
10-K


                                   
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, D.C. 20549

                               FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
   X      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

          For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994

                    OR

          TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
          OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
          ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

          For the transition period from ____________ to ____________

Commission      Registrant, State of Incorporation,    IRS Employer
File Number     Address of Principal Executive         Identification No.
                Offices and Telephone Number           

1-11299         ENTERGY CORPORATION                    13-5550175
                (a Delaware corporation)               
                639 Loyola Avenue                      
                New Orleans, Louisiana 70113           
                Telephone (504) 529-5262               
                                                       
1-10764         ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY         71-0005900
                (an Arkansas corporation)              
                425 West Capitol Avenue, 40th Floor    
                Little Rock, Arkansas 72201            
                Telephone (501) 377-4000               
                                                       
1-2703          GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY          74-0662730
                (a Texas corporation)                  
                350 Pine Street                        
                Beaumont, Texas  77701                 
                Telephone (409) 838-6631               
                                                       
1-8474          LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY        72-0245590
                (a Louisiana corporation)              
                639 Loyola Avenue                      
                New Orleans, Louisiana 70113           
                Telephone (504) 529-5262               
                                                       
0-320           MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY      64-0205830
                (a Mississippi corporation)            
                308 East Pearl Street                  
                Jackson, Mississippi 39201             
                Telephone (601) 969-2311               
                                                       
0-5807          NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.        72-0273040
                (a Louisiana corporation)              
                639 Loyola Avenue                      
                New Orleans, Louisiana 70113           
                Telephone (504) 529-5262               
                                                       
1-9067          SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.          72-0752777
                (an Arkansas corporation)              
                Echelon One                            
                1340 Echelon Parkway                   
                Jackson, Mississippi 39213             
                Telephone (601) 368-5000               




Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Registrant                        Title of Class

Arkansas Power & Light Company    Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $100 Par Value
                                  Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $25 Par Value
                                  Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $0.01 Par Value
                                  
Louisiana Power & Light Company   Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $100 Par Value
                                  Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $25 Par Value
                                  
Mississippi Power & Light Company Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $100 Par Value
                                  
New Orleans Public Service Inc.   Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $100 Par Value
                                  4 3/4% Preferred Stock, Cumulative, $100 Par
                                   Value




     Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934 during the preceding 12 months  (or  for  such
shorter  period  that  the  registrants were  required  to  file  such
reports),  and  (2) have been subject to such filing requirements  for
the past 90 days.  Yes X    No ____

      Indicate  by  check  mark  if disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant  to  Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and
will  not be contained, to the best of the registrants' knowledge,  in
definitive  proxy or information statements incorporated by  reference
in  Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   [
]

      The  aggregate market value of Entergy Corporation Common Stock,
$0.01 Par Value, held by non-affiliates, was $5.1 billion based on the
reported  last sale price of such stock on the New York Stock Exchange
on  February 28, 1995.  Entergy Corporation is the sole holder of  the
common  stock of Arkansas Power & Light Company, Gulf States Utilities
Company,  Louisiana Power & Light Company, Mississippi Power  &  Light
Company, New Orleans Public Service Inc., and System Energy Resources,
Inc.

                                   
                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                                   
      Portions  of  the Proxy Statement of Entergy Corporation  to  be
filed  in  connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders,  to  be
held May 26, 1995, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.



                                                              
                                                                       Page
                                                                      Number

Definitions                                                               i
Part I
     Item   1. Business                                                   1
     Item   2. Properties                                                53
     Item   3. Legal Proceedings                                         53
     Item   4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       53
Part II
     Item   5. Market for Registrants' Common Equity and Related
               Stockholder Matters                                       54
     Item   6. Selected Financial Data                                   55
     Item   7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
               Condition and Results of Operations                       55
     Item   8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data               56
     Item   9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure                      341
Part III
     Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants      341
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation                                   350
     Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
               and Management                                           359
     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions           363
Part IV
     Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
               on Form 8-K                                              364
Experts                                                                 365
Signatures                                                              366
Consents of Experts                                                     373
Reports of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedules     380
Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules           381
Index to Financial Statement Schedules                                  S-1
Exhibit Index                                                           E-1


This  combined  Form 10-K is separately filed by Entergy  Corporation,
Arkansas  Power  &  Light  Company,  Gulf  States  Utilities  Company,
Louisiana  Power & Light Company, Mississippi Power &  Light  Company,
New  Orleans  Public Service Inc., and System Energy  Resources,  Inc.
Information  contained  herein relating to any individual  company  is
filed  by  such  company  on its own behalf.  Each  company  makes  no
representation as to information relating to the other companies.

This  report (including the material incorporated herein by reference)
must be read in its entirety.  No one section of the report deals with
all aspects of the subject matter.
                                   
                              
                              
                              DEFINITIONS
                                   
      Certain abbreviations or acronyms used in the text and notes are
defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym            Term

AFUDC               Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

Algiers             15th Ward of the City of New Orleans, Louisiana

ALJ                 Administrative Law Judge

Alliance            Alliance for Affordable Energy, Inc.

ANO                 Arkansas   Nuclear   One   Steam   Electric
                    Generating Station (nuclear)

ANO 1               Unit No. 1 of ANO

ANO 2               Unit No. 2 of ANO

AP&L                Arkansas Power & Light Company

APSC                Arkansas Public Service Commission

Arkansas District 
 Court              United States District Court for the  Western
                    District of Arkansas

Availability 
 Agreement          Agreement,  dated as of June  21,  1974,  as
                    amended, among System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,
                    and NOPSI, and the assignments thereof

Cajun               Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.

Capital Funds 
 Agreement          Agreement,  dated as of June  21,  1974,  as
                    amended,   between  System  Energy   and   Entergy
                    Corporation, and the assignments thereof

CCLM                Customer-Controlled Load Management  (a  DSM
                    activity utilizing residential time-of-use rates)

City of New 
  Orleans or City   New Orleans, Louisiana

CounciL             Council  of the City  of  New  Orleans, Louisiana

D.C. Circuit        United States Court of Appeals for the District of
                    Columbia Circuit

DOE                 United States Department of Energy

DSM                 Demand-Side  Management  (Least  Cost  Plan
                    activities  that  influence electricity  usage  by
                    consumers)

Eighth Circuit      United  States  Court of Appeals  for  the  Eighth
                    Circuit

EPAct               Energy Policy Act of 1992

Entergy or System   Entergy Corporation and its various  direct  and
                    indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Corporation Entergy   Corporation,  a  Delaware   corporation,
                    successor   to  Entergy  Corporation,  a   Florida
                    corporation

Entergy Enterprises Entergy Enterprises, Inc.

Entergy Operations  Entergy Operations, Inc.

Entergy Power       Entergy Power, Inc.

Entergy Services    Entergy Services, Inc.

EPA                 Environmental Protection Agency

EWG                 Exempt Wholesale Generator

February 4 
  Resolution        The Resolution (including the Determinations
                    and  Order  referred to therein)  adopted  by  the
                    Council  on  February  4,  1988,  disallowing  the
                    recovery  by  NOPSI of $135 million of  previously
                    deferred Grand Gulf 1 related costs

FERC                Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Grand Gulf Station  Grand   Gulf  Steam  Electric  Generating  Station
                    (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 1        Unit No. 1 of the Grand Gulf Station (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2        Unit No. 2 of the Grand Gulf Station (nuclear)

GSU                 Gulf  States  Utilities  Company  (including
                    wholly  owned  subsidiaries - Varibus Corporation,
                    GSG&T,  Inc.,  Prudential Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  and
                    Southern Gulf Railway Company)

Holding Company 
 Act                Public  Utility Holding Company Act  of  1935,  as
                    amended
                    
Independence 
 Station            Independence   Steam  Electric   Generating
                    Station (coal)

Independence 2      Unit No. 2 of the Independence Station

IRS                 Internal Revenue Service

KV                  Kilovolts

KWH                 Kilowatt-Hour(s)

Least Cost Plan     Least  Cost  Integrated Resource Plan (combination
                    of demand- and supply-side resources to be used by
                    Entergy to satisfy electricity demand)

LP&L                Louisiana Power & Light Company

LPSC                Louisiana Public Service Commission

MCF                 1,000 cubic feet of gas

Merger              The combination transaction, consummated  on
                    December   31,  1993,  by  which  GSU   became   a
                    subsidiary  of  Entergy  Corporation  and  Entergy
                    Corporation became a Delaware corporation

MP&L                Mississippi Power & Light Company

MPSC                Mississippi Public Service Commission

MW                  Megawatt(s)

Nelson  Unit  6     Unit No. 6 (coal) of the Nelson Steam  Electric
                    Generating Station

NISCO               Nelson Industrial Steam Company

1986 NOPSI 
 Settlement         Settlement, effective March 25, 1986, between
                    NOPSI and the Council regarding NOPSI's Grand Gulf-
                    related rate issues

1991 NOPSI 
 Settlement         Settlement, retroactive to October 4,  1991,
                    among  NOPSI,  the Council, and the Alliance  that
                    settled  certain Grand Gulf 1 prudence issues  and
                    certain  litigation  related  to  the  February  4
                    Resolution

NOPSI               New Orleans Public Service Inc.

NRC                 Nuclear Regulatory Commission

PRP                 Potentially Responsible Party (a  person  or
                    entity that may be responsible for remediation  of
                    environmental contamination)

PUCT                Public Utility Commission of Texas

PURPA               Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act

Rate Cap            The  level of GSU's retail electric base rates  in
                    effect  at  December 31, 1993, for  the  Louisiana
                    retail jurisdiction, and the level in effect prior
                    to  the Texas Cities Rate Settlement for the Texas
                    retail jurisdiction, that may not be exceeded  for
                    the  five years following December 31, 1993

Reallocation 
 Agreement          1981  Agreement, superseded  in  part  by  a
                    June  13, 1985 decision of FERC, among AP&L, LP&L,
                    MP&L,  NOPSI,  and System Energy relating  to  the
                    sale  of  capacity and energy from the Grand  Gulf
                    Station

Ritchie 2           Unit  No.  2  of the R. E. Ritchie Steam  Electric
                    Generating Station (gas/oil)

River Bend          River   Bend  Steam  Electric  Generating  Station
                    (nuclear), owned 70% by GSU.

RUS                 Rural  Utility Services (formerly the  Rural
                    Electrification Administration or "REA")

SEC                 Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                Statement of Financial Accounting Standards,
                    promulgated by the Financial Accounting  Standards
                    Board

SRG&T               Sam Rayburn G&T, Inc.

SRMPA               Sam Rayburn Municipal Power Agency

System Agreement    Agreement, effective January 1, 1983, as modified,
                    among  the System operating companies relating  to
                    the sharing of generating capacity and other power
                    resources

System Energy       System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels        System Fuels, Inc.

System  operating  
 companies          AP&L, GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI, collectively

Unit Power Sales 
 Agreement          Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, as
                    amended  and  approved by FERC, among AP&L,  LP&L,
                    MP&L,  NOPSI, and System Energy, relating  to  the
                    sale  of  capacity and energy from System Energy's
                    share of Grand Gulf 1

Waterford  3        Unit  No.  3 (nuclear) of  the  Waterford  Steam
                    Electric Generating Station
                                   


                                PART I
                                   
Item 1.  Business

                          BUSINESS OF ENTERGY
                                   
General

     Entergy Corporation was originally incorporated under the laws of
the  State of Florida on May 27, 1949.  On December 31, 1993,  Entergy
Corporation  merged  with  and  into  Entergy-GSU  Holdings,  Inc.,  a
Delaware   corporation,  which  then  changed  its  name  to   Entergy
Corporation.   Entergy  Corporation is a  holding  company  registered
under  the  Holding  Company  Act and does  not  own  or  operate  any
significant physical properties.  Entergy Corporation owns all of  the
outstanding  common  stock of five retail operating  electric  utility
subsidiaries, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  AP&L was incorporated
under  the laws of the State of Arkansas in 1926; GSU was incorporated
under  the  laws  of the State of Texas in 1925; LP&L and  NOPSI  were
incorporated  under  the laws of the State of Louisiana  in  1974  and
1926,  respectively; and MP&L was incorporated under the laws  of  the
State  of  Mississippi  in  1963.  As  of  December  31,  1994,  these
operating   companies  provided  electric  service  to   approximately
2.4   million   customers  in  the  States  of  Arkansas,   Louisiana,
Mississippi,  Tennessee  and Texas.  In addition,  GSU  furnished  gas
service  in  the Baton Rouge, Louisiana area, and NOPSI furnished  gas
service  in the New Orleans, Louisiana area.  GSU produces and  sells,
on  an  unregulated  basis, process steam and  by-product  electricity
supplied  from  its  steam  electric  extraction  plant  to  a   large
industrial  customer.   The  business of  the  System  is  subject  to
seasonal fluctuations with the peak period occurring during the  third
quarter.   During 1994, the System's electricity sales as a percentage
of  total System energy sales were: residential - 26.9%; commercial  -
20.6%;  and industrial - 42.1%.  Electric revenues from these  sectors
as  a  percentage  of  total System electric revenues  were:  36.3%  -
residential;  25.6%  - commercial; and 31.3% - industrial.   Sales  to
governmental  and  municipal  sectors and to  nonaffiliated  utilities
accounted  for  the  balance  of energy  sales.   The  System's  major
industrial  customers  are  in  the  chemical  processing,   petroleum
refining, paper products, and food products industries.

     Entergy Corporation also owns all of the outstanding common stock
of System Energy, Entergy Services, Entergy Operations, Entergy Power,
and  Entergy  Enterprises.   System Energy  is  a  nuclear  generating
company  that was incorporated under the laws of the State of Arkansas
in  1974.   System Energy sells the capacity and energy  at  wholesale
from  its  90%  interest in Grand Gulf 1 to its only customers,  AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI (see "Capital Requirements and Future Financing
-  Certain System Financial and Support Agreements - Unit Power  Sales
Agreement," below).  System Energy has approximately a 78.5% ownership
interest  and  an 11.5% leasehold interest in Grand Gulf  1.   Entergy
Services,   a   Delaware  corporation,  provides  general   executive,
advisory,  administrative, accounting, legal, engineering,  and  other
services  to  the  System  companies,  generally  at  cost.    Entergy
Operations,  a  Delaware corporation, is a nuclear management  company
that  operates ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf 1, subject
to  the  owner  oversight  of  AP&L, GSU,  LP&L,  and  System  Energy,
respectively.    Entergy  Power,  a  Delaware   corporation,   is   an
independent power producer that owns 809 MW of generating capacity and
markets  its  capacity  and  energy in the  wholesale  market  outside
Arkansas and Missouri and in markets not otherwise presently served by
the  System.   (For  further  information  on  regulatory  proceedings
related  to  Entergy Power, see "Rate Matters and  Regulation  -  Rate
Matters  -  Wholesale Rate Matters - Entergy Power," below).   Entergy
Enterprises  is a nonutility company incorporated under  Delaware  law
that  investigates  and  develops energy-related  projects  and  other
businesses  whose products and activities are or may be of benefit  to
the  System's  utility business (see "Corporate Development,"  below).
Entergy   Enterprises  also  markets  outside  the  System   technical
expertise,  products, and services developed by the  System  companies
that have commercial value beyond their use in the System's operations
and  provides services to certain nonutility companies in the  System.
Entergy  Corporation has formed subsidiaries to participate in utility
projects  located outside the System's retail service territory,  both
domestically  and  in foreign countries (see "Corporate  Development,"
below).

      AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI own  35%,  33%,  19%,  and  13%,
respectively,  of all the common stock of System Fuels,  a  non-profit
subsidiary incorporated in Louisiana that implements and/or  maintains
certain programs to procure, deliver, and store fuel supplies for  the
System.

      GSU  has  four  wholly-owned subsidiaries: Varibus  Corporation,
GSG&T, Inc., Southern Gulf Railway Company, and Prudential Oil &  Gas,
Inc.   Varibus  Corporation  operates  intrastate  gas  pipelines   in
Louisiana, which are used primarily to transport fuel to two of  GSU's
generating stations.  GSG&T, Inc. owns the Lewis Creek Station, a gas-
fired  generating  plant,  which is leased to  and  operated  by  GSU.
Southern  Gulf Railway Company owns and will operate several miles  of
rail  track  being  constructed  in  Louisiana  for  the  purpose   of
transporting  coal  for  use  as  a boiler  fuel  at  Nelson  Unit  6.
Prudential  Oil  & Gas, Inc., which was formerly in  the  business  of
exploring, developing, and operating oil and gas properties  in  Texas
and Louisiana, is presently inactive.

Entergy Corporation-GSU Merger

      On  December  31, 1993, GSU became a wholly-owned subsidiary  of
Entergy  Corporation.  As consideration to GSU's shareholders, Entergy
Corporation paid $250 million in cash and issued 56,695,724 shares  of
its  common  stock, based upon a valuation of $35.8417 per  share,  in
exchange  for  outstanding  shares of GSU  common  stock.   See  "Rate
Matters   and   Regulation  -  Regulation  -  Other   Regulation   and
Litigation," for information on requests for rehearing and appeals  of
certain regulatory approvals of the Merger.

      Unless  otherwise noted, consolidated financial and  statistical
information contained in this report for the years ended December  31,
1994 and 1993 (such as assets, liabilities, and property) includes the
associated   GSU  amounts.   Consolidated  financial  and  statistical
information (such as revenues, sales, and expenses) for the year ended
December  31,  1994  includes such GSU amounts, while  periods  ending
before  January 1, 1994 do not include GSU amounts; those amounts  are
presented separately for GSU herein.

Certain Industry and System Challenges

      The  System's  business  is affected by various  challenges  and
issues including those that confront the electric utility industry  in
general.  These issues and challenges include:

  -     an    increasingly   competitive   environment   (see
        "Competition," below);

  -     adaptation  to  structural  changes  in  the  electric
        utility  industry and changes in the regulation of  generation
        and  transmission of electricity (see "Competition -  General"
        below);

  -     continued cost management (particularly in the area  of
        operation  and maintenance costs at nuclear units) to  improve
        financial  results and to minimize or eliminate the  need  for
        rate   increase   requests  and,  to  the   extent   possible,
        accommodate  rate  reductions while maintaining  profitability
        (see  "Rate  Matters and Regulation - Rate  Matters  -  Retail
        Rate Matters," below);

  -     achieving cost savings anticipated with the Merger;

  -     compliance with regulatory requirements with respect to
        nuclear  operations  (see  "Rate  Matters  and  Regulation   -
        Regulation  -  Regulation  of  the  Nuclear  Power  Industry,"
        below)  and  environmental  matters  (see  "Rate  Matters  and
        Regulation - Regulation - Environmental Regulation," below);

  -     achieving  enhanced earnings despite  lower  authorized
        returns and slow growth in the domestic utility business  (see
        "Corporate Development," below);
  
  -     resolving   GSU's   major   contingencies,   including
        potential  write-offs and refunds related to River  Bend  (see
        "Rate  Matters  and Regulation - Rate Matters  -  Retail  Rate
        Matters - GSU," below), litigation with Cajun relating to  its
        ownership  interest  in  River Bend,  and  Cajun's  bankruptcy
        proceedings  (see "Rate Matters and Regulation - Regulation  -
        Other Regulation and Litigation - GSU," below); and

  -     the  implementation of a proposed  accounting  standard
        that   describes  the  circumstances  in  which   assets   are
        determined to be impaired, which may eventually be applied  to
        stranded   investments  as  discussed  below.   (see   Entergy
        Corporation   and   Subsidiaries'   "Management's    Financial
        Discussion  and  Analysis  -  Significant  Factors  and  Known
        Trends").

Corporate Development

     Entergy Corporation continues to consider opportunities to expand
its  utility and utility related businesses that are not regulated  by
state  and  local  regulatory  authorities (nonregulated  businesses).
Entergy Corporation's investment strategy is to invest in nonregulated
business opportunities that have the potential to earn a greater  rate
of   return  than  its  regulated  utility  operations,  and   Entergy
Corporation may invest up to approximately $150 million per  year  for
the   next   several   years  in  nonregulated  businesses.    Entergy
Corporation's  nonregulated businesses currently fall into  two  broad
categories:  power  development  and new  technology  related  to  the
utility business.  Entergy Corporation made investments in Argentina's
and Pakistan's electric energy infrastructure, as described below, and
is  pursuing  additional projects in North America,  Central  America,
South America, Europe, and Asia.  Entergy Corporation opened an office
in  Hong Kong in 1994 and expects to open offices in South America and
Europe  in  1995.   Entergy  Corporation is negotiating  in  China  to
participate  in  two  power generation projects, Datong  and  Taishan,
which  are  expected to receive final approval in 1995 or  1996.   The
Datong and Taishan projects involve the expansion of an existing coal-
fired  plant  and  construction of additional coal-fired  plants.   To
date,  Entergy  Corporation has made no investment in these  projects;
however,  Entergy  Corporation's share of  these  projects  may  total
approximately  $115  million.   In addition,  Entergy  Corporation  is
exploring the possibility to provide telecommunications services  that
allow customers to control energy usage.

      Current  investments  in  nonregulated  businesses  include  the
following:


           (1)   In  1990, Entergy Power purchased from AP&L  100%  of
     Ritchie  2  and  31  1/2% of Independence 2.   Entergy  Power  is
     currently selling capacity and energy from both plants.   Entergy
     Corporation originally financed Entergy Power principally with  a
     note between itself and Entergy Power.  This note is scheduled to
     expire  on  June  30, 1995.  As of December 31, 1994,  this  note
     amounted  to  $221.5 million.  In 1994, Entergy Power  requested,
     but  has  not yet received, authorization from the SEC to convert
     amounts  outstanding under the note plus accrued  interest  to  a
     capital contribution.
     
            (2)    Entergy  Corporation's  subsidiary,  Entergy  Power
     Development Corporation an EWG under the provisions of the EPAct,
     through its subsidiary, Entergy Richmond Power Corporation (which
     is  also  an  EWG),  owns a 50% interest in an independent  power
     plant  in  Richmond, Virginia.  The power plant is  jointly-owned
     and  operated by the Enron Power Corporation (Enron), a developer
     of  independent power projects.  The plant has a 25-year contract
     to sell electricity to Virginia Electric & Power Company (VEPCO).
     Entergy   Corporation's   investment  in   the   project   totals
     approximately  $13.5  million.   Entergy  Corporation  has   been
     notified by Enron that, prior to 1994, the facility did  not  met
     the  FERC efficiency test to maintain qualifying facility  status
     as required by the contract with VEPCO.  Enron has indicated that
     the  facility has met the test in 1994. The failure to  meet  the
     test  prior  to  1994 could result in a default under  the  VEPCO
     contract.   However,  Entergy Richmond Power Corporation,  Enron,
     and  VEPCO  are currently involved in negotiations to  amend  the
     contract to resolve this issue.
     
          (3)  Entergy Enterprises has a 7.9% equity interest in First
     Pacific Networks, Inc. (FPN), a communications company, and has a
     license  from  FPN in connection with utility applications  being
     jointly  developed  by Entergy Enterprises  and  FPN,  for  FPN's
     patented   communications   technology.    Entergy   Enterprises'
     investment  in FPN is approximately $11.8 million, of which  $9.5
     million is equity investment.
     
           (4)   Entergy Enterprises' subsidiary, Entergy Systems  and
     Service,  Inc. (Entergy SASI), holds a 9.95% equity  interest  in
     Systems and Service International, Inc. (SASI), a manufacturer of
     efficient  lighting  products.   Entergy  SASI  distributes  such
     products  in conjunction with providing various energy management
     services  to  its customers.  Entergy SASI also made  a  loan  to
     SASI,  acquired  the  business and assets of SASI's  distribution
     subsidiary,  and  entered into an agreement to distribute  SASI's
     products.   Entergy Enterprises' investment in  Entergy  SASI  is
     approximately $13.5 million of which $2.3 million is invested  in
     SASI  common stock.  Entergy Corporation has provided to  Entergy
     SASI  $72.3  million in loans, as of December 31, 1994,  to  fund
     Entergy SASI's installment sale agreements with its customers.
     
            (5)   Entergy  Corporation's  subsidiary,  Entergy,  S.A.,
     participated  in a consortium with other nonaffiliated  companies
     that  acquired  a  60%  interest in Argentina's  Costanera  steam
     electric generating facility consisting of seven natural gas- and
     oil-fired  generating units, with a total installed  capacity  of
     1,260  MW.   Entergy Corporation's initial investment to  acquire
     its   10%   interest   in   the  consortium   was   approximately
     $10.5  million  and  its maximum financial  obligation  currently
     authorized  by  the  SEC in connection with  this  investment  is
     $22.5 million.
     
           (6)  Entergy Corporation, through two subsidiaries, Entergy
     Argentina,  S.A., and Entergy Argentina, S.A. Ltd.,  participated
     in  a consortium with other nonaffiliated companies that acquired
     a  51%  interest  in  a  foreign  electric  distribution  company
     providing   service   to   Buenos  Aires,   Argentina.    Entergy
     Corporation's initial investment to acquire its 10%  interest  in
     the  consortium was approximately $58.2 million and  its  maximum
     financial   obligation  currently  authorized  by  the   SEC   in
     connection with this investment is $77.5 million.
     
           (7)   Entergy Corporation, through its subsidiary,  Entergy
     Transener,   S.A.,  participated  in  a  consortium  with   other
     nonaffiliated companies that acquired a 65% interest in a foreign
     transmission  system  providing service  in  Argentina.   Entergy
     Corporation's   initial   investment   in   the   project  totals
     approximately   $20.5   million.       Depending     upon     the
     consortium's  ability to continue its financing of a  portion  of
     its  investment  in the transmission system, Entergy  Corporation
     could  be  required  in  1995  to  increase  its  investment   by
     approximately $9 million.
     
          (8)  In 1994, Entergy Corporation, through a new subsidiary,
     Entergy Pakistan, Ltd., acquired a 10% interest in the Hub  River
     steam electric generating facility under development in Pakistan.
     Entergy  Corporation's  initial investment  to  acquire  its  10%
     interest in the consortium was $50.2 million.
     
      In  1994, Entergy Corporation's nonregulated investments reduced
consolidated net income by approximately $31.7 million.  In  the  near
term,  these  investments are unlikely to have a  positive  effect  on
Entergy  Corporation's earnings; but management  believes  that  these
investments   will  contribute  to  future  earnings  growth.    These
investments  may  involve  a  higher  degree  of  risk  than  domestic
regulated utility enterprises.

      International  operations are subject to the risks  inherent  in
conducting  business  abroad,  including possible  nationalization  or
expropriation,  price  and exchange controls, limitations  on  foreign
participation in local governmental enterprises, and other restrictive
actions.  Changes in the relative value of currencies take place  from
time  to  time  and their effects may be favorable or  unfavorable  on
results  of  operations.   In  addition, there  are  exchange  control
restrictions   in  certain  countries  relating  to  repatriation   of
earnings.

Selected Data

      Selected customer and sales data for 1994 are summarized in  the
following tables:

                     1994 - Selected Customer Data

                                                          Customers as of
                                                          December 31, 1994
                             Area Served                Electric       Gas
    AP&L       Portions of Arkansas                       599,702        -
    GSU        Portions of Texas and Louisiana            595,348     86,416
    LP&L       Portions of Louisiana                      607,002        -
    MP&L       Portions of Mississippi                    367,692        -
    NOPSI      City of New Orleans, except Algiers, which
                 is provided electric service by LP&L     189,836    153,259
                                                        ---------    -------   
    System                                              2,359,580    239,675
                                                        =========    =======   
                                   
              1994 - Selected Electric Energy Sales Data


      NOPSI sold 16,982,648 MCF of natural gas to retail customers  in
1994.   Revenues  from natural gas operations for each  of  the  three
years  in the period ended December 31, 1994 were material for  NOPSI,
but  not material for the System (see "Industry Segments" below for  a
description of NOPSI's business segments).

      GSU  sold  6,967,018 MCF of natural gas to retail  customers  in
1994.   Revenues  from natural gas operations for each  of  the  three
years in the period ended December 31, 1994 were not material for GSU.

     See "Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Selected Financial Data
-  Five-Year  Comparison," and "Selected Financial  Data  -  Five-Year
Comparison of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI and System Energy,"  (which
follow  each  company's  notes  to financial  statements  herein)  for
further information with respect to operating statistics.

Employees

      As  of  December  31,  1994,  Entergy  had 16,037  employees  as
follows:

      Full-time:                    
      Entergy Corporation                     -
      AP&L                                2,423
      GSU                                 2,656
      LP&L                                1,539
      MP&L                                1,186
      NOPSI                                 660
      System Energy                           -
      Entergy Operations                  4,313
      Entergy Services                    2,631
      Other Subsidiaries                    494
                                         ------
       Total Full-time                   15,902
      Part-time                             135
                                         ------
       Total Entergy System              16,037
                                         ======
Competition

       General.   Entergy  and  the  electric  utility  industry   are
experiencing increased competitive pressures in both  the  retail  and
wholesale markets.  The economic, social, and political forces  behind
these  competitive pressures are numerous and complex. These pressures
include  legislative  and regulatory changes, technological  advances,
consumer  demands, greater availability of natural gas,  environmental
needs,   and  other  factors.   These  competitive  pressures  present
opportunities to compete for new customers, as well as risks for  loss
of customers.

      On  October  24,  1992, Congress passed the  EPAct.   The  EPAct
addresses a wide range of energy issues and alters the way Entergy and
the  rest of the electric utility industry will operate in the future.
The EPAct creates exemptions from regulation under the Holding Company
Act  and creates a class of EWG's consisting of utility affiliates and
nonutilities  that own and operate facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC  the  authority to order investor-owned utilities, including  the
System  operating companies, to transmit power and energy  to  or  for
wholesale  purchasers and sellers.   This creates  the  potential  for
electric utilities and other power producers to gain increased  access
to  the transmission systems of other entities to facilitate wholesale
sales.   FERC  may also require electric utilities to  increase  their
transmission capacity to provide these services.  The System operating
companies jointly filed open access transmission service tariffs  with
FERC,  and  subsequent  modifications to such tariffs  were  filed  in
October  1994  in  order to bring the companies into  compliance  with
FERC's  evolving  "comparability"  standard  for  transmission.    For
further information, see "Rate Matters and Regulation - Rate Matters -
Wholesale Rate Matters," below.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
area  of service, is also evolving.  Over a dozen states have been  or
are  studying the concept of retail competition.  In April  1994,  the
state of Michigan initiated a five-year experiment that allows limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  proposal  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  FERC  issued  a  notice  of  proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

     Wholesale Competition.   Entergy, like other utility systems, has
generating capacity and energy available from time to time for sale to
other  utility  systems.  Entergy Power owns  809  MW  of   generating
capacity,  and  the  first priority of use for this  capacity  is  for
wholesale  sales.  The System operating companies may use energy  from
Entergy  Power's  capacity  for native  load  needs  if  no  wholesale
transactions  have been scheduled.  The System is in competition  with
other  utilities to sell capacity and energy.  Given this competition,
the  ability  of  the  System to sell capacity  and  energy  to  other
utilities is limited.  However, in 1994, the System sold 7,908 million
KWH of energy (compared to 8,291 million KWH in 1993) to nonaffiliated
utilities.   The  System  also sold 1,213  MW  of  long-term  capacity
(compared  to 1,234 MW in 1993) to nonaffiliated utilities outside  of
the  area served by the System.  These capacity sales represent 6%  of
the System's net capability at year-end 1994.  Under AP&L's and LP&L's
Grand  Gulf  1 rate orders, and under GSU's River Bend rate  order  in
Louisiana,  a portion of the capacity of Grand Gulf 1 and  River  Bend
represents  capacity that is available for sale, subject to regulatory
approval, to nonaffiliated parties.  In some cases, profits from  such
sales must be shared between ratepayers and shareholders.

      As  discussed in "Rate Matters and Regulation - Rate  Matters  -
Wholesale  Rate  Matters - Open Access Transmission,"  below,  Entergy
Power  and the System operating companies have been permitted by  FERC
to  make wholesale capacity sales in bulk power markets at rates based
primarily upon negotiation and market conditions rather than  cost  of
service.  In order to receive authorization to make such sales,  AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L,  and NOPSI also filed with FERC open access  transmission
service  tariffs.   FERC  approved this  filing,  subject  to  certain
modifications.  Revisions to the tariffs were filed in  December  1993
to recognize GSU's inclusion in the Entergy System.  On July 12, 1994,
the  D.C.  Circuit  issued an opinion finding that FERC's  failure  to
conduct   an   evidentiary  hearing  with  respect  to  the   proposed
transmission tariffs and related matters was arbitrary and capricious,
and  that  FERC failed to adequately explain its approval  of  certain
provisions  in the tariffs, including a provision allowing Entergy  to
seek  recovery  in  transmission rates of "stranded investment"  costs
resulting  from the provision of transmission service.  The  case  was
remanded  to  FERC  for  further proceedings.  On  October  31,  1994,
Entergy  Services  filed revised transmission  tariffs  with  FERC  in
response  to  the D.C. Circuit's remand.  These tariffs  provide  both
point-to-point and network transmission services and are  intended  to
provide  "comparability  of  service" over  the  Entergy  transmission
network.   On  January  6, 1995, FERC issued an  order  accepting  the
tariffs  for filing and making them effective, subject to refund.   On
January  25, 1995, Entergy Services filed revised transmission tariffs
in  response to FERC's order.  In addition, FERC set Entergy's  market
pricing  authority for investigation, thereby making Entergy's  market
price  rate  schedules  subject  to refund.   The  market  price  rate
investigation  has  been  deferred by FERC  until  conclusion  of  the
transmission  tariff case, and an order is expected to  be  issued  no
later  than  January 15, 1997.  It is anticipated that  these  tariffs
will  enable any electric utility (as defined in such tariffs) to  use
Entergy  `s  integrated transmission system for  the  transmission  of
capacity and energy produced and sold by such electric utility  or  by
third  parties.  Other similar open access transmission  tariffs  have
also  been  filed  with  FERC by several large  utility  companies  or
systems  and  more  open access transmission tariffs are  anticipated.
Concurrently, capacity resources are being developed and used to  make
wholesale  sales  from a range of non-traditional  sources,  including
nonutility  generators  as  well  as  cogenerators  and  small   power
producers qualifying under PURPA.

      These  developments  simultaneously produce increased  marketing
opportunities  for  utility systems such as  Entergy  and  expose  the
System  to  loss of load or reduced sales revenues due to displacement
of  System sales by alternative suppliers with access to the  System's
primary  areas of service.  Entergy Power was formed to  compete  with
other  utilities  and independent power producers in  the  bulk  power
market.  As of December 31, 1994, Entergy Power has accumulated  total
losses  from operations of  $67.1 million.  Entergy Power has  entered
into  several  long-term  contracts  for  the  sale  of  capacity  and
associated  energy  from its resources and has  also  made  short-term
capacity  and energy sales.  In 1994, Entergy Power sold  460  million
KWH of energy to nonaffiliated utilities, and sold 332 MW of capacity,
at  the  time of the Entergy system peak, to nonaffiliated  utilities.
Entergy  Power actively markets its capacity and energy  in  the  bulk
power  market.  The System operating companies and Entergy Power  have
separate  marketing staffs and may on occasion compete  for  the  same
bulk  power sale opportunities.  (See "Corporate Development,"  above,
for  information with respect to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy,
Entergy  Power Development Corporation, organized as an EWG to compete
in the wholesale power market.)

      Retail  Competition.   Many of Entergy's  industrial  customers,
whose   costs   of  production  are  energy-sensitive,   have   energy
alternatives  such  as  fuel switching, cogeneration,  and  production
shifting.   Entergy   is constantly working with  these  customers  to
address  their  needs.   It is the practice of  the  System  operating
companies  to negotiate the renewal of contracts with large industrial
customers  prior to their expiration.  In certain cases  (particularly
for  GSU), contracts or special tariffs that use flexible pricing have
been  negotiated with industrial customers to keep these customers  on
the  System.   These contracts and tariffs have generally resulted  in
increased KWH sales at lower margins over incremental cost.  While the
System  operating  companies anticipate they  will  be  successful  in
renegotiating such contracts, there can be no assurance that they will
be  successful or that future revenues will not be lost to other forms
of  generation.  Since PURPA was enacted in 1978, the System operating
companies  have been largely successful in retaining industrial  load.
This competitive challenge will likely increase.

      Cogeneration is generally defined as the combined production  of
electricity  and  some  other useful form of  heat,  typically  steam.
Cogenerated  power  may be either sold by its producer  to  the  local
utility  at  its  avoided  cost under PURPA, and/or  utilized  by  the
cogenerator  to displace purchases from the utility.   To  the  extent
that  cogeneration is used by industrial customers to meet  their  own
power  requirements,  the System may suffer loss of  industrial  load.
Cogenerated  power  delivered  to the System  would  be  purchased  at
avoided cost, which for a number of years is expected to be equivalent
to  avoided  energy  cost, and, as such, the cost of  these  purchases
would   not  impact  earnings.   To  date,  only  a  few  cogeneration
facilities  have  been  installed  in  areas  served  by  the  System,
excluding the GSU area of service.  Since PURPA was enacted  in  1978,
the  primary purpose of these facilities is to displace power that was
purchased from the System.  The economic advantage to the customer  is
generally due to the customer having waste products that can  be  used
as  fuel  and/or customers that have an attractive electrical  thermal
ratio.  Presently, the loss of load to cogeneration and the amount  of
cogenerated  power  delivered  under  PURPA  to  the  System  are  not
significant, except in GSU's area of service.  The System is  prepared
to  participate (subject to regulatory approval) in various phases  of
the  design,  construction, procurement, and ownership of cogeneration
facilities.  The System has entered into several cogeneration deferral
agreements with certain of its retail customers, which give the System
the  right  of first refusal to participate in any of such  customers'
cogeneration activities.  Such participation could occur in the  event
there  are individual customers whose long-term interests, along  with
Entergy's,  can best be served by installing cogeneration  facilities.
No such participation has occurred to date, except by GSU.

      Existing  qualifying facilities in GSU's  area  of  service  are
estimated  to  total approximately 2,400 MWs or over 10% of  Entergy's
total  owned and leased generating capability as of December 31, 1994.
GSU  believes  that no significant load will be lost  to  cogeneration
projects  during  the next several years; however,  GSU  is  currently
negotiating  with  a  large  industrial  customer  whose  contract  is
scheduled  to  expire in 1997.  If the contract is  not  renewed,  GSU
would lose approximately $40 million in annual base revenues.
      
      Although  GSU  has competed in the past for various  retail  and
wholesale  customers, the System is not otherwise generally in  direct
competition   with   privately-owned  or  municipally-owned   electric
utilities  for retail sales. A few municipalities within the  area  of
service  of  the  System  operating companies  distribute  electricity
within  their  corporate  limits  and  some  of  these  municipalities
generate all or a portion of their requirements.  A number of electric
cooperative associations or corporations serve a substantial number of
retail  customers  in  or  adjacent to  areas  served  by  the  System
operating  companies.  Sales of energy by the System to privately-  or
municipally-owned utilities amounted to approximately  3.3%  of  total
System energy sales in 1994.  As noted above, municipalities in  other
areas  of the country are seeking to expand their customers bases,  to
find   alternate  sources  of  electricity,  and/or  to  set  up   new
distribution systems.

      Legislatures and regulatory commissions in several  states  have
considered,  or  are  considering, retail wheeling.   Retail  wheeling
would  permit  retail customers to purchase electric  capacity  and/or
energy  from  the electric utility in whose area of service  they  are
located  or  from  other  electric  utilities  or  independent   power
producers.   Retail  wheeling  is not currently  required  within  the
Entergy System's area of service.  See "Rate Matters and Regulation  -
Regulation  - Other Regulation and Litigation," below for  information
on proceedings brought by Cajun seeking transmission access to certain
of GSU's industrial customers.

      Least Cost Planning.  The System continues to pursue least  cost
planning,  also  known as integrated resource planning,  in  order  to
compete more effectively in both retail and wholesale markets.   Least
cost  planning  is the development of strategies to add  resources  to
meet  future  electricity demands reliably and at the lowest  possible
cost.   The least cost planning process includes the study of electric
supply-  and demand-side options.  The resulting plan uses demand-side
options,  such  as  changing customer consumption patterns,  to  limit
electricity usage during times of peak demand, thus delaying the  need
for  new capacity resources.  Least cost planning offers the potential
for  the  System  to  minimize  customer  costs,  while  providing  an
opportunity to earn a return.

      On  December 1, 1992, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI each  filed  a
Least  Cost Plan with its respective regulator, and on July  1,  1993,
each   company  filed  a  refined  action  plan  with  its  respective
regulator.   Each  Least  Cost Plan detailed the  resources  that  the
System intended to use to provide reasonably priced, reliable electric
service  to its customers over the next 20 years.  Such plans included
925   MW  of  DSM  resources,  such  as  programs  for  efficient  air
conditioning  and heating, high efficiency lighting,  and  CCLM.   The
plans  also  included  significant resource  additions,  but  did  not
contemplate  construction  of  any  new  generating  facilities.   All
incremental  supply-side  resources would  come  from  either  delayed
retirements  or  repowering of existing generating units.  Each  Least
Cost  Plan  included specific actions that the System would  undertake
pursuant  to  regulatory approval, including  the  recovery  of  costs
associated with DSM.

      In  1994, the System substantially revised the approach to least
cost planning that was used to prepare the above December 1, 1992  and
July  1, 1993 filings made with the APSC, LPSC, MPSC, and the Council.
At  MP&L's  request, the MPSC dismissed MP&L's Least Cost Plan  filing
without prejudice.  AP&L and LP&L have requested that their respective
retail  regulators  allow the withdrawal of their  Least  Cost  Plans.
Furthermore,  AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI have requested  that  their
retail  regulators  allow for significant changes  in  the  integrated
planning process and filings.

      The  System  remains committed to employing integrated  resource
planning tools.  However, the increasingly competitive nature  of  the
market  place  for electric services mandates changes in the  planning
process.  First, the System has indicated that it intends to  use  the
Ratepayer Impact Measure (RIM) as the screening criterion for all  DSM
programs,  including  those DSM measures targeted  at  strategic  load
growth.   This  criterion was adopted because programs selected  under
this  screen  will minimize the rate impacts of any  programs  on  all
customers.   Second, the System has indicated that it  will  not  seek
special rate treatment, such as rate riders, for the costs of programs
or  to  compensate for lost revenues as a result of DSM  for  programs
selected  using the RIM criterion.  Finally, the System has  indicated
that  it  will  file  with  the retail regulators,  for  informational
purposes  only,  a  revised integrated resource  plan  in  the  fourth
quarter  of  1995  (for  further information, see  "Rate  Matters  and
Regulation - Rate Matters - Retail Rate Matters," below).
               
               
               
               CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND FUTURE FINANCING
                                   

      Construction  expenditures by company  (including  environmental
expenditures,  which are immaterial, and AFUDC, but excluding  nuclear
fuel) for the period 1995-1997 are estimated as follows:

                         1995     1996    1997     Total
                                (In Millions)
                                                           
      AP&L               $155     $155    $155    $  465
      GSU                 177      177     177       531
      LP&L                115      115     115       345
      MP&L                 68       68      68       204
      NOPSI                29       29      29        87
      System Energy        22       22      19        63
      Entergy Power         2        2       2         6
                         ----     ----    ----    ------
         System          $568     $568    $565    $1,701
                         ====     ====    ====    ======
     No significant construction costs are expected in connection with
the  System's  generating facilities.  Actual construction  costs  may
vary  from  these estimates because of a number of factors,  including
changes   in   load   growth  estimates,  changes   in   environmental
regulations,  modifications  to  nuclear  units  to  meet   regulatory
requirements, increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials,  and
cost of capital.

       In  addition  to  construction  expenditure  requirements,  the
estimated  amounts required during 1995-1997 to meet  scheduled  long-
term  debt  and  preferred  stock maturities  and  cash  sinking  fund
requirements are: AP&L - $107 million; GSU - $375 million; LP&L - $160
million; MP&L - $253 million; NOPSI - $93 million; and System Energy -
$365  million.  A substantial portion of these capital and refinancing
requirements  is  expected to be satisfied from  internally  generated
funds  and  cash  on hand, supplemented by the issuance  of  debt  and
preferred stock.  Certain System companies may also continue with  the
acquisition   or  refinancing  of  all,  or  a  portion  of,   certain
outstanding series of preferred stock and long-term debt in  order  to
achieve cost savings.

     Entergy Corporation's current primary capital requirements are to
invest  periodically in, or make loans to, its subsidiaries.   Entergy
Corporation  has SEC authorization to make additional  investments  in
Entergy  Power,  Entergy S.A., and Entergy Argentina,  S.A.,  and  has
applied  for authorization to make additional investments in   Entergy
SASI  and  Entergy Enterprises.  Entergy Corporation expects  to  meet
these  capital  requirements in 1995-1997  with  internally  generated
funds  and  cash  on  hand.  Entergy receives funds  through  dividend
distributions from its subsidiaries.  Certain restrictions  may  limit
the  amount  of  these  distributions.  See  Entergy  Corporation  and
Subsidiaries'  Notes  to Consolidated Financial  Statements,  Note  2,
"Rate   and   Regulatory  Matters"  and  Note  8,   "Commitments   and
Contingencies,"  regarding  River  Bend  rate  appeals   and   pending
litigation  with  Cajun.  Substantial write-offs or charges  resulting
from  adverse  rulings in these matters could adversely  affect  GSU's
ability to continue to pay dividends.

      Entergy  Corporation continues to consider new opportunities  to
expand  its electric energy business, including expansion into related
nonregulated  businesses.   Entergy  Corporation  may  invest  up   to
approximately  $150 million per year over the next  several  years  in
nonregulated business opportunities.  Entergy Corporation  expects  to
fund  these investments using internally generated funds and  cash  on
hand   Also,  Entergy Corporation may repurchase, from time  to  time,
shares  of its outstanding common stock.  Market conditions and  board
authorization   determine   the  amount   of   repurchases.    Entergy
Corporation has requested, but has not yet received, SEC authorization
for  a $300 million bank line of credit, the proceeds of which may  be
used for common stock repurchases and other investment activities.  In
addition,  Entergy  Corporation's non-regulated  businesses  may  seek
external  financing,  subject to receipt of any  necessary  regulatory
approval.

       (For   further  information  on  the  capital  and  refinancing
requirements, capital resources, and short-term borrowing arrangements
of  AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy,  respectively,
refer  in  each  case to AP&L's, GSU's, LP&L's, MP&L's,  NOPSI's,  and
System  Energy's  "Management's Financial Discussion  and  Analysis  -
Liquidity  and  Capital Resources," Note 4 of AP&L's,  GSU's,  LP&L's,
MP&L's,  NOPSI's,  and System Energy's Notes to Financial  Statements,
"Lines of Credit and Related Borrowings," Note 5 of AP&L's and NOPSI's
Notes  to  Financial Statements, "Preferred Stock," Note  5  of  GSU's
Notes  to  Financial  Statements, "Preferred,  Preference  and  Common
Stock,"  Note  5  of LP&L's and MP&L's Notes to Financial  Statements,
"Preferred and Common Stock," Note 6 of AP&L's, GSU's, LP&L's, MP&L's,
and  NOPSI's  and  Note  5  of  System  Energy's  Notes  to  Financial
Statements,  "Long-Term  Debt," and Note 8 of AP&L's,  GSU's,  LP&L's,
MP&L's,  and NOPSI's and Note 7 of System Energy's Notes to  Financial
Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies - Capital Requirements  and
Financing."   For further information concerning Entergy Corporation's
capital  requirements and resources, refer to Entergy Corporation  and
Subsidiaries'  "Management's  Financial  Discussion  and  Analysis   -
Liquidity  and  Capital Resources," and Note 4 of Entergy  Corporation
and  Subsidiaries' Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  "Lines
of Credit and Related Borrowings.")

Certain System Financial and Support Agreements

      Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement.  The Unit Power  Sales  Agreement
allocates  capacity and energy from System Energy's 90% ownership  and
leasehold interests in Grand Gulf 1 (and the costs related thereto) to
AP&L  (36%),  LP&L  (14%), MP&L (33%), and NOPSI (17%),  respectively.
AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and NOPSI pay rates to System  Energy  for  their
respective  entitlements of capacity and energy  on  a  full  cost-of-
service basis regardless of the quantity of energy delivered, so  long
as  Grand Gulf 1 remains in commercial operation.  Payments under  the
Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  are  System  Energy's  only  source  of
operating revenues.  The financial condition of System Energy  depends
upon  the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf 1 and upon  the
receipt  of  payments from AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI.   (See  "Rate
Matters  and  Regulation  - Rate Matters - Wholesale  Rate  Matters  -
System  Energy,"  below  for  further  information  with  respect   to
proceedings relating to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.)

      Availability Agreement.  The Availability Agreement was  entered
into  among System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI in  1974  in
connection  with  the financing by System Energy  of  the  Grand  Gulf
Station.  The agreement provided that System Energy would join in  the
agreement  among  AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI  for  the  sharing  of
generating  capacity  and other capacity and energy  resources  on  or
before  the  date  on  which  Grand Gulf 1 was  placed  in  commercial
operation.   It also provided that System Energy would make  available
to  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI all capacity and energy available from
System  Energy's share of the Grand Gulf Station.  System  Energy  and
AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI further agreed that if the  Availability
Agreement  were terminated, or if any of the parties thereto  withdrew
from it, then System Energy would enter into a separate agreement with
all  such  parties or the withdrawing party, as the case may be,  with
respect to the purchase of capacity and energy on the same terms as if
the Availability Agreement were still controlling.

      AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI also agreed severally to pay System
Energy  monthly for the right to receive capacity and energy available
from the Grand Gulf Station in amounts that (when added to any amounts
received  by  System Energy under the Unit Power Sales  Agreement,  or
otherwise) would be at least equal to System Energy's total  operating
expenses  for  the  Grand Gulf Station (including  depreciation  at  a
specified rate) and interest charges.

     As amended to date, the Availability Agreement provides that:

  -    the  obligations  of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI  for
       payments  for  Grand  Gulf 1 became effective  upon  commercial
       operation of Grand Gulf 1 on July 1, 1985;

  -    the  sale of capacity and energy generated by the Grand
       Gulf  Station  may  be  governed by a separate  power  purchase
       agreement among System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI;

  -    the   September  1989  write-off  of  System  Energy's
       investment  in  Grand Gulf 2, amounting to  approximately  $900
       million,  will be amortized for Availability Agreement purposes
       over  27  years  rather  than in the month  the  write-off  was
       recognized on System Energy's books; and

  -    the  allocation  percentages  under  the  Availability
       Agreement  are  fixed as follows: AP&L - 17.1%; LP&L  -  26.9%;
       MP&L - 31.3%; and NOPSI - 24.7%.

      As  noted  above,  the Unit Power Sales Agreement  provides  for
different allocation percentages for sales of capacity and energy from
Grand   Gulf  1.   However,  the  allocation  percentages  under   the
Availability Agreement remain in effect and would govern payments made
thereunder  in the event of a shortfall of funds available  to  System
Energy from other sources, including payments by AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and
NOPSI to System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.

      System  Energy has assigned its rights to payments and  advances
from  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI under the Availability Agreement  as
security for its first mortgage bonds and reimbursement obligations to
certain  banks providing the letters of credit in connection with  the
equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described  under
"Sale  and Leaseback Arrangements - System Energy," below.   In  these
assignments, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI further agreed that,  in  the
event they were prohibited by governmental action from making payments
under  the  Availability Agreement (if, for example, FERC  reduced  or
disallowed  such  payments as constituting excessive  rates;  see  the
second  succeeding  paragraph),  they  would  then  make  subordinated
advances to System Energy in the same amounts and at the same times as
the  prohibited payments.  System Energy would not be allowed to repay
these  subordinated advances so long as it remained in  default  under
the related indebtedness or in other similar circumstances.

      Each  of  the assignment agreements relating to the Availability
Agreement  provides  that  AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI  shall  make
payments directly to System Energy.  However, if there is an event  of
default, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI must make those payments directly
to  the holders of indebtedness secured by such assignment agreements.
The  payments  must be made pro rata according to the  amount  of  the
respective obligations secured.

      The  obligations of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI to make payments
under  the  Availability  Agreement are subject  to  the  receipt  and
continued effectiveness of all necessary regulatory approvals.   Sales
of  capacity and energy under the Availability Agreement would require
that the Availability Agreement be submitted to FERC for approval with
respect to the terms of such sale.  No filing with FERC has been  made
because  sales of capacity and energy from the Grand Gulf Station  are
being  made pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  Other aspects
of  the  Availability  Agreement, including the obligations  of  AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI to make subordinated advances, are  subject  to
the  jurisdiction  of  the SEC under the Holding  Company  Act,  whose
approval has been obtained.  If, for any reason, sales of capacity and
energy  are made in the future pursuant to the Availability Agreement,
the  jurisdictional  portions of the Availability Agreement  would  be
submitted  to  FERC  for  approval.  (Refer to  the  second  preceding
paragraph.)

      Amounts that have been received by System Energy under the  Unit
Power  Sales  Agreement have exceeded the amounts  payable  under  the
Availability   Agreement.   Consequently,  no   payments   under   the
Availability Agreement by AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI have  ever  been
required.  If AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, or NOPSI became unable in whole or  in
part to continue making payments to System Energy under the Unit Power
Sales  Agreement, and System Energy were unable to procure funds  from
other sources sufficient to cover any potential shortfall between  the
amount  owing  under  the Availability Agreement  and  the  amount  of
continuing  payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement  plus  other
funds  then  available to System Energy, LP&L and NOPSI  could  become
subject  to  claims or demands by System Energy or its  creditors  for
payments  or  advances  under  the  Availability  Agreement  (or   the
assignments  thereof) equal to the difference between  their  required
Unit  Power  Sales Agreement payments and their required  Availability
Agreement  payments.  The amount, if any, that these  companies  would
become liable to pay or advance, over and above amounts they would pay
under  the  Unit  Power Sales Agreement for capacity and  energy  from
Grand Gulf 1, would depend on a variety of factors, including, but not
limited  to,   the  amount of any such shortfall and  System  Energy's
access to other funds.  It cannot be predicted whether any such claims
or  demands, if made and upheld, could be satisfied.  In NOPSI's case,
if  any such claims or demands were upheld, the holders of certain  of
NOPSI's outstanding general and refunding mortgage bonds could require
redemption  of their bonds at par.  The ability of AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,
and NOPSI to sustain payments under the Availability Agreement and the
assignments   thereof   in  material  amounts  without   substantially
equivalent  recovery from their customers would be  limited  by  their
respective available cash resources and financing capabilities at  the
time.

      The ability of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI to recover from their
customers payments made under the Availability Agreement, or under the
assignments  thereof,  would depend upon  the  outcome  of  regulatory
proceedings  before the state and local regulatory authorities  having
jurisdiction.   In  view  of the controversies  that  arose  over  the
allocation  of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 pursuant  to  the
Unit Power Sales Agreement, opposition to recovery would be likely and
the   outcome  of  such  proceedings,  should  they  occur,   is   not
predictable.

     Reallocation Agreement.  On November 18, 1981, the SEC authorized
LP&L,  MP&L,  and NOPSI to indemnify AP&L against its responsibilities
and  obligations with respect to the Grand Gulf Station  contained  in
the  Availability Agreement and the assignments thereof.  The  revised
percentages  of allocated capacity of System Energy's share  of  Grand
Gulf  1 and Grand Gulf 2 were, respectively: LP&L - 38.57% and 26.23%;
MP&L  -  31.63%  and  43.97%; and NOPSI - 29.80% and  29.80%.   FERC's
decision  allocating the capacity and energy of  Grand  Gulf  1  among
AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI supersedes the Reallocation  Agreement
insofar  as  it relates to Grand Gulf 1.  However, responsibility  for
any  Grand  Gulf 2 amortization amounts (see "Availability Agreement,"
above) has been allocated to LP&L - 26.23%, MP&L - 43.97%, and NOPSI -
29.80%,   under   the  terms  of  the  Reallocation  Agreement.    The
Reallocation  Agreement  does not affect the  obligation  of  AP&L  to
System Energy's lenders under the assignments referred to in the fifth
preceding  paragraph, and AP&L would be liable for its share  of  such
amounts if LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI were unable to meet their contractual
obligations.  No payments of any amortization amounts will be required
as  long  as amounts paid to System Energy under the Unit Power  Sales
Agreement,  together  with  other funds available  to  System  Energy,
exceed  amounts  required under the Availability  Agreement.  This  is
expected to be the case for the foreseeable future.

      Capital  Funds Agreement.  System Energy and Entergy Corporation
have   entered  into  the  Capital  Funds  Agreement  whereby  Entergy
Corporation  has agreed to supply to System Energy sufficient  capital
to (1) maintain System Energy's equity capital at an amount equal to a
minimum  of  35%  of  its  total capitalization (excluding  short-term
debt),  and  (2)  permit the continuation of commercial  operation  of
Grand Gulf 1 and to pay in full all indebtedness for borrowed money of
System Energy when due under any circumstances.

      Entergy Corporation has entered into various supplements to  the
Capital  Funds  Agreement, and System Energy has assigned  its  rights
thereunder  as security for its first mortgage bonds and reimbursement
obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection
with  the  equity  funding  of  the sale  and  leaseback  transactions
described  below  under  "Sale  and Leaseback  Arrangements  -  System
Energy"  .   Each such supplement provides that permitted indebtedness
for  borrowed money incurred by System Energy in connection  with  the
financing of the Grand Gulf Station may be secured by System  Energy's
rights  under the Capital Funds Agreement on a pro rata basis  (except
for  the  Specific Payments, as hereinafter defined). In addition,  in
the particular supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement relating  to
the  specific  indebtedness  being secured,  Entergy  Corporation  has
agreed  to make cash capital contributions to System Energy sufficient
to enable System Energy to make payments when due on such indebtedness
(Specific Payments).

      Except  with respect to the Specific Payments, which  have  been
approved by the SEC under the Holding Company Act, the performance  by
both  Entergy Corporation and System Energy of their obligations under
the  Capital  Funds  Agreement, as supplemented,  is  subject  to  the
receipt and continued effectiveness of all governmental authorizations
necessary  to permit such performance, including approval by  the  SEC
under  the  Holding Company Act.  Each of the supplemental  agreements
provides that Entergy Corporation shall make its payments directly  to
System  Energy.   However, if there is an event  of  default,  Entergy
Corporation  must  make  those payments directly  to  the  holders  of
indebtedness  secured  by the supplemental agreements.   The  payments
(other than the Specific Payments) must be made pro rata according  to
the  amount  of the respective obligations secured by the supplemental
agreements.

Sale and Leaseback Arrangements

      LP&L.  On September 28, 1989, LP&L entered into arrangements for
the  sale  and  leaseback of an approximate aggregate  9.3%  ownership
interest in Waterford 3.  LP&L has options to terminate the leases and
to repurchase the interests in Waterford 3 at certain intervals during
the  basic terms of the leases.  Further, at the end of the  terms  of
the  leases, LP&L has options to renew the leases or to repurchase the
interests  in  Waterford  3.   LP&L did not  exercise  its  option  to
repurchase  the  undivided  interests in  Waterford  3  on  the  fifth
anniversary  (September 1994) of the closing  date  of  the  sale  and
leaseback  transactions.  As a result, LP&L was  required  to  provide
collateral to the owner participants for the equity portion of certain
amounts payable by LP&L under the lease.  Such collateral was  in  the
form  of  a  new  series  of first mortgage  bonds  in  the  aggregate
principal  amount of $208.2 million issued by LP&L in  September  1994
under its first mortgage bond indenture.  (For further information  on
LP&L's   sale  and  leaseback  arrangements,  including  the  required
maintenance  by  LP&L  of specified capitalization  and  fixed  charge
coverage  ratios, see Note 9 of LP&L's Notes to Financial  Statements,
"Leases - Waterford 3 Lease Obligations." )

      System Energy.  On December 28, 1988, System Energy entered into
arrangements  for  the sale and leaseback of an approximate  aggregate
11.5%  ownership interest in Grand Gulf 1.  System Energy has  options
to  terminate the leases and to repurchase the undivided  interest  in
Grand  Gulf  1  at  certain intervals during  the  basic  lease  term.
Further,  System  Energy has an option at the end of the  basic  lease
term  to  renew the leases or to repurchase the undivided interest  in
Grand  Gulf 1.  In connection with the equity funding of the sale  and
leaseback  arrangements,  letters  of  credit  are  required   to   be
maintained by System Energy under the leases to secure certain amounts
payable  for  the  benefit of the equity investors.   The  letters  of
credit  currently  maintained are effective until  January  15,  1997.
Under  the provisions of a reimbursement agreement, dated December  1,
1988,  as amended, entered into by System Energy and various banks  in
connection  with the sale and leaseback arrangements  related  to  the
letters of credit (Reimbursement Agreement), System Energy has  agreed
to  a  number  of  covenants  relating to,  among  other  things,  the
maintenance  of  certain capitalization and fixed charge  ratios.   In
connection  with  an  audit of System Energy by FERC,  in  June  1994,
System  Energy, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI reached a settlement  with
the FERC staff and other parties.  On November 30, 1994, FERC approved
the  settlement.  In  accordance with the  settlement,  System  Energy
refunded  approximately $61.7 million to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI,
which  in  turn  have made or will make refunds or  credits  to  their
customers (except for those portions attributable to AP&L's and LP&L's
retained  share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).   Additionally, System  Energy
will  refund  a total of approximately $62 million, plus interest,  to
AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI over the period through June 2004.  AP&L,
LP&L  MP&L,  and  NOPSI  also  wrote-off certain  related  unamortized
balances  of  deferred  tax  credits.  As  a  result  of  the  charges
associated with the settlement, System Energy obtained the consent  of
certain  banks (parties to the Reimbursement Agreement) to  waive  the
fixed  charge  coverage  covenant in the letters  of  credit  and  the
Reimbursement Agreement related to the Grand Gulf 1 sale and leaseback
transaction, until November 30, 1995.  System Energy expects that upon
expiration  of  the waiver period, it will be in compliance  with  the
fixed  charge coverage covenant.  Absent a waiver, failure  by  System
Energy  to  perform this covenant could give rise to a draw under  the
letters  of  credit  and/or an early termination  of  the  letters  of
credit,  and, if such letters of credit were not replaced in a  timely
manner,  could  result in a default under, or other early  termination
of,  System Energy's leases.  (For further information on the  effects
of  the settlement on System Energy's financial condition, see Note  2
of System Energy's Notes to Financial Statements, "Rate and Regulatory
Matters  - FERC Audit," and for a further discussion of the provisions
of  System Energy's Reimbursement Agreement, see System Energy's Notes
to  Financial Statements, Note 6, "Dividend Restrictions" and Note  7,
"Commitments and Contingencies - Reimbursement Agreement." )



                      RATE MATTERS AND REGULATION

RATE MATTERS

      The  System  operating companies' retail rates are regulated  by
their  respective  state  and/or  local  regulatory  authorities,   as
described  below,  and  their  rates for  wholesale  sales  (including
intrasystem  sales  pursuant to the System Agreement)  and  interstate
transmission of electricity are regulated by FERC.  Rates  for  System
Energy's sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L,
MP&L,  and NOPSI pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement  are  also
regulated by FERC.

Wholesale Rate Matters

     GSU.  For information, see "Retail Rate Matters - GSU," below and
"Regulation - Other Regulation and Litigation - GSU," below.

       System  Energy.   As  described  above  under  "Certain  System
Financial  and  Support  Agreements,"  System  Energy  recovers  costs
related to its interest in Grand Gulf 1 through rates charged to AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI for Grand Gulf 1 capacity and energy under  the
Unit Power Sales Agreement.

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.   In  accordance  with the agreement, System  Energy  refunded
approximately $61.7 million to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI,  which  in
turn  have  made  or will make refunds or credits to  their  customers
(except  for those portions attributable to AP&L's and LP&L's retained
share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).  Additionally, System Energy will refund
a  total  of approximately $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L,  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI over the period through June 2004.   The  settlement
also required the write-off of certain related unamortized balances of
deferred  investment tax credits by AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.   The
settlement  reduced Entergy Corporation's consolidated net income  for
the  year  ended  December 31, 1994, by approximately  $68.2  million,
offset  by  the  write-off  of  the unamortized  balances  of  related
deferred  investment tax credits of approximately $69.4 million  ($2.9
million for Entergy Corporation; $27.3 million for AP&L; $31.5 million
for  LP&L;  $6  million for MP&L; and $1.7 million for NOPSI).  System
Energy  also reclassified from utility plant to other deferred  debits
approximately  $81  million of other Grand  Gulf  1  costs.   Although
excluded  from rate base, System Energy will be permitted  to  recover
such  costs over a 10-year period.  Interest on the $62 million refund
and  the loss of the return on the $81 million of other Grand  Gulf  1
costs  will  reduce  Entergy's  and  System  Energy's  net  income  by
approximately $10 million annually over the next 10 years. For further
information,  see  Note  2  of  System  Energy's  Notes  to  Financial
Statements  and Note 2 of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries'  Notes
to  Consolidated Financial Statements, "Rate and Regulatory Matters  -
FERC Settlement."

      Entergy  Power.  In 1990, authorizations were obtained from  the
SEC, FERC, the APSC, and the Public Service Commission of Missouri for
Entergy  Power  to  purchase AP&L's interests in  Independence  2  and
Ritchie  2,  and to begin marketing the capacity and energy  from  the
units  in certain wholesale markets.  The SEC order approving  various
aspects of the transaction was appealed by various intervenors in  the
proceeding to the D.C. Circuit, which reversed a portion of the  order
and  remanded the case to the SEC for consideration of the  effect  of
the  transfers on the System's future costs of replacement  generating
capacity and fuel.  In response to a June 24, 1993 SEC order setting a
procedural  schedule  for  the  filing of  further  pleadings  in  the
proceeding,  in  July 1993, the Entergy parties filed a post-effective
amendment to their application addressing the issues specified in  the
SEC order.  On September 9, 1993, the City of New Orleans and the LPSC
each  requested a hearing.  However, on January 5, 1994, the  City  of
New  Orleans withdrew from the proceeding, as agreed in its settlement
with  NOPSI  of various issues related to the Merger.  The  matter  is
pending before the SEC on remand.

      System  Agreement.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  engage  in  the
coordinated  planning, construction, and operation of  generation  and
transmission facilities pursuant to the terms of the System  Agreement
(described under "Property - Generating Stations," below).  GSU became
a  party to the System Agreement upon consummation of the Merger,  and
GSU now participates in this System-wide coordination.

      In  connection  with  the  Merger, FERC  approved  certain  rate
schedule changes to integrate GSU into the System Agreement.   Certain
commitments  were  adopted to provide reasonable  assurance  that  the
ratepayers of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI will not be allocated higher
costs,  including,  among other things:  (1) a tracking  mechanism  to
protect operating companies from certain unexpected increases in  fuel
costs;  (2) excluding GSU from the distribution of profits from  power
sales contracts entered into prior to the Merger; (3) a methodology to
estimate  the cost of capital in future FERC proceedings;  and  (4)  a
stipulation  that  the  operating companies  will  be  insulated  from
certain  direct effects on capacity equalization payments  should  GSU
acquire  Cajun's  30%  share in River Bend.  See "Regulation  -  Other
Regulation and Litigation," for information on appeals of FERC  Merger
orders and related pending rate schedule changes.

      In  the December 15, 1993, order approving the Merger, FERC also
initiated  a  new proceeding to consider whether the System  Agreement
permits  certain  out-of-service generating units to  be  included  in
reserve equalization calculations under Service Schedule MSS-1 of that
agreement.   FERC  established March 8, 1994, as the refund  effective
date.   On  February 16, 1994, Entergy Corporation filed an  Offer  of
Settlement  to  amend the System Agreement prospectively  to  make  it
explicit  that certain out-of-service generating units may be included
in  reserve  equalization calculations under Service  Schedule  MSS-1.
The  LPSC  and MPSC contested certain provisions in the proposal,  and
also  argued  that  LP&L and MP&L were entitled to refunds  for  MSS-1
payments  made in the past.  Subsequently, the LPSC and MPSC submitted
testimony  based  on  estimates, seeking refunds  estimated  at  $22.6
million  and $13.2 million, respectively.  On March 31, 1994, the  ALJ
limited the scope of the hearing to exclude any claims for retroactive
refunds.   On  April 5, 1994, the LPSC, Mississippi  Attorney  General
(MAG),  and  MPSC filed a complaint with FERC claiming that  Entergy's
past reserve equalization charges under System Agreement Schedule MSS-
1  violated the System Agreement, sought refunds and requested FERC to
hold   a   hearing  to  consider  this  claim.  Responses  by  Entergy
Corporation and other parties were filed on April 26, 1994.   On  June
17,  1994,  FERC  issued  an order that clarified  the  scope  of  the
proceeding to include a review of whether refunds are due for  periods
prior to the refund effective date.

      The  FERC  staff  submitted testimony concluding  that  although
Entergy's  treatment was reasonable, because it violated  the  tariff,
refunds  of  approximately $7.2 million should  be  ordered.   Entergy
submitted  testimony on September 23, 1994, describing  the  potential
impacts   (not   including   interest)  on  Service   Schedule   MSS-1
calculations if extended reserve shutdown units were not  included  in
the  MSS-1  calculations during the period 1987 through  1993.   Under
such  a theory, LP&L and MP&L would have been overbilled by $10.6  and
$8.8  million,  respectively,  and AP&L  and  NOPSI  would  have  been
underbilled  by  $6.3  and $13.1 million, respectively.   The  amounts
potentially subject to refund will continue to accrue while  the  case
is  pending.   Entergy believes that its calculation of MSS-1  charges
has  been  and  will  continue to be, in compliance  with  the  System
Agreement,  and  that  no  refunds are due.  An  initial  decision  is
expected in March 1995.

      On  August  20, l990, the City of New Orleans filed a  complaint
against  Entergy  Corporation, AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,  NOPSI,  and  System
Energy  requesting  that  FERC  investigate  AP&L's  transfer  of  its
interest  in  Independence  2 and Ritchie  2  to  Entergy  Power  (see
"Entergy Power," above) and the effect of the transfer on AP&L,  LP&L,
MP&L,  NOPSI, and their ratepayers. Various parties, including certain
of  the System's state regulators, intervened in the proceeding.  FERC
issued  an order on March 19, 1991, setting for investigation (l)  the
question  of whether overall billings under the System Agreement  will
increase as a result of the transfer to Entergy Power, and (2) if  so,
whether such increased billings reflect prudently incurred costs  that
may reasonably be charged under the System Agreement.  In two separate
decisions  the  FERC ALJ ruled on May 14, l992 and October  30,  1992,
respectively, that there was sufficient evidence to show that  overall
billings  would  increase as a result of the transfer,  but  that  the
transfer  was prudent.  On December 15, 1993, FERC issued  an  opinion
declining  to  address the prudence issue until  a  future  time  when
replacement capacity has been added or planned and finding that, until
such  time,  billings under the System Agreement as  affected  by  the
transfer of the two units are reasonable. The Entergy parties and  the
City  each  filed  a request for rehearing of this  order,  which  was
denied by FERC on February 28, 1994.  The Entergy parties and the City
each  filed  an  appeal of the FERC's orders with  the  D.C.  Circuit.
Various parties have intervened.  If FERC's decision were reversed and
any  refunds  were ordered, they would be retroactive to  October  19,
1990.

      On March 15, 1995, the LPSC filed a complaint with FERC alleging
that the System Agreement results in unjust and unreasonable rates and
requested that FERC order a hearing on this matter.  The LPSC contends
that  the failure of the System Agreement to exclude curtailable  load
from  the determination of a System operating company's responsibility
for  reserve equalization and transmission equalization costs  results
in an unjust and unreasonable cost allocation to the companies that do
not  cause  these  costs to be incurred, and also  results  in  cross-
subsidization among the System operating companies.  Further, the LPSC
alleges  that  the  mechanism by which the System operating  companies
purchase  energy  under  the System Agreement results  in  unjust  and
unreasonable rates because it does not permit companies that engage in
real  time  pricing  to be charged the marginal  cost  of  the  energy
generated for the real time pricing customer.  The System is currently
evaluating the merits of the LPSC's complaint.

      Open  Access Transmission.  On August 2, 1991, Entergy Services,
as  agent for AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and Entergy Power, submitted to
FERC  (1) proposed tariffs that, subject to certain conditions,  would
provide to electric utilities "open access" to the System's integrated
transmission  system, and (2) rate schedules providing  for  sales  of
wholesale  power at market-based rates.  Under FERC policy,  sales  of
power  at  market-based rates would be permitted only if  FERC  found,
among  other  things,  that Entergy did not  have  market  power  over
transmission.   Permitting "open access" to the System's  transmission
system  helps support such a finding.  Various parties, including  the
Council,  the  APSC,  the  MPSC,  and  the  LPSC,  intervened  in  the
proceeding.   On  March 3, 1992, FERC approved the filing,  with  some
modifications,  and on August 7, l992, FERC denied  rehearing  of  its
March 1992 order.  On August 24, l992, various parties filed petitions
with  the  D.C.  Circuit for review of FERC's 1992 orders,  and  these
petitions  were  consolidated.   The  revised  tariffs,  submitted  by
Entergy Services in response to FERC's 1992 orders, were accepted  for
filing and made effective, subject to further modifications, by  order
dated  April  5,  l993.   Entergy Services made a  further  compliance
filing  on  May 5, l993, reflecting these modifications and requesting
reconsideration  of  certain  limited matters,  which  is  subject  to
approval  by  FERC.   On  December 31, 1993,  Entergy  Services  filed
revisions  to  the  transmission service  tariff  to  recognize  GSU's
inclusion in the Entergy System.

     On July 12, 1994, the D.C. Circuit issued an opinion finding that
FERC's  failure to conduct an evidentiary hearing with respect to  the
proposed  transmission tariffs and related matters was  arbitrary  and
capricious, and that FERC failed to adequately explain its approval of
certain  provisions  in the tariffs, including  a  provision  allowing
Entergy   to   seek  recovery  in  transmission  rates  of   "stranded
investment"   costs  resulting  from  the  provision  of  transmission
service.   The case was remanded to FERC for further proceedings.   On
October  31, 1994, Entergy Services filed revised transmission tariffs
with  FERC  in  response to the D.C. Circuit's remand.  These  tariffs
provide both point-to-point and network transmission services and  are
intended  to  provide  "comparability of  service"  over  the  Entergy
transmission  network.   On  January 6, 1995,  FERC  issued  an  order
accepting the tariffs for filing and making them effective, subject to
refund.    On  January  25,  1995,  Entergy  Services  filed   revised
transmission  tariffs in response to FERC's order.  In addition,  FERC
set  Entergy's  market  pricing authority for  investigation,  thereby
making  Entergy's market price rate schedules subject to refund.   The
market  price  rate  investigation has been  deferred  by  FERC  until
conclusion  of the transmission tariff case, and an order is  expected
to be issued no later than January 15, 1997.

      Wholesale Contract.  In March 1994, North Little Rock, Arkansas,
awarded  AP&L  a wholesale power contract that will provide  estimated
revenues of $347 million over 11 years.  Under the contract, the price
per  KWH  was  reduced 18%, with increases in price through  the  year
2004.   AP&L,  which has been serving North Little Rock  for  over  40
years,  was  awarded the contract after intense bidding  with  several
competitors.  On May 22, 1994, FERC accepted the contract.  Rehearings
were  requested by one of AP&L's competitors and were held in February
1995.  The matter is pending.

Retail Rate Matters

      General.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI currently have retail rate
structures   sufficient  to  recover  their  costs,  including   costs
associated  with  their allocated shares of capacity and  energy  from
Grand  Gulf  1 under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, and a  return  on
equity.   Certain costs related to Grand Gulf 1 (and in  LP&L's  case,
Waterford 3) are being phased into retail rates over a period of time,
in order to avoid the "rate shock" associated with increasing rates to
reflect  all  such costs at once.  The deferral period in which  costs
are  incurred but not currently recovered has expired for all of these
programs,  and  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are now  recovering  those
costs  that  were  previously deferred.   Also,  AP&L  and  LP&L  have
retained a portion of their shares of Grand Gulf 1 capacity and GSU is
operating under a deregulated asset plan for a portion of its share of
River Bend.

      GSU  is involved in several rate proceedings involving recovery,
among  other things, of costs associated with River Bend.   Some  rate
relief   has  been  received,  but  GSU  has  been  unable  to  obtain
recognition  in  rates for a substantial portion  of  its  River  Bend
investment.   Recovery  of certain costs has  been  disallowed,  while
other  costs are being deferred for future recovery, held in  abeyance
pending  further  regulatory  action, or  treated  as  investments  in
deregulated  assets.  Rate proceedings and appeals relating  to  these
issues are ongoing (see "GSU," below).

      The  System  is committed to taking actions that will  stabilize
retail  rates  and avoid the need for future rate increases.   In  the
short-term,  this  involves containing costs to  the  greatest  degree
practicable, thereby avoiding erosion of earnings and delaying for  as
long  as  possible the need for general rate increases.  In accordance
with  this  retail  rate policy, the System operating  companies  have
agreed  to retail rate caps and/or rate freezes for specified  periods
of  time.  Also, NOPSI reached a settlement with the Council to reduce
electric  and  gas rates and issue credits and refunds  to  customers.
For further information, see "NOPSI" below.

       The   retail   regulatory  philosophy  is  shifting   in   some
jurisdictions from traditional cost of service regulation to incentive
rate regulation.  Incentive and performance-based rate plans encourage
efficiencies  and  productivity while permitting utilities  and  their
customers to share in the results.  MP&L implemented an incentive rate
plan in 1994 and LP&L filed a performance-based formula rate plan with
the  LPSC  in  August 1994.  For further information, see  "LP&L"  and
"MP&L" below.

      In  the  longer  term, as discussed in "Business  of  Entergy  -
Competition  -  Least  Cost Planning" above,  and  also  as  discussed
specifically  for  each applicable company below, the  System  remains
committed  to  employing integrated resource planning to minimize  the
cost of future sources of energy.

     AP&L

     Rate Freeze.  In connection with the settlement of various issues
related  to  the  Merger, AP&L agreed that it  will  not  request  any
general retail rate increase that would take effect before November 3,
1998,  except for, among other things, increases associated  with  the
recovery of certain Grand Gulf 1-related costs, excess capacity costs,
and  costs  related to the adoption of SFAS 106 that  were  previously
deferred;  recovery  of  certain taxes;  fuel  adjustment  recoveries;
recovery  of nuclear decommissioning costs; and force majeure (defined
to  include, among other things, war, natural catastrophes,  and  high
inflation).

      Recovery  of Grand Gulf 1 Costs.  Under the settlement agreement
entered into with the APSC in 1985 and amended in 1988, AP&L agreed to
retain  a portion of its Grand Gulf l-related costs, recover a portion
of  such costs currently, and defer a portion of such costs for future
recovery.   In  1994 and subsequent years, AP&L will retain  7.92%  of
such  costs  and will recover 28.08% currently.  Deferrals  ceased  in
l990,  and  AP&L  is  recovering a portion of the previously  deferred
costs each year through l998.  As of December 31, l994, the balance of
deferred  uncollected costs was $474.1 million.  AP&L is permitted  to
recover  on  a  current basis the incremental costs of  financing  the
unrecovered deferrals.

      AP&L has the right to sell capacity and energy from its retained
share of Grand Gulf 1 to third parties and to sell such energy to  its
retail  customers  at  a price equal to AP&L's  avoided  energy  cost.
Proceeds  of sales to third parties of AP&L's retained share of  Grand
Gulf  l  capacity and energy generally accrue to the benefit of AP&L's
stockholder;  however, half of the proceeds of  such  sales  to  third
parties  prior to January 1, 1996, are used to reduce the  balance  of
uncollected  deferrals  and  thus accrue  to  the  benefit  of  retail
ratepayers.  If AP&L makes sales to third parties prior to  that  date
in  excess of the retained share, the proceeds of such excess are also
split  between  the stockholder and the ratepayers,  except  that  the
portion  of the sale that accrues to the stockholder's benefit  cannot
exceed the retained share.

     Least Cost Planning.  On December 1, 1992, and July 1, 1993, AP&L
filed  with  the  APSC the Least Cost Plan described in  "Business  of
Entergy  -  Competition - Least Cost Planning," above.    However,  in
response  to  an increasingly competitive electric utility environment
AP&L  filed a motion on July 1, 1994, requesting that the APSC approve
the  withdrawal of the December 1, 1992, and July 1, 1993, filings and
rescind its directive that AP&L file another Least Cost Plan in  March
1995.   AP&L  will  file, for informational purposes only,  a  revised
Least  Cost  Plan in the fourth quarter of 1995.  In this  plan,  AP&L
intends  to adopt the RIM as the screening criterion for DSM  programs
including those DSM measures targeted at strategic load growth.   This
is  in  place  of the total resource cost test that had been  used  in
developing  the initial Least Cost Plan.  This criterion  was  adopted
because  programs  selected under this screen will minimize  the  rate
impact  of any programs on all customers.  AP&L has indicated that  it
will  not  seek special rate treatment, such as rate riders,  for  the
cost  of  programs  or loss of revenues due to DSM  programs  selected
using the RIM criterion.  On October 5, 1994, the APSC issued an order
that  suspended the initial Least Cost Plan dockets and established  a
new  docket  to  consider  the need for integrated  resource  planning
standards as required by the EPAct.  Hearings are scheduled  to  begin
in April 1995.

     Fuel Adjustment Clause.  AP&L's retail rate schedules have a fuel
adjustment  clause that provides for recovery of the  excess  cost  of
fuel and purchased power incurred in the second preceding month.   The
fuel  adjustment clause also contains a nuclear reserve fund  designed
to  cover  the cost of replacement energy during scheduled maintenance
and  refueling outages at ANO, and an incentive provision that permits
over- or under-recovery of the excess cost of replacement energy  when
ANO is operating or down for reasons other than refueling.

     GSU

      Rate Cap and Other Merger-Related Rate Agreements. In 1993,  the
LPSC  and the PUCT approved separate regulatory proposals that include
the  following  elements: (1) a five-year Rate  Cap  on  GSU's  retail
electric base rates in the respective states, except for force majeure
(defined  to  include, among other things, war, natural  catastrophes,
and  high  inflation); (2) a provision for passing through  to  retail
customers in the respective states the jurisdictional portion  of  the
fuel  savings created by the Merger; and (3) a mechanism for  tracking
nonfuel operation and maintenance savings created by the Merger.   The
LPSC regulatory plan provides that such nonfuel savings will be shared
60%  by  the shareholder and 40% by ratepayers during the eight  years
following the Merger.  The LPSC plan requires regulatory filings  each
year  by  the  end  of  May through 2001.  The  PUCT  regulatory  plan
provides  that such savings will be shared equally by the  shareholder
and  ratepayers, except that the shareholder's portion will be reduced
by  $2.6  million  per  year on a total company basis  in  years  four
through  eight.   The  PUCT  plan also requires  a  series  of  future
regulatory  filings in November 1996, 1998, and 2001, to  ensure  that
ratepayers'  share of such savings be reflected in rates on  a  timely
basis  and  requires  Entergy Corporation to hold GSU's  Texas  retail
customers harmless from the effects of the removal by FERC  of  a  40%
cap  on the amount of fuel savings GSU may be required to transfer  to
other  Entergy  operating companies under the FERC tracking  mechanism
(see below).  On January 14, 1994, Entergy Corporation filed a request
for  rehearing of FERC's December 15, 1993, order approving the Merger
requesting  that FERC restore the 40% cap provision in the  fuel  cost
protection mechanism.  The matter is pending.

      Recovery  of River Bend Costs.  GSU deferred approximately  $369
million  of  River  Bend operating costs, purchased power  costs,  and
accrued  carrying  charges pursuant to a 1986 PUCT  accounting  order.
Approximately $182 million of these costs are being amortized  over  a
20-year period ending in the year 2009, and the remaining $187 million
are  not  being  amortized pending the ultimate outcome  of  the  Rate
Appeal (see "Texas Jurisdiction - River Bend," below).  As of December
31,  1994,  the  unamortized balance of these costs was $321  million.
Further,  GSU  deferred approximately $400.4 million of similar  costs
pursuant  to  a  1986 LPSC accounting order.  These  costs,  of  which
approximately  $122 million are unamortized as of December  31,  1994,
are being amortized over a 10-year period ending in 1997.

      In  accordance with a phase-in plan approved by  the  LPSC,  GSU
deferred  $294 million of its River Bend costs related to  the  period
February  1988 through February 1991.  GSU has amortized $129  million
through  December 31, 1994, and the remainder of $165 million will  be
recovered over approximately 3.2 years.

      Texas Jurisdiction - River Bend.   In May 1988, the PUCT granted
GSU a permanent increase in annual revenues of $59.9 million resulting
from  the  inclusion  in rate base of approximately  $1.6  billion  of
company-wide  River  Bend  plant  investment  and  approximately  $182
million of related Texas retail jurisdiction deferred River Bend costs
(Allowed  Deferrals).  In addition, the PUCT disallowed  as  imprudent
$63.5  million  of company-wide River Bend plant costs and  placed  in
abeyance,  with no finding of prudence, approximately $1.4 billion  of
company-wide  River  Bend  plant  investment  and  approximately  $157
million of Texas retail jurisdiction deferred River Bend operating and
carrying costs.  The PUCT affirmed that the ultimate rate treatment of
such  amounts would be subject to future demonstration of the prudence
of  such costs.  GSU and intervening parties appealed this order (Rate
Appeal)  and  GSU  filed a separate rate case asking that  the  abeyed
River  Bend  plant  costs  be  found  prudent  (Separate  Rate  Case).
Intervening  parties filed suit in a Texas district court to  prohibit
the  Separate Rate Case.  The district court's decision was ultimately
appealed  to  the Texas Supreme Court, which ruled in  1990  that  the
prudence of the purported abeyed costs could not be relitigated  in  a
separate  rate proceeding.  The Texas Supreme Court's decision  stated
that  all  issues relating to the merits of the original  PUCT  order,
including  the  prudence of all River Bend-related  costs,  should  be
addressed in the Rate Appeal.

      In  October  1991, the Texas district court in the  Rate  Appeal
issued  an  order holding that, while it was clear the  PUCT  made  an
error  in assuming it could set aside $1.4 billion of the total  costs
of  River  Bend  and  consider them in a later proceeding,  the  PUCT,
nevertheless,  found that GSU had not met its burden of proof  related
to  the  amounts  placed in abeyance.  The court also ruled  that  the
Allowed  Deferrals  should not be included in rate  base.   The  court
further  stated  that  the PUCT had erred in reducing  GSU's  deferred
costs  by $1.50 for each $1.00 of revenue collected under the  interim
rate  increases authorized in 1987 and 1988.  The court  remanded  the
case  to the PUCT with instructions as to the proper handling  of  the
Allowed  Deferrals.   GSU's motion for rehearing was  denied  and,  in
December 1991, GSU filed an appeal of the October 1991 district  court
order.   The PUCT also appealed the October 1991 district court order,
which served to supersede the district court's judgment, rendering  it
unenforceable under Texas law.

      In  August 1994, the Texas Third District Court of Appeals  (the
Appellate Court) affirmed the district court's decision that there was
substantial  evidence  to  support the PUCT's  1988  decision  not  to
include  the  abeyed  construction costs in GSU's  rate  base.   While
acknowledging  that  the  PUCT  had exceeded  its  authority  when  it
attempted to defer a decision on the inclusion of those costs in  rate
base  in  order to allow GSU a further opportunity to demonstrate  the
prudence  of  those  costs in a subsequent proceeding,  the  Appellate
Court found that GSU had suffered no harm or lack of due process as  a
result  of  the PUCT's error.  Accordingly, the Appellate  Court  held
that  the PUCT's action had the effect of disallowing the company-wide
$1.4 billion of River Bend construction costs for ratemaking purposes.
In  its August 1994 opinion, the Appellate Court also held that  GSU's
deferred  operating and maintenance costs associated with the  allowed
portion  of River Bend should be included in rate base and that  GSU's
deferred  River Bend carrying costs included in the Allowed  Deferrals
should  also  be included in rate base.  The Appellate Court's  August
1994 opinion affirmed the PUCT's original order in this case.

      The  Appellate  Court's August 1994 opinion was entered  by  two
judges, with a third judge dissenting.  The dissenting opinion  states
that  the  result of the majority opinion is, among other  things,  to
deprive  GSU of due process at the PUCT because the PUCT never reached
a finding on the $1.4 billion of construction costs.

      In  October  1994, the Appellate Court denied GSU's  motion  for
rehearing on the August 1994 opinion as to the $1.4 billion  in  River
Bend construction costs and other matters.  GSU appealed the Appellate
Court's decision to the Texas Supreme Court, where it is pending.

      As  of  December 31, 1994, the River Bend plant costs disallowed
for  retail  ratemaking purposes in Texas, the River Bend plant  costs
held  in  abeyance,  and  the  related  operating  and  carrying  cost
deferrals  totaled  (net  of taxes) approximately  $13  million,  $280
million  (both  net of depreciation), and $170 million,  respectively.
Allowed  Deferrals were approximately $107 million, net of  taxes  and
amortization, as of December 31, 1994.  GSU estimates it has collected
approximately $158 million of revenues as of December 31, 1994,  as  a
result  of the originally ordered rate treatment by the PUCT of  these
deferred  costs.  If recovery of the Allowed Deferrals is not  upheld,
future revenues based upon those allowed deferrals could also be lost,
and  no assurance can be given as to whether or not refunds of revenue
received  based upon such deferred costs previously recorded  will  be
required.

      No  assurance  can be given as to the timing or outcome  of  the
remands  or appeals described above.  Pending further developments  in
these cases, GSU has made no write-offs or reserves for the River Bend-
related  costs.   Management believes, based  on  advice  from  Clark,
Thomas  & Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record
in  the Rate Appeal, that it is reasonably possible that the case will
be  remanded to the PUCT, and the PUCT will be allowed to rule on  the
prudence  of the abeyed River Bend plant costs.  Rate Caps imposed  by
the PUCT's regulatory approval of the Merger could result in GSU being
unable  to  use the full amount of a favorable decision to immediately
increase  rates;  however,  a  favorable decision  could  permit  some
increases and/or limit or prevent decreases during the period the Rate
Caps  are  in effect.  At this time, management and legal counsel  are
unable  to  predict the amount, if any, of the abeyed  and  previously
disallowed River Bend plant costs that ultimately may be disallowed by
the  PUCT.  A net of tax write-off as of December 31, 1994, of  up  to
$293 million could be required based on an ultimate adverse ruling  by
the PUCT on the abeyed and disallowed costs.

     In prior proceedings, the PUCT has held that the original cost of
nuclear  power  plants will be included in rates to the  extent  those
costs were prudently incurred.  Based upon the PUCT's prior decisions,
management  believes  that  its  River Bend  construction  costs  were
prudently  incurred and that it is reasonably possible  that  it  will
recover in rate base, or otherwise through means such as a deregulated
asset  plan, all or substantially all of the abeyed River  Bend  plant
costs.   However,  management also recognizes that  it  is  reasonably
possible  that  not  all  of the abeyed River  Bend  plant  costs  may
ultimately be recovered.

     As part of its direct case in the Separate Rate Case, GSU filed a
cost  reconciliation study prepared by Sandlin Associates,  management
consultants  with  expertise in the cost  analysis  of  nuclear  power
plants, which supports the reasonableness of the River Bend costs held
in  abeyance  by the PUCT.  This reconciliation study determined  that
approximately  82% of the River Bend cost increase  above  the  amount
included  by the PUCT in rate base was a result of changes in  federal
nuclear  safety  requirements  and  provided  other  support  for  the
remainder of the abeyed amounts.

      There  have been four other rate proceedings in Texas  involving
nuclear  power plants.  Investment in the plants ultimately disallowed
ranged from 0% to 15%.  Each case was unique, and the disallowances in
each were made on a case-by-case basis for different reasons.  Appeals
of two of these PUCT decisions are currently pending.

      The  following factors support management's position that a loss
contingency  requiring accrual has not occurred, and its  belief  that
all,  or  substantially all, of the abeyed plant costs will ultimately
be recovered:

     1. The  $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs have  never
        been ruled imprudent and disallowed by the PUCT.
     2. Sandlin  Associates' analysis which supports the  prudence  of
        substantially all of the abeyed construction costs.
     3. Historical  inclusion  by  the PUCT  of  prudent  construction
        costs in rate base.
     4. The   analysis  of  GSU's  internal  legal  staff,  which  has
        considerable experience in Texas rate case litigation.
     
      Additionally, management believes, based on advice  from  Clark,
Thomas  & Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record
in  the  Rate Appeal, that it is reasonably possible that the  Allowed
Deferrals  will  continue to be recovered in rates.   Management  also
believes, based on advice from Clark, Thomas & Winters, a Professional
Corporation, legal counsel of record in the Rate Appeal,  that  it  is
reasonably  possible  that  the deferred costs  related  to  the  $1.4
billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs will be recovered in rates to
the  extent  that  the  $1.4 billion of abeyed  River  Bend  plant  is
recovered.   However, a net of tax write-off of the  $170  million  of
deferred costs related to the $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend  plant
costs  would  be required if they are not allowed to be  recovered  in
rates.

     Texas Fuel Cost Review.  ( December 1, 1986 - September 30, 1991)
In  January 1992, GSU applied to the PUCT for a new fixed fuel  factor
and requested a final reconciliation of fuel and purchased power costs
incurred  between  December  1, 1986  and  September  30,  1991.   GSU
proposed  to  recover  net  underrecoveries  and  interest  (including
underrecoveries related to NISCO, discussed below) over a twelve month
period.

      In April 1993, the presiding PUCT ALJ issued a report concluding
that  GSU incurred approximately $117 million of nonreimbursable  fuel
costs  on a company-wide basis (approximately $50 million on  a  Texas
retail   jurisdictional  basis)  during  the  reconciliation   period.
Included  in the nonreimbursable fuel costs were payments above  GSU's
avoided cost rate for power purchased from NISCO.  The PUCT ordered in
1986  that  the  purchased power costs from NISCO in excess  of  GSU's
avoided  costs  be  disallowed.   The PUCT  disallowance  resulted  in
approximately  $12  million to $15 million  of  unrecovered  purchased
power costs on an annual basis, which GSU continued to expense as  the
costs  were incurred.  In April 1991, the Texas Supreme Court, in  the
appeal  of  such  order,  ordered the PUCT to  allow  GSU  to  recover
purchased  power  payments in excess of its  avoided  cost  in  future
proceedings,  if GSU established to the PUCT's satisfaction  that  the
payments were reasonable and necessary expenses.

      In  June  1993,  the  PUCT concluded that  the  purchased  power
payments  made  to  NISCO in excess of GSU's  avoided  cost  were  not
reasonably  incurred.   As  a  result  of  the  order,  GSU   recorded
additional fuel expenses (including interest) of $2.8 million for non-
NISCO  related  items.   The PUCT's order resulted  in  no  additional
expenses related to the NISCO issue, or for overcollections related to
the  fixed fuel factor, as those charges were expensed by GSU as  they
were  incurred.   The  PUCT concluded that GSU had over-collected  its
fuel  costs  in  Texas  and ordered GSU to refund approximately  $33.8
million  to  its Texas retail customers, including approximately  $7.5
million  of  interest.  In that proceeding, the PUCT  also  set  GSU's
fixed  fuel factor in Texas at 1.84 cents per KWH in response to GSU's
request  that  the factor be set at 2.02 cents per  KWH.   In  October
1993,  GSU  appealed  the PUCT's order to the Travis  County  District
Court where the matter is still pending.  No assurance can be given as
to  the  timing or outcome of that appeal.  In a subsequent proceeding
to  review  GSU's  fuel  factor, the PUCT approved  GSU's  request  to
further  reduce its fixed fuel factor in Texas to 1.78 cents  per  KWH
from 1.84 cents per KWH.

      Texas  Fuel Cost Review.  (October 1, 1991 - December 31,  1993)
On  January 9, 1995,  GSU and various parties reached an agreement for
the  reconciliation of over- and under-recovery of fuel and  purchased
power  expenses for the period October 1, 1991, through  December  31,
1993.  While the settlement still requires PUCT approval, GSU believes
it  will ultimately be approved and has accordingly recorded a reserve
of $7.6 million.

     Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities.  In March 1994, the Texas
Office  of  Public Utility Counsel and certain cities  served  by  GSU
instituted an investigation of the reasonableness of GSU's rates.   In
June  1994, GSU provided the cities with information that GSU believed
supported the current rate level.  GSU filed the same information with
the  PUCT  in  June 1994, pursuant to provisions of  the  Merger.   In
September  1994,  certain cities adopted ordinances directing  GSU  to
reduce  its  Texas  retail rates by $45.9 million.  GSU  appealed  the
cities'  ordinances to the PUCT for a determination of  reasonableness
of GSU's rates.

     In November 1994, those cities that intervened in the PUCT appeal
filed  testimony  with the PUCT supporting a $118  million  base  rate
reduction  in lieu of the previously proposed $45.9 million reduction.
In  November  1994, the PUCT staff filed testimony  that  supported  a
$38.2  million  base rate reduction.  GSU filed information  with  the
PUCT  that it believed supported the current level of rates.  Hearings
were  held in December 1994 and on March 20, 1995, the PUCT ordered  a
$72.9  million  annual base rate reduction for the  period  March  31,
1994,  through  September 1, 1994, decreasing to an annual  base  rate
reduction  of  $52.9 million after September 1, 1994.   In  accordance
with the Merger agreement, the rate reduction is applied retroactively
to  March  31, 1994.  As a result, GSU recorded a $57 million  reserve
for  rate  refund in 1994 which reduced net income after tax by  $41.6
million.  The rate reduction is being appealed and no assurance can be
given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

      Texas  Cities Rate Settlement - 1993.  In June 1993,  13  cities
within  GSU's  Texas  service  area  instituted  an  investigation  to
determine  whether  GSU's current rates were  justified.   In  October
1993,  the general counsel of the PUCT instituted an inquiry into  the
reasonableness  of  GSU's  rates.   In  November  1993,  a  settlement
agreement  was  filed  with the PUCT which  provided  for  an  initial
reduction   in  GSU's  annual  retail  base  revenues  in   Texas   of
approximately $22.5 million effective for electric usage on  or  after
November  1,  1993,  and a second reduction of $20  million  effective
September 1994.  Pursuant to the settlement, GSU reduced rates with  a
$20  million  one-time  bill  credit in December  1993,  and  refunded
approximately  $3 million to Texas retail customers on bills  rendered
in  December 1993.  The PUCT approved the settlement agreement on July
21, 1994.  The cities' rate inquiries were settled earlier on the same
terms.

      LPSC  Rate  Review  Order - 1994.  In May  1994,  GSU  made  the
required first post-Merger earnings analysis filing with the LPSC.  On
December  14,  1994,  the  LPSC ordered a $12.7  million  annual  rate
reduction  for  GSU effective January 1995.  The rate order  included,
among  other  things,  a  reduction in GSU's Louisiana  jurisdictional
authorized return on equity from 12.75% to 10.95% and the amortization
for  the  benefit  of  the  customers of $8.3  million  of  previously
deferred   unbilled  revenue,  representing  one-half  of  the   total
resulting  from a change in accounting discussed in Note 1 of  Entergy
Corporation   and   Subsidiaries'  Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
Statements.    On  December  28,  1994,  GSU  received  a  preliminary
injunction  from  the  19th  Judicial District  Court  regarding  $8.3
million  of the reduction.  On January 1, 1995, GSU reduced  rates  by
$4.4  million.   The entire $12.7 million reduction is being  appealed
and  no  assurance  can be given as to the timing or  outcome  of  the
appeal.

      LPSC  Fuel  Cost Review.  In November 1993, the LPSC  ordered  a
review  of  GSU's  fuel  costs  for the period  October  1988  through
September 1991 (Phase 1) based on the number of outages at River  Bend
and  the findings in the June 1993 PUCT fuel reconciliation case.   In
July  1994, the LPSC ruled in the Phase 1 fuel review case and ordered
GSU  to refund approximately $27 million to its customers.  Under  the
order,  a  refund  of $13.1 million, which was not contested  under  a
Louisiana Supreme Court decision as discussed below, was made  through
a  billing credit on August 1994 bills.  In August 1994, GSU  appealed
the  remaining  portion  of the LPSC ordered refund  to  the  district
court.  GSU  has  made no reserve for the remaining  portion,  pending
outcome of the district court appeal, and no assurance can be given as
to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

     On January 18, 1995, GSU met with the Special Counsel of the LPSC
to discuss the procedural schedule for the upcoming fuel review (Phase
II).  The period under investigation was determined to be from October
1991 to December 1994.  Hearings are scheduled to begin in July 1995.

      In  February  1990,  the  LPSC disallowed  the  pass-through  to
ratepayers for the portion of GSU's cost to purchase power from  NISCO
representing  the excess of NISCO's purchase price of the  units  over
GSU's depreciated cost of the units.  GSU appealed the 1990 order.  In
March  1994, the Louisiana Supreme Court ruled in favor of  the  LPSC.
GSU  recorded  an estimated refund provision of $13.1 million,  before
related income taxes of $5.3 million.

      Least  Cost Planning.  Currently, the PUCT does not  have  least
cost  planning rules in place, and GSU has not filed a Least Cost Plan
with the PUCT.  However, the PUCT staff has begun a rulemaking process
for  such  rules, and GSU is actively participating in  this  process.
GSU  has  not yet filed a Least Cost Plan with the LPSC.   GSU intends
to  adopt the RIM as the screening criterion for DSM measures programs
including those DSM measures targeted at strategic load growth.   This
criterion was adopted because programs selected under this screen will
minimize  the rate impact of any programs on all customers.   GSU  has
indicated that it will not seek special rate treatment, such  as  rate
riders, for the cost of programs or the loss of revenue due to DSM for
programs selected using the RIM criterion.

      Fuel Recovery.  In January 1993, the PUCT adopted a new rule for
setting  a  fixed fuel factor, which is intended to recover  projected
allowable  fuel and purchased power costs not covered by  base  rates.
To  the  extent actual costs vary from the fixed factor, the PUCT  may
require  refunds  of overcharges or permit recovery  of  undercharges.
Under  the new rule, fuel factors are to be revised every six  months,
and  GSU  is  on  a  schedule providing for revision  each  March  and
September.   The  PUCT  is  required to act  within  60  or  90  days,
depending  on  whether or not a hearing is required, and  refunds  and
surcharges will be required based upon a materiality threshold  of  4%
of  Texas retail fuel revenues.  Fuel charges will also be subject  to
reconciliation proceedings every three years, at which time additional
adjustments  may  be required (see " Texas Fuel Cost Review,"  above).
All  of  GSU's  rate schedules in Louisiana include a fuel  adjustment
clause  to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power energy  costs.
The fuel adjustment reflects the delivered cost of fuel for the second
preceding month.

     LP&L

      LPSC Jurisdiction.  In a series of LPSC orders, court decisions,
and  agreements  from  late 1985 to mid-1988, LP&L  was  granted  rate
relief  with respect to costs associated with Waterford 3  and  LP&L's
share  of  capacity and energy from Grand Gulf l, subject  to  certain
terms  and conditions.  With respect to Waterford 3, LP&L was  granted
an  increase aggregating $170.9 million over the period 1985-1988, and
LP&L  agreed  to  permanently  absorb, and  not  recover  from  retail
ratepayers,  $284 million of its investment in the unit and  to  defer
$266  million  of  its  costs related to the  years  1985-1988  to  be
recovered over approximately 8.6 years beginning in April 1988.  As of
December  31,  1994,  LP&L's unrecovered deferral  balance  was  $54.0
million.  With respect to Grand Gulf l, LP&L agreed to absorb, and not
recover  from  retail ratepayers, 18% of its 14% share  (approximately
2.52%)  of  the  costs of Grand Gulf l capacity and energy.   LP&L  is
allowed  to recover through the fuel adjustment clause 4.6  cents  per
KWH (as of May 1994) for the energy related to its retained portion of
these costs. Alternatively, LP&L may sell such energy to nonaffiliated
parties  at  prices above the fuel adjustment clause recovery  amount,
subject  to  LPSC approval.  (See Note 2 of LP&L's Notes to  Financial
Statements, "Rate and Regulatory Matters - Waterford 3 and Grand  Gulf
1,"  for  further information on LP&L's Grand Gulf 1 and Waterford  3-
related rates.)

      In  a  subsequent rate proceeding, on March 1,  l989,  the  LPSC
issued  an  order providing that, in effect, LP&L was entitled  to  an
approximately $45.9 million annual retail rate increase, but that,  in
lieu  of  a  rate increase, LP&L would be permitted to  retain  $188.6
million of the proceeds of a 1988 settlement of litigation with a  gas
supplier, and to amortize such proceeds into revenues over a period of
approximately 5.3 years.  The amortization of the proceeds expired  in
mid-1994.    LP&L   believes   that  the  amortization   resulted   in
approximately the same amount of additional net income  as  an  annual
rate  increase  of  $45.9 million would have provided  over  the  same
period.   In  connection with this order, LP&L agreed to  a  five-year
base rate freeze which expired in March 1994.

      Performance-Based Formula Rate Plan.  In August 1994, LP&L filed
a  performance-based formula rate plan with the  LPSC.   The  proposed
formula  rate  plan  would continue existing  LP&L  rates  at  current
levels,  while  providing  financial incentive  to  reduce  costs  and
maintain  high levels of customer satisfaction and system reliability.
A  performance rating adjustment feature of the plan would allow  LP&L
the  opportunity  to  earn  a higher rate of  return  if  it  improves
performance over time.  Conversely, if performance declines, the  rate
of  return  LP&L could earn would be lowered.  This provides financial
incentive  for LP&L to maintain continuous improvement  in  all  three
performance  categories  (customer price, customer  satisfaction,  and
customer  reliability).  Under the proposed plan, if  LP&L's  earnings
fall within a bandwidth around a benchmark rate of return, there would
be  no  adjustment  in  rates.   If  LP&L's  earnings  are  above  the
bandwidth,  the proposed plan would automatically reduce  LP&L's  base
rates.  Alternatively, if LP&L's earnings are below the bandwidth, the
proposed  plan  would automatically increase LP&L's base  rates.   The
reduction  or  increase in base rates would be an amount  representing
50%  of  the  difference between the earned rate  of  return  and  the
nearest  limit  of  the  bandwidth.  In  no  event  would  the  annual
adjustment in rates exceed 2% of LP&L's retail revenues. Hearings were
held in March 1995.

     Least Cost Planning.  On December l, l992, and July 1, l993, LP&L
filed with the LPSC and the Council the Least Cost Plan and amendments
described  under  "Business  of Entergy -  Competition  -  Least  Cost
Planning," above. In response to an increasingly competitive  electric
utility  environment LP&L intends to adopt the RIM  as  the  screening
criterion  for DSM programs, including those DSM measures targeted  at
strategic  load growth.  This is in place of the total  resource  cost
test  that  had been used in developing the initial Least  Cost  Plan.
This criterion was adopted because programs selected under this screen
will  minimize the rate impact of any programs on all customers.  LP&L
has  indicated that it will not seek special rate treatment,  such  as
rate  riders,  for  the  cost  of  programs  selected  using  the  RIM
criterion.   On  September  28, 1994, LP&L filed  a  report  with  the
Council  that discussed Entergy's Least Cost Plan activities in  other
jurisdictions and described the motivations for these activities. LP&L
also filed a motion requesting that the Council defer the filing of  a
new  Least  Cost  Plan, which the existing Least Cost  Plan  ordinance
required  on  December  1,  1994.  On October  6,  1994,  the  Council
approved an amendment to the City Code that rescinded the December  1,
1994  filing requirement and allowed the Council to set a future  date
for  a  new filing.  The Council's actions also established that there
would be a set of hearings to consider a wide range of Least Cost Plan
issues,  and  that  a  new filing date would be established  following
these  hearings.  These rulings do not affect the ongoing DSM programs
that LP&L is currently implementing in the City.

      Regarding the activities of LP&L within the jurisdiction of  the
LPSC,  on  June 30, 1994, LP&L filed rebuttal testimony with the  LPSC
explaining LP&L's new direction for least cost planning.  On July  18,
1994,  LP&L  filed a motion to withdraw its Least Cost  Plan  and  for
approval  of  an experimental time-of-use-rate.  LP&L will  file,  for
informational purposes only, a revised Least Cost Plan in  the  fourth
quarter  of  1995.   The LPSC responded to LP&L's request  by  placing
LP&L's  application for approval in abeyance.  However, the  LPSC  did
require  LP&L to file a set of proposed pilot programs.   In  December
1994, LP&L filed a set of proposed pilot programs with the LPSC.  LP&L
has  agreed  not  to seek special treatment of the costs  or  loss  of
revenues  due  to  DSM measures associated with these pilot  programs.
The  LPSC has also ordered that a set of generic hearings be  held  to
address integrated resource planning issues for all electric utilities
within  its jurisdiction.  No procedural schedule has been issued  for
these proceedings.

      Fuel  Adjustment Clause.  LP&L's rate schedules include  a  fuel
adjustment  clause to reflect the (1) delivered cost of  fuel  in  the
second preceding month and (2) purchased power energy costs.  The fuel
adjustment also reflects a surcharge for deferred fuel expense arising
from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel cost incurred with fuel
cost revenues billed to customers. LP&L defers on its books fuel costs
that  will  be reflected in customer billings in the future under  the
fuel adjustment clause.

     MP&L

     Rate Freeze.  In a stipulation entered into by MP&L in connection
with  the  settlement of various issues related to  the  Merger,  MP&L
agreed  that  (1) for a period of five years beginning on November  9,
1993, retail base rates under MP&L's formulary rate plan would not  be
increased above the level of rates in effect on November 1, 1993,  and
(2) MP&L would not request any general retail rate increase that would
increase retail rates above the level of MP&L's rates in effect as  of
November  l,  1993, and that would become effective in such  five-year
period  except for, among other things, increases associated with  the
recovery  of deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs, recovery  under  the
fuel  adjustment  clause,  adjustments for certain  taxes,  and  force
majeure   (defined  to  include,  among  other  things,  war,  natural
catastrophes, and high inflation).

      Recovery  of  Grand  Gulf 1 Costs.  The MPSC's  Final  Order  on
Rehearing, issued in 1985, affirmed by the United States Supreme Court
in 1988, and subsequently revised in 1988, granted MP&L an annual base
rate  increase of approximately $326.5 million in connection with  its
allocated  share of Grand Gulf 1 costs.  The Final Order on  Rehearing
also  provided for the deferral of a portion of such costs  that  were
incurred each year through 1992, and recovery of these deferrals  over
a  period  of six years ending in 1998.  As of December 31, 1994,  the
uncollected balance of MP&L's deferred costs was approximately  $492.3
million.   MP&L  is permitted to recover the carrying charges  on  all
deferred amounts on a current basis.

       Formula  Rate  Plan.    Under a formulary incentive  rate  plan
(Formula Rate Plan)  effective March 25, 1994, MP&L's earned  rate  of
return is calculated automatically every 12 months and compared to and
adjusted  against  a  benchmark rate of  return  (calculated  under  a
separate formula within the Formula Rate Plan).  The Formula Rate Plan
allows  for  periodic small adjustments in rates based on a comparison
of  earned to benchmark returns and upon certain performance  factors.
In  the same proceeding, the MPSC conducted a general review of MP&L's
current rates and on March 1, 1994, issued a final order adopting  the
Formula  Rate Plan and previously agreed-upon stipulations  of  (1)  a
required   return  on  equity  of  11%  and  (2)  certain   accounting
adjustments  that  resulted  in a 4.3% ($28.1  million)  reduction  in
MP&L's  June  30,  1993, test-year base revenues.   The  MPSC's  order
required MP&L to file rates designed to provide for this reduction  in
operating  revenues  for the test year on or before  March  18,  1994,
which  became effective March 25, 1994.  The final order was  appealed
to  the  Mississippi  Supreme Court on May 17,  1994,  by  Mississippi
Valley Gas Company (MVG) on the grounds that the MPSC issued the final
order   without  having  reviewed  the  cost  of  MP&L's   promotional
practices,  some  of which MVG alleged to be improper.   MVG  filed  a
motion to dismiss the appeal, and on October 28, 1994, the Mississippi
Supreme Court granted MVG's motion.

      February 1994 Ice Storm/Rate Rider  In early February  1994,  an
ice  storm left more than 80,000 MP&L customers without electric power
across  the  service  area.  The storm was  the  most  severe  natural
disaster ever to affect the System, causing damage to transmission and
distribution lines, equipment, poles, and facilities in certain areas,
primarily  in  Mississippi.  Repair costs totaled approximately  $77.2
million,  with  $64.6 million of these amounts capitalized  as  plant-
related  costs.  The remaining balances were recorded  as  a  deferred
debit.   On  April  15, 1994, MP&L filed for rate  recovery  of  costs
related  to  the  ice storm.  MP&L's filing, as subsequently  amended,
requested  recovery of the revenue requirement associated with  MP&L's
ice   storm  costs  recorded  through  April  30,  1994,  representing
approximately  86% of the total estimated ice storm costs.   MP&L  may
make  another  ice  storm rate filing with the  MPSC  during  1995  to
recover  ice  storm costs recorded by MP&L after April 30,  1994.   In
August 1994, MP&L and the MPSC's Public Utilities Staff entered into a
stipulation  with respect to the recovery of ice storm costs  recorded
through  April 30, 1994, and in September 1994, the MPSC approved  the
stipulation.   Under the stipulation, MP&L implemented  an  ice  storm
rider  schedule, which went into effect on September  29,  1994,  that
will  increase rates approximately $8 million annually for five years.
At the end of the five-year period, the revenue requirement associated
with the undepreciated ice storm capitalized costs will be included in
MP&L's base rates to the extent that this revenue requirement does not
result in MP&L's rate of return on rate base being above the benchmark
rate of return under MP&L's formula rate plan.

     Least Cost Planning.  On December 1, 1992, and July 1, 1993, MP&L
filed  with  the  MPSC the Least Cost Plan described in  "Business  of
Entergy  - Competition - Least Cost Planning," above.  In response  to
an increasingly competitive electric utility environment MP&L filed  a
motion  on  June 20, 1994, with the MPSC to lift a currently effective
stay order and dismiss without prejudice the proposed Least Cost Plan.
On  July  28, 1994, the MPSC issued an order that lifted the stay  and
dismissed, without prejudice, the Least Cost Plan filing.   MP&L  will
file,  for informational purposes only, a revised Least Cost  Plan  in
the  fourth quarter of 1995.  In this plan, MP&L intends to adopt  the
RIM  as  the screening criterion for DSM programs including those  DSM
measures targeted at strategic load growth.  This is in place  of  the
total  resource cost test that had been used in developing the initial
Least Cost Plan.  This criterion was adopted because programs selected
under this screen will minimize the rate impact of any programs on all
customers.   MP&L  has indicated that it will not  seek  special  rate
treatment,  such as rate riders, for the cost of programs or  loss  of
revenue due to DSM for programs selected using the RIM criterion.

      Fuel  Adjustment Clause.  MP&L's rate schedules include  a  fuel
adjustment  clause that permits recovery from customers of changes  in
the  cost  of  fuel and purchased power.  The monthly fuel  adjustment
rate is based on projected sales and costs for the month, adjusted for
differences  between actual and estimated costs for the  second  prior
month.

     NOPSI

      Recovery  of  Grand  Gulf 1 Costs.  Under NOPSI's  various  Rate
Settlements with the Council (which include the 1986 NOPSI Settlement,
the  February 4 Resolution relating to prudence issues, and  the  1991
NOPSI  Settlement of the issues raised in the February 4  Resolution),
NOPSI  agreed  to absorb and not recover from ratepayers  a  total  of
$186.2  million  of its Grand Gulf 1 costs.  NOPSI  was  permitted  to
implement  annual  rate  increases in  decreasing  amounts  each  year
through 1995, and to defer certain costs and related carrying charges,
for  recovery on a schedule extending from 1991 through 2001.   As  of
December  31, 1994, the uncollected balance of NOPSI's deferred  costs
was  $204.7 million.  NOPSI also agreed to a base rate freeze  through
October  31, 1996, excluding the scheduled increases, certain  changes
in  tax rates, and increases related to catastrophic events.  However,
this  base  rate  freeze  was  amended by the  1994  NOPSI  Settlement
discussed below.  See Note 2 of NOPSI's Notes to Financial Statements,
"Rate and Regulatory Matters - Prudence Settlement and Finalized Phase-
In Plan."

      Electric  Retail  Rate  Reduction.  On  November  18,  1993,  in
connection  with  the  settlement of various  issues  related  to  the
Merger, the Council adopted a resolution requiring NOPSI to reduce its
annual  electric base rates by $4.8 million on bills  rendered  on  or
after November 1, 1993.

     1994 NOPSI Settlement.  In a settlement with the Council that was
approved on December 29, 1994, NOPSI agreed to reduce electric and gas
rates  and issue credits and refunds to customers.  Effective  January
1,  1995,  NOPSI  implemented a $31.8 million permanent  reduction  in
electric base rates and a $3.1 million permanent reduction in gas base
rates.   These  adjustments resolved issues  associated  with  NOPSI's
return  on  equity  exceeding 13.76% for the test year  September  30,
1994.  Under the 1991 NOPSI Settlement, NOPSI recovers from its retail
customers  its allocable share of certain costs related to Grand  Gulf
1.   NOPSI's  base  rates  to recover those costs  were  derived  from
estimates of those costs made at that time.  Any overrecovery of costs
is  required  to be returned to customers.  Grand Gulf  1  experienced
lower  operating costs than previously estimated, and NOPSI agreed  to
reduce  its  base  rates  in two steps to more  accurately  match  the
current  costs  related to Grand Gulf 1.  On  January 1,  1995,  NOPSI
implemented  a $10 million permanent reduction in base electric  rates
to  reflect the reduced costs related to Grand Gulf 1, to be  followed
by  an  additional  $4.4 million rate reduction on October  31,  1995.
These  Grand Gulf 1 rate reductions, which are expected to be  largely
offset  by  lower  operating costs, may reduce NOPSI's  after-tax  net
income  by  approximately $1.4 million per year beginning November  1,
1995.   The next scheduled Grand Gulf 1 phase-in rate increase in  the
amount  of  $4.4 million on October 31, 1995, will not be affected  by
the 1994 NOPSI Settlement.
     
      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also requires NOPSI  to  credit  its
customers  $25  million over a 21-month period, beginning  January  1,
1995,  in  order  to resolve disputes with the Council  regarding  the
interpretation  of  the  1991  NOPSI Settlement.   NOPSI  reduced  its
revenues  by  $25  million  and recorded a  $15.4  million  net-of-tax
reserve associated with the credit in the fourth quarter of 1994.  The
1994  NOPSI  Settlement further required NOPSI to refund, in  December
1994,  $13.3  million of credits previously scheduled to  be  made  to
customers  during  the period January 1995 through July  1995.   These
credits  were associated with a July 7, 1994, Council resolution  that
ordered  a $24.95 million rate reduction based on NOPSI's overearnings
during  the  test  year ended September 30, 1993.  Accordingly,  NOPSI
recorded  an  $8  million net-of-tax charge in the fourth  quarter  of
1994.

      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also required NOPSI to  refund  $9.3
million  of  overcollections associated with Grand  Gulf  1  operating
costs  and $10.5 million of refunds associated with the settlement  by
System  Energy of  a FERC tax audit.  The settlement of the  FERC  tax
audit  by System Energy required refunds to be passed on to NOPSI  and
to other Entergy subsidiaries and then on to customers.  These refunds
have no effect on current period net income.

      Gas Rates.  In May 1992, NOPSI and the Council settled a pending
application  for  gas  rate increases.  The  settlement  provided  for
annual  rate increases of approximately $3.8 million in May  1992  and
1993, and the deferral of an additional $3 million for recovery in the
years beginning in May 1993 through May 1996.  NOPSI agreed to a  base
rate  freeze,  except for the scheduled increases  and  certain  other
exceptions,  through October 31, 1996.  However, this was  amended  by
the 1994 NOPSI Settlement discussed above.

      Least  Cost  Planning.  On December 1, 1992, and July  1,  1993,
NOPSI  filed  with  the  Council the Least Cost Plan  described  under
"Business  of Entergy - Competition - Least Cost Planning," above.  In
response  to  an increasingly competitive electric utility environment
NOPSI intends to adopt RIM as the screening criterion for DSM programs
including those DSM measures targeted at strategic load growth.   This
is  in  place  of the total resource cost test that had been  used  in
developing  the initial Least Cost Plan.  This criterion  was  adopted
because  programs  selected under this screen will minimize  the  rate
impact of any programs on all customers.  NOPSI has indicated that  it
will  not  seek special rate treatment, such as rate riders,  for  the
cost  of  programs selected using the RIM criterion.   NOPSI  filed  a
report  on  September  28,  1994,  with  the  Council  that  discussed
Entergy's  Least  Cost  Plan  activities in  other  jurisdictions  and
described  the motivations for these activities.  NOPSI also  filed  a
motion  requesting that the Council defer the filing of  a  new  Least
Cost  Plan,  which the existing Least Cost Plan ordinance required  on
December  1,  1994.   On  October 6, 1994,  the  Council  approved  an
amendment to the City Code that rescinded the December 1, 1994, filing
requirement  and allowed the Council to set a future date  for  a  new
filing.  The Council's actions also established that there would be  a
set  of  hearings to consider a wide range of Least Cost Plan  issues,
and  that  a  new  filing  date would be established  following  these
hearings.   These rulings do not affect the ongoing DSM programs  that
NOPSI  is  currently  implementing  in  the  City.   The  Council  has
established  a proceeding to consider NOPSI's request for  significant
changes  in the Least Cost Plan Ordinance.  NOPSI's initial  testimony
in  that  matter  was filed on November 17, 1994,  and  has  been  the
subject  of  discovery  requests  from  the  Council's  advisors   and
intervenors.    Initial  testimony  of  the  Council's  advisors   and
intervenors  was  filed February 10, 1995, and rebuttal  testimony  of
all parties was due March 10, 1995.

      In  connection with the settlement of various issues related  to
the  Merger,  the Council adopted a resolution on November  18,  1993,
that   provides  that  the  Council  will  not  disallow   the   first
$3.5  million of costs incurred by NOPSI through October 31, 1993,  in
connection with the Least Cost Plan.

      Fuel Adjustment Clause.  NOPSI's electric rate schedules include
a  fuel adjustment clause to reflect the delivered cost of fuel in the
second  preceding  month, adjusted by a surcharge  for  deferred  fuel
expense  arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual  fuel  cost
incurred  with fuel cost revenues billed to customers.  The adjustment
clause,  on  a  monthly  basis, also reflects the  difference  between
nonfuel  Grand  Gulf 1 costs paid by NOPSI and the  estimate  of  such
costs provided in NOPSI's Grand Gulf 1 Rate Settlements.  NOPSI's  gas
rate  schedules include a gas cost adjustment to reflect gas costs  in
excess of those collected in rates, adjusted by a surcharge similar to
that included in the electric adjustment clause.  NOPSI defers on  its
books  fuel  and  purchased gas costs to be reflected in  billings  to
customers in the future under the fuel adjustment clause.


REGULATION

Federal Regulation

      Holding  Company Act.  Entergy Corporation is a  public  utility
holding  company registered under the Holding Company Act.   As  such,
Entergy  Corporation and its various direct and indirect  subsidiaries
(with  the  exception of its independent power/EWG  subsidiaries)  are
subject  to the broad regulatory provisions of that Act.  Except  with
respect  to  investments in certain EWG projects and  foreign  utility
company  projects (see "Business of Entergy - Competition -  General,"
above  for a discussion of the EPAct), Section 11(b)(1) of the Holding
Company  Act  limits  the operations of a registered  holding  company
system  to a single, integrated public utility system, plus additional
systems and businesses as provided by that section.

      Entergy  Corporation,  along with  ten  other  electric  utility
holding  companies,  recently asked Congress  to  repeal  the  Holding
Company Act.  The Holding Company Act requires oversight by the SEC of
many  business  practices and activities of utility holding  companies
and  their  subsidiaries  including, among  other  things,  nonutility
activities.  Entergy Corporation believes that the Holding Company Act
inhibits  its  ability  to  compete in the  evolving  electric  energy
marketplace,  and largely duplicates the oversight activities  already
performed by FERC and state and local public service commissions.

      Federal  Power  Act.   The  System operating  companies,  System
Energy,  and  Entergy Power are subject to the Federal  Power  Act  as
administered by FERC and the DOE.  The Federal Power Act provides  for
regulatory  jurisdiction over the licensing of  certain  hydroelectric
projects,  the  business of, and facilities for, the transmission  and
sale  at  wholesale  of  electric energy in  interstate  commerce  and
certain  other  activities of the System operating  companies,  System
Energy,  and Entergy Power as interstate electric utilities, including
accounting   policies   and  practices.   Such   regulation   includes
jurisdiction over the rates charged by System Energy for capacity  and
energy provided to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, or others, from  Grand
Gulf 1.

      AP&L holds a license for two hydroelectric projects (70 MW) that
was  renewed  on July 2, 1980.  This license, granted  by  FERC,  will
expire in February 2003.

Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry

      General.   Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954  and  the  Energy
Reorganization Act of 1974, operation of nuclear plants is intensively
regulated  by  the NRC, which has broad power to impose licensing  and
safety-related requirements.  In the event of non-compliance, the  NRC
has  the  authority  to impose fines or shut down  a  unit,  or  both,
depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation,  until
compliance is achieved.  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System Energy, as owners
of all or a portion of ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf 1,
respectively, and Entergy Operations, as the operator of these  units,
are   subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  NRC.   Revised   safety
requirements  promulgated by the NRC have, in the  past,  necessitated
substantial  capital  expenditures  at  System  nuclear   plants   and
additional such expenditures could be required in the future.

      The  nuclear power industry faces uncertainties with respect  to
the  cost  and availability of long-term arrangements for disposal  of
spent   nuclear  fuel  and  other  radioactive  waste,  nuclear  plant
operational  issues,  the  technological  and  financial  aspects   of
decommissioning  plants at the end of their licensed  lives,  and  the
effect  of certain requirements relating to nuclear insurance.   These
matters are briefly discussed below.

      Spent  Fuel and Other High-Level Radioactive Waste.   Under  the
Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE is required, for a specified
fee, to construct storage facilities for, and to dispose of, all spent
nuclear  fuel  and  other high-level radioactive  waste  generated  by
domestic nuclear power reactors.  The NRC, pursuant to this Act,  also
requires operators of nuclear power reactors to enter into spent  fuel
disposal  contracts  with the DOE, and the affected  System  companies
have  entered into such disposal contracts.  However, the DOE has  not
yet identified a permanent storage repository and, as a result, future
expenditures  may be required to increase spent fuel storage  capacity
at  the  plant  sites.  Currently the DOE projects it  will  begin  to
accept  spent fuel no earlier than 2010.  In the meantime, all  System
companies  are  responsible  for spent  fuel  storage.   (For  further
information  concerning spent fuel disposal contracts  with  the  DOE,
schedules for initial shipments of spent nuclear fuel, current on-site
storage  capacity, and costs of providing additional  on-site  storage
capacity,  see  Note 8 of AP&L's, GSU's, and LP&L's,  and  Note  7  of
System  Energy's,  Notes  to  Financial Statements,  "Commitments  and
Contingencies - Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs.")

      Low-Level  Radioactive  Waste.  The  availability  and  cost  of
disposal  facilities  for low-level radioactive waste  resulting  from
normal  operation  of  nuclear  units  are  subject  to  a  number  of
uncertainties.  Under the Low-Level Radioactive Waste  Policy  Act  of
1980,  as amended, each state is responsible for disposal of  its  own
waste,  and  states may join in regional compacts to  jointly  fulfill
their   responsibilities.   The  States  of  Arkansas  and   Louisiana
participate  in  the  Central  States  Compact,  and  the   State   of
Mississippi participates in the Southeast Compact. Two disposal  sites
are  currently operating in the United States, and one of them,  which
is located in  Washington, is closed to out-of-region generators.  The
second  site,  the  Barnwell Disposal Facility (Barnwell)  located  in
South Carolina, is operated by the Southeast Compact and the State  of
Mississippi  is expected to have access to this site through  December
1995.   Barnwell had been open to out-of-region generators  (including
generators in Arkansas and Louisiana) in the past; however,  on  April
14,  1993,  the Southeast Compact voted to deny access to Barnwell  to
members of the Central States Compact.  Such access was reinstated for
the  period  from  October  1993 through  June  1994,  at  which  time
legislative  action  by the State of South Carolina  was  required  to
permit further access to out-of-region generators.  The South Carolina
legislature failed to take action to permit further access to  out-of-
region  generators; therefore, since July 1994, low-level  radioactive
waste  generators in the Central States Compact, including AP&L,  GSU,
and  LP&L,  have  been required to store such waste  on-site  until  a
Central  States Compact facility becomes operational or  another  site
becomes accessible.

      Both  the  Central States Compact and the Southeast Compact  are
working  to  establish additional disposal sites.  The  System,  along
with  other  waste  generators, funds the development  costs  for  new
disposal   facilities.   The  System's  expenditures   to   date   are
approximately $30 million; and future levels of expenditures cannot be
predicted.   Until such facilities are established,  the  System  will
continue to seek access to existing facilities, which may be available
at costs that are higher than those incurred in the past, or which may
be  unavailable.  If such access is unavailable, the System will store
low-level waste on-site at the affected units.

       Decommissioning.   AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  and  System  Energy  are
recovering portions of their estimated decommissioning costs for  ANO,
River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf 1, respectively. These amounts
are  being deposited in external trust funds that, together  with  the
earnings  thereon, can only be used for future decommissioning  costs.
Estimated decommissioning costs are regularly reviewed and updated  to
reflect   inflation  and  changes  in  regulatory   requirements   and
technology,  and  applications will be made to appropriate  regulatory
authorities  to  reflect  in  rates any future  changes  in  projected
decommissioning  costs.  (For additional information with  respect  to
decommissioning costs for ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf
1, respectively, see Note 8 of AP&L's, GSU's, and LP&L's and Note 7 of
System  Energy's  Notes  to  Financial  Statements,  "Commitments  and
Contingencies - Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs.")

     Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fees.  The
EPAct requires all electric utilities (including AP&L, GSU, LP&L,  and
System  Energy) that have purchased uranium enrichment  services  from
the DOE to contribute up to a total of $150 million annually, adjusted
for  inflation,  up to a total of $2.25 billion over approximately  15
years,   for   decommissioning  and  decontamination   of   enrichment
facilities.   AP&L's,  GSU's, LP&L's, and  System  Energy's  estimated
annual contributions to this fund are approximately $3.4 million, $0.9
million, $1.3 million, and $1.4 million, respectively, in 1995 dollars
over  approximately 15 years.  Contributions to this fund  are  to  be
recovered through rates in the same manner as other fuel costs.

       Nuclear  Insurance.   The  Price-Anderson  Act  limits   public
liability for a single nuclear incident to approximately $8.92 billion
as  of  December  31, 1994.  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System  Energy  have
protection  with  respect to this liability through a  combination  of
private  insurance  (currently  $200 million  each)  and  an  industry
assessment program, and also have insurance for property damage, costs
of  replacement power, and other risks relating to nuclear  generating
units.  (For a discussion of insurance applicable to nuclear  programs
of  AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, and System Energy, see Note 7 of System Energy's
and Note 8 of AP&L's, GSU's, and LP&L's Notes to Financial Statements,
and  Note  8  of  Entergy  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries,  Notes   to
Consolidated  Financial Statements, "Commitments and  Contingencies  -
Nuclear Insurance.")

Nuclear Operations

      General.  Entergy Operations operates ANO, River Bend, Waterford
3,  and  Grand  Gulf 1, subject to the owner oversight of  AP&L,  GSU,
LP&L,  and  System Energy, respectively.  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and  System
Energy,  and  the  other Grand Gulf 1 and River Bend  co-owners,  have
retained  their  ownership  interests  in  their  respective   nuclear
generating  units.   AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, and  System  Energy  have  also
retained  their associated capacity and energy entitlements,  and  pay
directly or reimburse Entergy Operations at cost for its operation  of
the units.

      On  June  24,  1992,  the  NRC issued a bulletin  requiring  all
utilities  using  a certain fire barrier material in a  nuclear  power
plant  to take certain actions related to the material.  This material
may  have  been  used in as many as 87 nuclear plants  in  the  United
States, including ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf 1  (see
"River Bend," below for additional information).

     ANO.      ANO 2 experienced a forced outage for repair of certain
steam  generator tubes in March 1992.  Further inspections and repairs
were  conducted  at  subsequent refueling  and  mid-cycle  outages  in
September  1992,  May  1993, April 1994,  and  January  1995.   AP&L's
budgeted maintenance expenditures were adequate to cover the  cost  of
such  repairs.  Unit 2's output has been reduced 15 megawatts or  1.6%
due to secondary side fouling, tube plugging, and reduction of primary
temperature.  Entergy Operations continues to take steps at ANO  2  to
reduce  the  number and severity of future tube cracks.  In  addition,
Entergy  Operations  continues to meet with the NRC  to  discuss  such
steps and results of inspections of the steam generator tubes, as well
as  the  timing  of  future inspections.  Additional  inspections  are
planned for the normal refueling outage scheduled for October 1995.

     On January 13, 1993, in connection with the Merger, GSU filed two
applications  with the NRC to amend the River Bend operating  license.
The  applications  sought the NRC's consent to the  Merger  and  to  a
change  in  the licensed operator of the facility from GSU to  Entergy
Operations.   On August 6, 1993, Cajun filed a petition  to  intervene
and  a request for a hearing in the proceedings.  On January 27, 1994,
the  presiding NRC Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB) issued  an
order granting Cajun's petition to intervene and ordered a hearing  on
one of Cajun's contentions.  On February 15, 1994, GSU filed an appeal
of  the ASLB Order with the NRC.  On December 16, 1993, prior to  this
ASLB ruling, the NRC Staff issued the two license amendments for River
Bend,  making  them  effective immediately upon  consummation  of  the
Merger.   On  February  14, 1994, Cajun filed with  the  D.C.  Circuit
petitions for review of the two license amendments issued by the  NRC.
These two amendments are in full force and effect, but are subject  to
the  outcome  of  the two proceedings.  On August 23,  1994,  the  NRC
issued  an  order disallowing GSU's appeal in the ASLB proceeding  and
upholding  the  ASLB's  January 27, 1994  order.   A  hearing  on  the
proceeding before the ASLB is scheduled to begin May 9, 1995.

State Regulation

      General.   Each of the System operating companies is subject  to
regulation by its respective state and/or local regulatory authorities
with  jurisdiction  over  the  service areas  in  which  each  company
operates.   Such  regulation  includes  authority  to  set  rates  for
electric  and gas service provided at retail.  (See "Rate Matters  and
Regulation - Rate Matters - Retail Rate Matters," above.)

      AP&L  is  subject  to regulation by the APSC and  the  Tennessee
Public  Service  Commission  (TPSC).   APSC  regulation  includes  the
authority to set rates, determine reasonable and adequate service, fix
the  value  of  property used and useful, require  proper  accounting,
control leasing, control the acquisition or sale of any public utility
plant  or property constituting an operating unit or system, set rates
of  depreciation, issue certificates of convenience and necessity  and
certificates  of  environmental compatibility  and  public  need,  and
control  the issuance and sale of securities.  Regulation by the  TPSC
includes  the  authority to set standards of  service  and  rates  for
service  to customers in the state, require proper accounting, control
the  issuance  and  sale  of  securities, and  issue  certificates  of
convenience and necessity.

      GSU  is subject to the jurisdiction of the municipal authorities
of incorporated cities in Texas as to retail rates and services within
their  boundaries,  with  appellate  jurisdiction  over  such  matters
residing  in the PUCT.  GSU is also subject to regulation by the  PUCT
as  to retail rates and services in rural areas, certification of  new
generating plants, and extensions of service into new areas.   GSU  is
subject  to  regulation by the LPSC as to electric  and  gas  service,
rates and charges, certification of generating facilities and power or
capacity purchase contracts, and other matters.

      LP&L is subject to the jurisdiction of the LPSC as to rates  and
charges,  standards  of service, depreciation, accounting,  and  other
matters,  and  is  subject to the jurisdiction  of  the  Council  with
respect to such matters within Algiers.

      MP&L  is  subject  to regulation as to service,  service  areas,
facilities,  and  retail rates by the MPSC.  MP&L is also  subject  to
regulation  by  the  APSC  as  to  the  certificate  of  environmental
compatibility and public need for the Independence Station.

      On October 11, 1994, twelve Mississippi cities filed a complaint
in  state  court  against MP&L and eight electric  power  associations
seeking  a judgment from the court declaring unconstitutional  certain
Mississippi  statutes  that  establish  the  procedure  that  must  be
followed  before  a  municipality  can  acquire  the  facilities   and
certificate   rights  of  a  utility  serving  in  the   municipality.
Specifically,    the   suit   requests   that   the   court    declare
unconstitutional  certain 1987 amendments to  the  Mississippi  Public
Utilities   Act  that  require  that  the  MPSC  cancel  a   utility's
certificate  to  serve in the municipality before a  municipality  may
acquire a utility's facilities located in the municipality.  The  suit
also requests that the court find that Mississippi municipalities  can
serve  any  consumer in the boundaries of the municipality and  within
one  mile  thereof.  Such a finding would be contrary  to  Mississippi
Supreme  Court  decisions that have held that  a  municipality  cannot
serve  in  another  utility's service area even  where  the  municipal
boundaries  extend into such service area.  On January 6,  1995,  MP&L
and  the  other  defendants filed motions to dismiss.  The  matter  is
pending and will be vigorously contested by MP&L.

      NOPSI  is subject to regulation as to electric and gas  service,
rates  and  charges,  standards of service, depreciation,  accounting,
issuance of certain securities, and other matters by the Council.

      Franchises.  AP&L holds exclusive franchises to provide electric
service in 301 incorporated cities and towns in Arkansas, all of which
are  unlimited  in  duration  and  terminable  by  either  party.   In
Arkansas, franchises are considered to be contracts and therefore  are
terminable upon breach of the contract.

      GSU holds non-exclusive franchises, permits, or certificates  of
convenience  and necessity to provide electric and gas service  in  55
incorporated  villages,  cities,  and  towns  in  Louisiana   and   64
incorporated cities and towns in Texas.  GSU ordinarily holds  50-year
franchises  in Texas towns and 60-year franchises in Louisiana  towns.
The  current  terms of GSU's electric franchises will  expire  in  the
years 2007-2036 in Texas and in the years 2015-2046 in Louisiana.  The
natural  gas franchise in the City of Baton Rouge will expire  in  the
year 2015.

      LP&L  holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service
in  116  incorporated  villages, cities,  and  towns.  Most  of  these
franchises  have  25-year terms expiring during the period  1995-2015.
However,  six of these municipalities have granted 60-year franchises,
with  the  last  one expiring in the year 2040.  Of these  franchises,
none has expired to date, one is scheduled to expire as early as 1995,
and  37  are scheduled to expire by year-end 2000.  LP&L also supplies
electric  service in 353 unincorporated communities, all of which  are
located  in  parishes  (counties) from which LP&L holds  non-exclusive
franchises  to serve the areas in which the unincorporated communities
are located.

       MP&L   has  received  from  the  MPSC  certificates  of  public
convenience and necessity to provide electric service to the areas  of
Mississippi   that   MP&L   serves,  which   include   a   number   of
municipalities.   MP&L continues to serve in such municipalities  upon
payment  of  a  statutory  franchise fee,  regardless  of  whether  an
original municipal franchise is still in existence.

      NOPSI  provides  electric and gas service in  the  City  of  New
Orleans  pursuant to city ordinances which state, among other  things,
that the City has a continuing option to purchase NOPSI's electric and
gas utility properties.

      System Energy has no franchises from any municipality or  state.
Its business is currently limited to wholesale sales of power.

Environmental Regulation

      General.  In the areas of air quality, water quality, control of
toxic   substances   and  hazardous  and  solid  wastes,   and   other
environmental matters, Entergy's facilities and operations are subject
to  regulation  by  various  federal, state,  and  local  authorities.
Entergy  considers itself to be in substantial compliance  with  those
environmental  regulations currently applicable to its facilities  and
operations.  Entergy has incurred increased costs of construction  and
other  increased costs in meeting environmental protection  standards.
Because  environmental  regulations  are  continually  changing,   the
ultimate compliance costs to Entergy cannot be precisely estimated  at
any one time.  However, Entergy currently estimates that its potential
capital  expenditures  for environmental control  purposes,  including
those  discussed  in  "Clean  Air Legislation,"  below,  will  not  be
material for the System as a whole.

     Clean Air Legislation.  The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the
Act)  set  up  three  programs, acid rain for control  of  sulfur  and
nitrogen oxides (NOx), ozone nonattainment area for control of NOx and
volatile  organic compounds, and operating permits for  administration
and enforcement of these and other Clean Air Act programs.

     Under the acid rain program, no additional control equipment will
be  required  to  control  sulfur dioxide.  Regarding  sulfur  dioxide
emissions,  the  Act provides "allowances" to most Entergy  generating
units  based  upon past emission levels and operating characteristics.
Each allowance is an entitlement to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide per
year.  Under the Act, utilities will be required to possess allowances
for  sulfur dioxide emissions from affected generating units.  All  of
Entergy's  generating units are classified as "Phase II"  units  under
the  Act  and  are  therefore  subject  to  sulfur  dioxide  allowance
requirements beginning in the year 2000. Based on Entergy's  operating
history,  it  is considered a "clean" utility and as  such   has  been
allocated  more  allowances than are currently  necessary  for  normal
operations. Entergy believes that it will be able to operate its units
efficiently without installing scrubbers or purchasing allowances from
outside sources, and may have excess allowances available for sale  to
others.

     In addition, Entergy has installed additional continuous emission
monitoring  (CEM)  equipment at its base load and  cycling  generating
units  to  comply with EPA regulations under the Act.  Additional  CEM
equipment  will be installed at peaking generating units  in  1995  to
comply with the regulations at an estimated cost of $3.0 million.

      Under  ozone nonattainment programs in the area served  by  GSU,
control  equipment  may  eventually be  required  for  nitrogen  oxide
reductions  due to the ozone nonattainment status of the Baton  Rouge,
Louisiana  and  Beaumont and Houston, Texas, areas. These  states  are
studying the causes of ozone pollution in these areas and will  decide
during  1995  whether  to require controls in these  areas.   If   the
states  decide to regulate NOx, the cost of such control equipment  is
estimated at $16.0 million through 1997.

      Under  Title  V  of  the Act, EPA promulgated  operating  permit
regulations in 1994 that may set new operating criteria for the fossil
plants   relating  to  fuels,  emissions,  and  equipment  maintenance
practices.  Entergy may also have to install additional CEM  equipment
as  a  result  of  these permits.  The extent  of  the  cost  will  be
determined  on  a  state by state basis as plants are granted  permits
during 1995 and 1996. Any capital and operation and maintenance  costs
will  begin  in  1996 and 1997.  The authority to impose  permit  fees
under  this  program  has been delegated to the  states  by  EPA  and,
depending  on the extent of the state program and the fees imposed  by
each  state  regulatory authority, permit fees for  the  System  could
range from $1.6 to $5.0 million annually.

       Entergy  currently  estimates  that  future  capital  costs  of
approximately  $16.0  million for NOx control and  approximately  $3.0
million  for  CEM  could be required to comply with the  Act.   During
1994, Entergy incurred capital costs of approximately $5.7 million for
NOx control and approximately $14.7 million for CEM.

     There are several other areas, such as air toxins and visibility,
that  will require regulatory study and rule promulgation to determine
whether pollution control equipment is necessary.

     Other Environmental Matters.  The provisions of the Comprehensive
Environmental  Response, Compensation and Liability Act  of  1980,  as
amended  (Superfund),  among  other things,  authorize  the  EPA  and,
indirectly,   the  states  to  require  the  generators  and   certain
transporters  of certain hazardous substances released from  or  at  a
site,  and the owners or operators of such site, to clean up the  site
or reimburse the costs therefor.  This statute has been interpreted to
impose  joint  and  several  liability  on  responsible  parties.   In
compliance with applicable laws and regulations in effect at the time,
the  System  operating companies have sent waste materials to  various
disposal  sites  over the years.  Also, past operating procedures  and
maintenance  practices, which were not subject to regulation  at  that
time,  are now regulated by various environmental laws.  Some of these
sites  have  been the subject of governmental action, thereby  causing
one or more of the System operating companies to be involved with site
cleanup  activities.  The System operating companies have participated
to  various  degrees in accordance with their potential  liability  in
these  site  cleanups and have, therefore, developed  experience  with
cleanup costs.  Their experience in these matters, and their judgments
related  thereto, are utilized by them in evaluating these sites.   In
addition, the System operating companies have established reserves for
environmental clean-up/restoration activities.

      AP&L.  AP&L has received notices from time to time between  1989
and  1993, from the EPA, the Arkansas Department of Pollution  Control
and  Ecology  (ADPC&E),  and others that it  (among  numerous  others,
including  various  utilities, municipalities and  other  governmental
units,  and  major  corporations) may  be  a  PRP  for  cleanup  costs
associated  with various sites in Arkansas.  Most of these  sites  are
neither owned nor operated by any System company.  Contaminants at the
sites include principally polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), lead,  and
other hazardous wastes. These sites and others are described below.

      AP&L  received notices from the EPA and ADPC&E in 1990 and 1991,
identifying  it  as one of 30 PRPs (along with LP&L and  GSU)  at  one
Saline County site in Arkansas.  The site was  contaminated with  PCBs
and  lead.   AP&L actively participated with the cleanup of the  site,
which  was completed in 1994.  EPA has reviewed and accepted the  site
remediation   and   closure  report.   AP&L  to  date   has   expended
approximately  $1.0  million at the site and does not  anticipate  any
significant  additional  expenditures.   The  EPA  has  discovered  an
additional site in Saline County that is similar to the site mentioned
above and could involve many of the same PRPs.  At EPA's request, AP&L
voluntarily performed stabilization activities at the site.   EPA  has
indicated  that the records associated with the site are inconclusive,
therefore  no PRPs have been named at this time.  AP&L, LP&L  and  GSU
believe their potential liability for this site, if any, will  not  be
material.

      Reynolds Metals Company (RMC) and AP&L notified the EPA in  1989
of  possible  PCB  contamination at two  former  RMC  plant  sites  in
Arkansas to which AP&L had supplied power.  AP&L completed remediation
at  the substations serving the plant sites at a cost of $1.7 million.
Additional  PCB  contamination was found in a portion  of  a  drainage
ditch  that  flows from the RMC's Patterson facility to  the  Ouachita
River.   RMC  has  demanded that AP&L participate in  the  remediation
efforts  with respect to the ditch.  AP&L and independent  contractors
engaged  by AP&L conducted an investigation of the ditch contamination
and the potential migration of PCBs from the electrical equipment that
AP&L  maintained  at  the  plant.  The  investigation  concluded  that
little,  if  any,  of the contamination was caused  by  AP&L.   AP&L's
expenditures  thus far on the ditch have been approximately  $150,000.
It  is  AP&L's  understanding that RMC has spent  approximately  $10.0
million to complete remediation of the ditch contamination.  AP&L  has
not  received a notice from the EPA that it may be a PRP with  respect
to   remediation  costs  for  this  site.   However,  RMC  is  seeking
reimbursement of $5.0 million (50% of expenditures) from  AP&L.   AP&L
continues to deny responsibility for any of such remediation costs and
believes that its potential liability, if any, for this site will  not
be material.

      AP&L  entered into a Consent Administrative Order dated February
21,  1991,  with  the ADPC&E that named AP&L as a PRP for  cleanup  of
contamination  associated  with  the Utilities  Services,  Inc.  state
superfund site located near Rison, Arkansas.  Such site was  found  to
have   soil  contaminated  by  PCBs  and  pentachlorophenol  (a   wood
preservative  chemical).  Also, containers and  drums  that  contained
PCBs  and  other hazardous substances were found at the site.   AP&L's
share  of  total remediation costs is estimated to range between  $3.0
million  and $5.0 million.  AP&L is attempting to identify and  notify
other PRPs.  AP&L has received assurances from the ADPC&E that it will
use  its enforcement authority to allocate remediation expenses  among
AP&L  and any other PRPs that can be identified (approximately 20 have
been identified to date).  AP&L has performed the activities necessary
to  stabilize the site, which to date has cost approximately $348,000.
AP&L  believes that its potential liability for this site will not  be
material.

      As  a  result of an internal investigation, AP&L has  discovered
soil  contamination  at two AP&L-owned sites located  in  Blytheville,
Arkansas, and Pine Bluff, Arkansas.  The contamination appears to be a
result  of past operating procedures that were performed prior to  any
applicable  environmental  regulation.  AP&L  has  investigated  these
sites  to  determine  the  full extent of the  contamination  and  has
stabilized  the sites at an aggregate cost of approximately  $250,000.
AP&L  estimates the remediation cost for both sites to  be  less  than
$1.0 million.

      GSU.   GSU  has  been  notified by the  EPA  that  it  has  been
designated  as a PRP for the cleanup of sites on which GSU and  others
have,  or  have been alleged to have, disposed of hazardous materials.
GSU   is  currently  negotiating  with  the  EPA  and  various   state
authorities  regarding the cleanup of some of  these  sites.   Several
class  action and other suits have been filed seeking relief from  GSU
and  others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste  and
for asbestos-related disease that allegedly occurred from exposure  on
GSU  premises  or  on  premises on which  GSU  allegedly  disposed  of
materials (see "Other Regulation and Litigation - GSU," below).  While
the  amounts  at issue in the cleanup efforts and suits  may  be  very
substantial sums, management believes that its financial condition and
results  of operations will not be materially affected by the  outcome
of  the clean-ups and the suits.  These environmental liabilities  are
described below.

       In  1971,  GSU  purchased  certain  property  near  its  Sabine
generating  station  for possible cooling water capability  expansion.
Although  it  was  not known to GSU at the time of the  purchase,  the
property  was utilized by area industries in the 1950's and 1960's  as
an  industrial waste dump.  GSU sold the property in 1984.  In October
1984  the  abandoned waste site on the property was  included  on  the
Superfund  National Priorities List (NPL) by the  EPA.   The  EPA  has
indicated  that it believes GSU to be a PRP for cleanup  of  the  site
based on its past ownership.  GSU has advised the EPA that it does not
believe that it has such responsibility.  GSU has pursued negotiations
with the EPA and is a member of a task force made up of other PRPs for
the  voluntary cleanup of the waste site.  A Consent Decree  has  been
signed  by  all parties. The ultimate costs for the voluntary  cleanup
are  not known because additional wastes have been discovered  at  the
site since the original cleanup costs were estimated, however they are
expected  to  be  at  least  $15.0  million.   GSU  has  negotiated  a
responsible share of 2.26% of the estimated cleanup cost.  Federal and
state   agencies   are   presently  examining  potential   liabilities
associated  with natural resource damages.  This matter  is  currently
under  negotiation with the other PRPs and the agencies. GSU does  not
presently  believe that its ultimate responsibility  with  respect  to
this  site  will  be material after allowance for previously  reserved
amounts.

      In March 1993, GSU completed its cleanup activities at a site in
Houston, Texas, which is included in the NPL.  On September 20,  1993,
GSU received formal notification from the EPA of its acceptance of the
remedial  activities conducted at the site.  Currently, other  parties
are conducting cleanup activities at the site.  However, these cleanup
activities  are unrelated to GSU's involvement at the  site.   Through
1994,  GSU  incurred  cleanup  costs of  approximately  $3.3  million.
Pursuant to the Consent Decree, GSU is responsible for oversight costs
incurred by the EPA.  GSU has not received a reimbursement request for
outstanding  oversight costs, but anticipates these  costs  may  total
between  $250,000 and $500,000.  GSU is pursuing contribution for  the
cleanup  costs  at  the  site  from  other  parties  believed  to   be
potentially responsible.

       GSU   is   currently   involved  in  a  multi-phased   remedial
investigation  of  an  abandoned manufactured  gas  plant  (MGP)  site
located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  The property was the site  of  an
MGP  that  is  believed  to  have  operated  during  the  period  from
approximately   1916  to  1931.   Coal  tar,  a  by-product   of   the
distillation  process,  was apparently routed  to  a  portion  of  the
property for disposal.  Since GSU purchased the property in 1926,  the
same  area  has  been  filled with soil and used  as  a  landfill  for
miscellaneous items including electrical poles, electrical  equipment,
and  other  debris.   Under  an Order by the Louisiana  Department  of
Environmental  Quality  (LDEQ), which is  currently  stayed,  GSU  was
required to investigate and, if necessary, take remedial action at the
site.   On February 13, 1995 the EPA published a proposed rule  adding
the Lake Charles site to the NPL.  Another PRP has been identified and
is  believed to have had a role in the ownership and operation of  the
MGP.   Negotiations with that company for joint participation and  any
remedial  action are expected to continue.  GSU currently is  awaiting
notification  from  the  EPA  before  initiating  additional   cleanup
negotiations or actions.  While studies to determine the  location  of
the  coal  tar have been conducted, the cleanup costs of the site  are
unknown.   GSU   does   not  presently  believe  that   its   ultimate
responsibility  with  respect  to this site  will  be  material  after
allowance for previously reserved amounts.

      GSU has also been advised that it has been named as a PRP, along
with  a  number of other companies (including LP&L), for an  abandoned
waste  oil recycling plant site in Livingston Parish, Louisiana, which
is  included  on the NPL.  Although significant remediation  has  been
completed, additional studies are expected to continue in  1995.   GSU
and  LP&L  have  been  named as defendants in a class  action  lawsuit
lodged  against  a  group  of PRPs associated  with  the  site.   (For
information  regarding litigation in connection  with  the  Livingston
Parish site, see "Other Regulation and Litigation - GSU," below.)  GSU
does  not  presently  believe  that its ultimate  responsibility  with
respect to this site will be material.

      GSU  received  notification in 1992 from the  EPA  of  potential
liability at a site located in Iota, Louisiana.  This site accepted  a
variety of wastes, including medical and chemical wastes.  In addition
to  GSU,  over  200  parties have been named  as  PRPs.   The  EPA  is
continuing its investigation of the site and has notified the PRPs  of
the  possibility of this site being linked to another site.  To  date,
GSU  has  not  received notification of liability with regard  to  the
other   site.    GSU   does   not  presently  believe   its   ultimate
responsibility with respect to this site will be material.

      GSU,  along  with AP&L and LP&L, was notified  in  1990  of  its
potential liability at a site  located in Saline County, Arkansas (see
"AP&L"  above).  GSU believes its responsibility to be de  minimus  at
the  one  site where the cleanup has been completed and  also  at  the
additional site.

      LP&L and NOPSI.  LP&L and NOPSI have received notices from  time
to  time  between  1986  and 1993 from the EPA and/or  the  states  of
Louisiana and Mississippi that one or both of the companies may  be  a
PRP  for  cleanup  costs  associated  with  disposal  sites  that  are
currently  in  various  stages of remediation in  Arkansas,  Illinois,
Louisiana,  Mississippi,  and Missouri  that  are  neither  owned  nor
operated by any System company.

      As  to one Missouri site, LP&L's and NOPSI's aggregate liability
is  currently estimated not to exceed $558,000.  Because of  the  type
and the large number of PRPs (over 700, including many large utilities
and  national and international corporations), LP&L and NOPSI  do  not
expect liabilities in excess of this amount.

      As to the two Saline County, Arkansas, sites (see "AP&L" above),
LP&L  (along with GSU) believes its responsibilities to be de  minimus
because of its limited scope of involvement and the number and  nature
of  PRPs . LP&L received notice from the EPA in November 1992, that it
(along  with  AP&L) was involved in the Union County, Arkansas,  site.
An  agreement  has  been negotiated  and settled  with  the  EPA  that
determined  LP&L  to be a de minimus party with a total  liability  of
approximately $28,000 (see "AP&L," above).

      As  to  one  Mississippi site, LP&L (along with  System  Energy)
understands that EPA has expended approximately $740,000 for this site
(three separate locations being treated administratively as one).  The
State  of Mississippi has indicated it intends to have PRPs conduct  a
cleanup  of  the site but has not yet taken formal action.   LP&L  has
expended  $22,300 to settle with the EPA for its costs for  this  site
and,  because there are 44 PRPs for this site (including a  number  of
major oil companies), does not expect its share of future costs to  be
material.

      NOPSI  received  notice from the EPA with respect  to  a  second
Mississippi site in the fall of 1994.  NOPSI has advised  the  EPA  in
connection  with  that site that (1) the natural gas condensate  NOPSI
sold  in  1983 and 1984 is excluded from the definition of  "hazardous
waste"  under Superfund and (2) NOPSI is not aware that such  material
was  ever shipped to the site in question.  NOPSI believes it  is  not
liable  with  regard to the $298,000 which EPA allegedly  incurred  in
conducting operations at the site.

     With respect to the Livingston Parish, Louisiana, site (involving
at  least 70 PRPs, including GSU and many other large and creditworthy
corporations),  LP&L  has  found in its records  no  evidence  of  its
involvement. (For information regarding litigation in connection  with
the  Livingston  Parish site, see "Other Regulation and  Litigation  -
LP&L,"  below.)  At a second Louisiana site (also included on the  NPL
and  involving  57  PRPs, including a number of  major  corporations),
NOPSI  believes it has no liability for the site because the  material
it sent to the site was not a hazardous substance.

      During 1994, impact assessments were conducted at a power  plant
owned  and operated by LP&L.  Initial groundwater information is being
collected  for  submittal  to LDEQ.  Remediation  strategies  will  be
formulated  to  restore  the  area  to  acceptable  conditions.   LP&L
estimates costs to be approximately $135,000.

      From  1992 to 1994, LP&L performed site assessments and remedial
activities  at two retired power plants previously owned and  operated
by  two Louisiana municipalities.  LP&L purchased the power plants, as
part  of the acquisition of municipal electric systems after operating
them  for  the last few years of their useful lives.  The  assessments
indicated  some  subsurface contamination  from  fuel  oil.  LP&L  has
completed  all remediation work to the LDEQ's satisfaction  for  these
two   former  generating  plants,  and  follow-up  sampling  has  been
completed  at one site. Sampling at the other site is expected  to  be
completed   in   1996.   Because  of  LDEQ  solid  waste   regulations
promulgated in 1993, LP&L in 1994 began to close a surface impoundment
at  another municipal plant site now owned and operated by LP&L.  With
regard   to  hydrocarbons  found  in  some  ground  water   near   the
impoundment, additional assessment activities pursuant to LDEQ  review
were  completed in January 1995. A report on such activities was filed
with the LDEQ in February 1995.

       During  1993,  the  LDEQ  issued  new  rules  for  solid  waste
regulation,  including waste water impoundments.  LP&L has  determined
that  certain of its power plant waste water impoundments are affected
by  these regulations and has chosen to either upgrade or close  them.
The  aggregate cost of the upgrades and closures, to be  completed  by
1996, is estimated to be $16 million.

      System Energy.  In February 1990, System Energy received an  EPA
notice  that  it  may be a PRP along with numerous other  parties  for
cleanup  costs associated with the same site in Mississippi  in  which
LP&L  is  involved.   Potential liability  is  based  on  the  alleged
shipment  of  waste oil to the site from 1981 to 1985.  System  Energy
does  not  expect its share of the total expenditures to  be  material
because  there are 44 PRPs for this site, including a number of  major
oil companies.

Other Regulation and Litigation

      Entergy  Corporation and GSU.  In July and August 1992,  Entergy
Corporation  and GSU filed applications with FERC, the LPSC,  and  the
PUCT,   and  Entergy  Corporation,  Entergy  Operations,  and  Entergy
Services  filed an application with the SEC under the Holding  Company
Act,  seeking  authorization of various aspects  of  the  Merger.   In
January 1993, GSU filed two applications with the NRC seeking approval
of  the  change in ownership of GSU and an amendment to the  operating
license for River Bend to reflect its operation by Entergy Operations.
All  regulatory  approvals were obtained in 1993 and  the  Merger  was
consummated on December 31, 1993, (see "Business of Entergy -  Entergy
Corporation-GSU Merger," above, for further information).

      FERC's December 15, 1993, and May 17, 1994, orders approving the
Merger  were  appealed to the United States Court of Appeals  for  the
District  of  Columbia  Circuit by Entergy  Services,  the  City,  the
Arkansas Electric Energy Consumers (AEEC), the APSC, Cajun, the  MPSC,
the  American  Forest and Paper Association, the State of Mississippi,
the  Cities  of Benton and others, and Occidental Chemical Corporation
(Occidental).  Entergy seeks review of FERC's deletion of a 40% cap on
the  amount of fuel savings GSU may be required to transfer  to  other
Entergy  operating  companies under a tracking mechanism  designed  to
protect the other companies from certain unexpected increases in  fuel
costs.  The other parties are seeking to overturn FERC's decisions  on
various  grounds,  including the issues of whether FERC  appropriately
conditioned  the  Merger  to protect various interested  parties  from
alleged  harm and FERC's reliance on Entergy's transmission tariff  to
mitigate any potential anticompetitive impacts of the Merger.

      On November 18, 1994, the D. C. Circuit denied motions filed  by
Cajun, Occidental, and AEEC for a remand to FERC and a partial summary
grant of the petitions for review.  At the same time, the D.C. Circuit
ordered that the cases be held in abeyance pending FERC's issuance  of
(1)   a  final  order  on  remand  in  the  proceedings  on  Entergy's
transmission  tariff, citing its July 12, 1994, opinion  discussed  in
"Rate Matters and Regulation - Rate Matters - Wholesale Rate Matters -
Open Access Transmission," and (2) a final order on competition issues
in the proceedings on the Merger.

      On  December 30, 1993, Entergy Services submitted to FERC tariff
revisions to comply with FERC's December 15, 1993, order approving the
Merger.   On  February 4, 1994, the APSC and AEEC filed  with  FERC  a
joint  protest  to the compliance filing.  They alleged  that  Entergy
must  insulate the ratepayers of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI from  all
litigation  liabilities related to GSU's River Bend nuclear  facility.
In  its  May  17,  1994, order on rehearing, FERC addressed  Entergy's
commitment  to insulate the customers of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI
against  liability resulting from certain litigation  involving  River
Bend.   In  response to FERC's clarification of Entergy's  commitment,
Entergy  Services filed a compliance filing on June  16,  1994,  which
amended  certain System Agreement language submitted with the December
30,   1993,  filing.   APSC  and  AEEC  subsequently  filed   protests
questioning  the  adequacy  of Entergy's  June  16,  1994,  compliance
filing.   Entergy filed an answer to the protest reiterating its  full
compliance  with  the requirements of FERC's May 17,  1994,  order  on
rehearing.  FERC has not yet acted on the compliance filings.

      On  February  14,  1994,  Cajun filed with  the  D.  C.  Circuit
petitions  for  review  of the NRC's issuance  of  two  Merger-related
license amendments for River Bend.  The D. C. Circuit consolidated the
cases and assigned the cases to be heard by the same panel and on  the
same day as the petitions to review the SEC Merger-related orders.  On
December  29,  1994,  the D. C. Circuit, citing  its  July  12,  1994,
opinion  discussed in "Rate Matters and Regulation -  Rate  Matters  -
Wholesale  Rate  Matters  -  Open Access  Transmission,"  ordered  the
parties  to  file motions governing further proceedings within  thirty
days.   Subsequently, the NRC and Entergy requested  that  the  D.  C.
Circuit  hold the case in abeyance; Cajun asked the D. C.  Circuit  to
remand  the  proceedings  to the NRC.  On March  14,  1995,  the  D.C.
Circuit  denied the NRC's and Entergy's request, ordered the  original
NRC  order be set aside, and remanded the case to the NRC for  further
consideration.

      Requests for rehearing of the SEC order were filed with the  SEC
by  Houston  Industries  Incorporated and  Houston  Lighting  &  Power
Company on December 28, 1993, and petitions for review seeking to  set
aside  the SEC order were filed with the D.C. Circuit by these parties
on  February 15, 1994, and by Cajun on February 14, 1994.  The  matter
has  been  remanded  by  the  D.C. Circuit  to  the  SEC  for  further
consideration in light of developments at FERC relating  to  Entergy's
transmission tariffs.

      See "Nuclear Operations - River Bend," above for information  on
challenges to the NRC's approval of GSU's applications.

     Appeals seeking to set aside the LPSC order related to the Merger
were  filed in the 19th Judicial District Court for the Parish of East
Baton  Rouge, Louisiana, by Houston Lighting & Power Company on August
13,  1993,  and by the Alliance for Affordable Energy, Inc. on  August
20, 1993.  Subsequently, on February 9, 1994, Houston Lighting & Power
Company  filed a motion voluntarily dismissing its appeal. On February
9, 1995, the 19th Judicial District Court ruled that there was no duty
on  the  part  of  the LPSC to consider environmental issues  in  this
matter and, accordingly, dismissed the claim of the Alliance based  on
those  grounds.  The Alliance appealed this ruling  to  the  Louisiana
Supreme Court. The matter is pending.

      AP&L.  Three lawsuits (which have been consolidated) were  filed
in the Arkansas District Court by numerous plaintiffs against AP&L and
Entergy Services in connection with the operation of two dams during a
period  of heavy rainfall and flooding in May  1990.  The consolidated
lawsuits  sought  approximately $14.4 million in property  losses  and
other compensatory damages, and $500 million in punitive damages.   In
their  responses  to  these  complaints,  AP&L  and  Entergy  Services
asserted, among other things, that AP&L owns flowage easements  giving
it  the permanent right to inundate the lands owned or occupied by the
plaintiffs  in  connection with the operation of the  dams.   In  June
1991,  the  Arkansas District Court granted summary judgment  to  AP&L
with  respect  to  the  enforceability of its  flowage  easements.  In
November   1991,  the  Arkansas  District  Court  ruled  that  Entergy
Services  was entitled to the benefit of AP&L's flowage easements,  in
effect, removing from consideration damages in the approximate  amount
of  $13.5 million alleged to have occurred within the areas covered by
the  easements.   As  a  result, over 300 plaintiffs  claiming  damage
within  the  easements  were dismissed from the consolidated  case  in
December   1991.   Certain plaintiffs appealed  these  orders  to  the
Eighth Circuit, which appeal was denied in March 1992.  Following  the
Eighth  Circuit's  denial  of  their  interlocutory  appeal  from  the
Arkansas  District Court's orders, certain of the plaintiffs,  without
prejudice to their right to refile, voluntarily dismissed their claims
which  had  not  been  disposed of in the  Arkansas  District  Court's
orders,  thus  making  the orders a final adjudication,  and  appealed
these orders to the Eighth Circuit.  The remaining plaintiffs obtained
a  stay and an administrative termination of their claims, pending the
outcome of the appeal.  In December 1993, a three-judge panel  of  the
Eighth  Circuit  filed  its  opinion affirming  the  judgment  of  the
Arkansas  District  Court  and  entered  judgment  accordingly.    The
plaintiffs  appealing  the  Arkansas  District  Court's  orders  filed
petitions with the Eighth Circuit for a rehearing by the entire  Court
sitting en banc, which petitions were denied.  These plaintiffs failed
timely  to  petition  the  U.S. Supreme  Court  to  issue  a  writ  of
certiorari  to  permit  its review of the Eighth  Circuit's  decision,
thereby  concluding this aspect of the litigation.   On  February  10,
1995,  the plaintiffs who had voluntarily dismissed their claims,  and
as  to  whom  the  flowage  easements did not  apply,  petitioned  the
Arkansas District Court to reopen the proceedings as to their  claims.
AP&L and Entergy Services will respond to the petition by opposing the
reopening  of  this  aspect of the litigation on the  basis  that  the
applicable  statutes  of  limitation were  not  tolled  by  the  order
permitting  the voluntary dismissal of the claims and that  the  delay
since final resolution of the appeals is unreasonable.

      GSU.   Between  1986  and 1993, GSU and approximately  70  other
defendants,  including  many national and international  corporations,
including  LP&L, have been sued in 17 suits in the Livingston  Parish,
Louisiana  District  Court  (State District  Court)  by  a  number  of
plaintiffs  who allegedly suffered damage or injury, or are  survivors
of  persons  who allegedly died, as a result of exposure to "hazardous
toxic  waste"  that  emanated from a site in Livingston  Parish.   The
plaintiffs  alleged  that  the defendants generated,  transported,  or
participated in the storage of such wastes at the facility, which  was
previously  operated as a waste oil recycling facility.   These  State
District Court suits, which seek damages in total amounts ranging from
$1.0  million  to $10.0 billion and are now consolidated  in  a  class
action,  and three federal suits in three states other than  Louisiana
involving issues arising from the same facility, have been removed and
transferred, respectively, to the U.S. District Court for  the  Middle
District of Louisiana (Federal District Court).  On June 23, 1994, the
Federal  District  Court  entered  into  the  record  its  first  case
management and scheduling order, which order, among other things,  set
the  trial  in  this matter for September 3, 1996.   Such  order  also
stated  the  intention  of the Federal District Court  to  facilitate,
prior to the scheduled trial date, appellate review of any significant
decisions.   At  an  April  28, 1994 status  conference,  the  Federal
District  Court  judge stated that he intended to  adopt  the  Federal
magistrate's recommendation that the class action not be  remanded  to
the  State District Court.  On January 26, 1995, the Federal  District
Court certified the plaintiffs' lawsuit as a Federal class action.   A
trial  date  of  April 11, 1994, previously set by the State  District
Court was not met.  The matter is pending.

      In October 1989, an amended lawsuit petition was filed on behalf
of  985  plaintiffs in the District Court of Jefferson County,  Texas,
60th  Judicial  District  in  Beaumont, Texas,  naming  55  defendants
including GSU.  In February 1990, another amended lawsuit petition was
filed  in a different state District Court in Jefferson County, Texas,
on  behalf  of over 200 plaintiffs (subsequently amended to include  a
total  of 660) naming 127 defendants, including GSU.  Possibly 300  to
400  or  more  of  the plaintiffs in Texas may have  worked  at  GSU's
premises.   Two  similar suits also have been filed  in  the  District
Courts of Jefferson County, Texas, one on behalf of approximately  210
plaintiffs against about 122 defendants, including GSU, and the  other
on behalf of about 136 plaintiffs against approximately 63 defendants,
including  GSU.   In  these  two suits together,  possibly  60  to  70
plaintiffs  may  have worked at GSU.  These two suits  have  not  been
settled.   At  least five other individual suits have  been  filed  in
Beaumont  against GSU and others, seeking damages for alleged asbestos
exposure.  All of the plaintiffs in such suits are also suing GSU  and
all  other  defendants on a conspiracy count.  There are 25  asbestos-
related  law  suits  filed  in  the 14th Judicial  District  Court  of
Calcasieu Parish in Lake Charles, Louisiana, on behalf of an aggregate
of  53  plaintiffs naming from 16 to 24 defendants including GSU,  and
GSU is aware of as many as 61 additional cases that may be filed.  The
suits  allege  that  each  plaintiff  contracted  an  asbestos-related
disease  from exposure to asbestos insulation products on the premises
of  such  defendants.  Settlements of the two largest of the Jefferson
County suits (involving about 1660 groups of claimants) and all of the
suits  in  Calcasieu Parish were consummated in the second  and  third
quarters  of 1994.  GSU was named as one of a number of defendants  in
nearly  all  of  the  suits.  GSU's share of the settlements  was  not
material to its financial position or results of operations.

      On  February 3, 1984, Dow Chemical Company filed a request  with
the  LPSC for a hearing to consider issues related to the purchase  of
cogenerated power by GSU.  Other industries subsequently filed similar
requests  and  the matters were consolidated.  In November  1984,  the
LPSC  completed hearings on rules, policies, and pricing methodologies
applicable  to cogeneration.  Key issues were whether or not  (1)  GSU
should  be required to pay the industries for avoided capacity  costs,
and  (2)  GSU  should  be  required to wheel  power  to  or  from  the
industrial  plants.  Although the matter is still pending  before  the
LPSC, the LPSC did set interim rates, subject to refund by either  Dow
or GSU, which exclude capacity costs.

      GSU/Cajun  -  GSU  has significant business  relationships  with
Cajun,  including co-ownership of River Bend and Big Cajun 2, Unit  3.
GSU  and  Cajun  own 70% and 30% undivided interests  in  River  Bend,
respectively, and 42% and 58% undivided interests in Big Cajun 2, Unit
3, respectively.

      Cajun/River Bend Litigation - In June 1989, Cajun filed a  civil
action  against GSU in the United States District Court for the Middle
District  of Louisiana (District Court).  Cajun's complaint  seeks  to
annul,   rescind,  terminate,  and/or  dissolve  the  Joint  Ownership
Participation and Operating Agreement entered into on August 28,  1979
(Operating Agreement) relating to River Bend.  Cajun alleges fraud and
error  by  GSU,  breach of its fiduciary duties owed to Cajun,  and/or
GSU's  repudiation, renunciation, abandonment, or dissolution  of  its
core obligations under the Operating Agreement, as well as the lack or
failure  of  cause and/or consideration for Cajun's performance  under
the  Operating  Agreement.   The suit also seeks  to  recover  Cajun's
alleged  $1.6  billion  investment  in  the  unit  as  damages,   plus
attorneys'  fees,  interest, and costs. On November  25,  1992,  Dixie
Electric  Membership  Corporation  and  Southwest  Louisiana  Electric
Membership Corporation, both members of Cajun, filed suit in the  U.S.
District  Court  for  the  Western District  of  Louisiana  seeking  a
declaration that the Operating Agreement between GSU and Cajun is void
because  an  allegedly  required approval of the  LPSC  had  not  been
obtained.  This suit was transferred from the Western District to  the
Middle  District.   GSU believes the suits are without  merit  and  is
contesting them vigorously.

      A  trial  without jury on the portion of the suit  by  Cajun  to
rescind  the  Operating Agreement which began in April 1994  has  been
completed,  and  an  order from the District  Court  is  pending.   No
assurance can be given as to the outcome of this litigation.   If  GSU
were  ultimately unsuccessful in this litigation and were required  to
make  substantial payments, GSU would probably be unable to make  such
payments  and  would probably have to seek relief from  its  creditors
under  the  United  States Bankruptcy Code.  If GSU prevails  in  this
litigation,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  United   States
Bankruptcy  Court will allow funding of all required costs of  Cajun's
ownership in River Bend.

      Since  1992  Cajun has not paid its full share of operating  and
maintenance  expenses and other costs for repairs and improvements  to
River  Bend.   In addition, certain costs and expenses paid  by  Cajun
were  paid under protest.  These actions were taken by Cajun based  on
its  contention, which GSU disagrees, that River Bend's operating  and
maintenance expenses were excessive.

      In a letter dated October 21, 1994, and at a subsequent meeting,
Cajun  representatives advised Entergy Corporation and  GSU  that,  on
October  25,  1994, Cajun would exhaust its 1994 budget for  operating
and  maintenance expenses for River Bend, and did not make any further
payments  to  GSU  in  1994 for River Bend operating,  maintenance  or
capital  costs.   Cajun  also advised that  the  RUS  (which  provided
funding  to  Cajun for its investment in River Bend) would not  permit
Cajun  to  budget  funds  in 1995 to pay its share  of  operating  and
maintenance expenses or capital costs for River Bend.  However,  Cajun
stated  that  it  would  continue to fund its  share  of  the  nuclear
decommissioning  trust payments for River Bend, as well  as  insurance
and safety-related expenses.  The unpaid portion of Cajun's River Bend
operating,  maintenance, and capital costs for 1994 was  approximately
$22.4  million.   Cajun's total share of River Bend  annual  operating
(including  nuclear fuel) and maintenance expenses and  capital  costs
was approximately $76.1 million in 1994.

      In  view of Cajun's stated expectation that it will fund only  a
limited  portion  of  its  share  of  River  Bend  related  operating,
maintenance, and capital costs, GSU notified Cajun that it  would  (i)
credit GSU's share of expenses for Big Cajun 2, Unit 3 against amounts
due  from  Cajun to GSU and (ii) seek to market Cajun's share  of  the
power  from River Bend and apply the proceeds to the amounts due  from
Cajun   to  GSU.   On  November  2,  1994,  Cajun  discontinued  GSU's
entitlement  of  energy from Big Cajun 2, Unit  3.   In  response,  on
November  3,  1994, GSU filed pleadings in District Court  seeking  an
order requiring Cajun to provide GSU with the energy from Big Cajun 2,
Unit  3 to which GSU is entitled, and holding that GSU is entitled  to
credit  amounts due from GSU to Cajun for Big Cajun 2, Unit 3  against
amounts due from Cajun to GSU with respect to River Bend.  On December
19,  1994,  the District Court issued an injunction prohibiting  Cajun
from  denying  its  share  of energy from Big  Cajun  2,  Unit  3  and
stipulating  that GSU must make payments for its portion  of  expenses
for Big Cajun 2, Unit 3 to the registry of the District Court.

      Cajun Bankruptcy Filing - On December 14, 1994, the LPSC ordered
Cajun  to  decrease  the  rates charged  to  its  member  distribution
cooperatives by approximately $30 million per year.  The rate decrease
is  associated with the LPSC's prior finding of imprudence in  Cajun's
participation in River Bend.

      On  December  21, 1994, Cajun filed a petition  in   the  United
States  Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Louisiana  seeking
bankruptcy  relief  under Chapter 11 of the United  States  Bankruptcy
Code. Cajun's bankruptcy could have a material adverse effect on  GSU,
including  the  possibility  of an NRC  action  with  respect  to  the
operation of River Bend.  However, GSU is taking appropriate steps  to
protect its interests and its claims against Cajun arising from the co-
ownership  in  River Bend and Big Cajun 2, Unit 3.   On  December  31,
1994, the District Court issued an order lifting an automatic stay  as
to   certain   proceedings,  with  the  result  that  the  preliminary
injunction  granted  by the Court on December  19,  1994,  remains  in
effect.   Cajun filed a Notice of Appeal on January 18, 1995,  to  the
United  States  Court  of  Appeals for the  Fifth  Circuit  seeking  a
reversal  of the District Court's grant of the preliminary injunction.
No hearing date has been set on Cajun's appeal.

     In the bankruptcy proceedings, Cajun filed on January 10, 1995, a
motion  to  reject  the Operating Agreement as a burdensome  executory
contract.   GSU  responded  on January 10,  1995,  with  a  memorandum
opposing   Cajun's  motion  filed  with  the  District  Court.    This
memorandum  argues that the motion should be denied  because  (1)  the
Operating Agreement is not an executory contract that can be  rejected
under the United States Bankruptcy Code, but an agreement establishing
property  rights  and obligations; (2) Cajun legally cannot  have  its
payment  obligations  under  the Operating Agreement  suspended  while
retaining  the  benefits  from co-ownership  in  River  Bend,  as  the
benefits  and  obligations are indivisible; (3) Cajun cannot  seek  to
dispose of its property interest in River Bend or reject the Operating
Agreement  with  respect  thereto without  disposing  of  all  of  its
property  interests  and rejecting all of the arrangements  under  the
River   Bend  package  of  agreements  consisting  of  the   Operating
Agreement,  Big  Cajun 2, Unit 3 facility, certain transmission  lines
and   the   buy-back  agreement  pursuant  to  when  GSU  paid   Cajun
approximately  $600 million for River Bend capacity and energy  during
the  early  years  of  operation  of  River  Bend;  and  (4)  a  legal
determination  of  Cajun's obligations and  interests  in  River  Bend
should  only be made as part of a plan of reorganization in bankruptcy
and  such  determination should be subject to regulatory approvals  by
certain agencies with jurisdiction over Cajun, including the NRC.   If
the  court  were  to  grant  Cajun's motion to  reject  the  Operating
Agreement, Cajun would be relieved of its financial obligations  under
the  contract, while GSU would likely have a substantial damage  claim
arising  from any such rejection.  Although GSU believes that  Cajun's
motion to reject the Operating Agreement is non-meritorious, it is not
possible   to  predict  the  outcome  or  ultimate  impact  of   these
proceedings.

     During the period in which Cajun is not paying its share of River
Bend  costs,  GSU intends to fund all costs necessary  for  the  safe,
continuing  operation  of the unit.  The responsibilities  of  Entergy
Operations  as  the  licensed  operator  of  River  Bend,  for  safely
operating  and  maintaining  the unit  are  not  affected  by  Cajun's
actions.

     The total resulting from Cajun's failure to fund repair projects,
Cajun's  funding  limitation  on refueling  outages,  and  the  weekly
funding limitation by Cajun was $55.6 million as of December 31, 1994,
compared  with  $33.3 million as of December 31, 1993.  These  amounts
are  reflected in long-term receivables with an offsetting reserve  in
other  deferred credits.  Cajun's bankruptcy may affect  the  ultimate
collectibility of the amounts owed to GSU, including any amounts  that
may be awarded in litigation.

      In  September  1994,  in connection with  Entergy  Corporation's
analysis  of certain preacquisition contingencies, Entergy Corporation
increased its acquisition adjustment and GSU recorded a loss provision
associated  with the River Bend litigation between GSU and  Cajun  and
certain underpayments by Cajun of River Bend costs, in accordance with
SFAS   5,  "Accounting for Contingencies."  See  Note  12  of  Entergy
Corporation's  Notes to Financial Statements, "Entergy  Corporation  -
GSU   Merger"   for   additional   information   on   provisions   for
preacquisition contingencies recorded during 1994.

      Cajun/Transmission Service - GSU and Cajun are parties  to  FERC
proceedings  relating  to transmission service  charge  disputes.   In
April  1992,  FERC issued a final order.  In May 1992, GSU  and  Cajun
filed motions for rehearings which are pending at FERC.  In June 1992,
GSU  filed a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals
regarding certain of the issues decided by FERC.  In August 1993,  the
United States Court of Appeals rendered an opinion reversing the  FERC
order  regarding  the  portion  of  such  disputes  relating  to   the
calculations of certain credits and equalization charges  under  GSU's
service schedules with Cajun.  The opinion remanded the issues to FERC
for  further  proceedings consistent with its  opinion.   In  December
1994,  FERC held a hearing to address the issues remanded by the Court
of  Appeals.   In February 1995, FERC clarified its order, eliminating
an  issue  that  GSU believes the Court of Appeals  directed  FERC  to
reconsider.

     GSU interprets the 1992 FERC order and the United States Court of
Appeals' decision to mean that Cajun would owe GSU approximately $93.3
million as of December 31, 1994.  However, FERC's February 1995, order
indicates  that FERC believes an issue, estimated by GSU to constitute
approximately $26.2 million of this amount, may not be pursued by  GSU
in  the remand proceedings.  GSU further estimates that if it prevails
in   its   May  1992  motion  for  rehearing,  Cajun  would  owe   GSU
approximately $129.6 million as of December 31, 1994.  If  Cajun  were
to  prevail in its May 1992 motion for rehearing to FERC, and  if  GSU
were not to prevail in its May 1992 motion for rehearing to FERC,  and
if  FERC  does  not implement the court's remand as  GSU  contends  is
required, GSU estimates it would owe Cajun approximately $85.6 million
as  of  December 31, 1994.  The above amounts are exclusive of a  $7.3
million  payment  by  Cajun on December 31, 1990,  which  the  parties
agreed to apply to the disputed transmission service charges.  GSU and
Cajun  further  agreed  that  their positions  at  FERC  would  remain
unaffected by the $7.3 million payment.  Pending FERC's ruling on  the
May  1992  motions  for  rehearing, GSU has continued  to  bill  Cajun
utilizing  the historical billing methodology and has booked underpaid
transmission  charges, including interest, in  the  amount  of  $160.2
million  as of December 31, 1994.  This amount is reflected  in  long-
term receivables with an offsetting reserve in other deferred credits.

      On  December  7,  1993, Cajun filed a complaint  in  the  Middle
District  of  Louisiana alleging that GSU failed to provide  Cajun  an
opportunity to construct certain facilities that allegedly would  have
reduced  its rates under Service Schedule CTOC, and seeking  an  order
compelling   the  conveyance  of  certain  facilities   and   awarding
unspecified  damages.  GSU has moved to dismiss the complaint  on  the
basis, among others, that FERC has already addressed the matter in the
proceedings described above.

      Cajun/Service Dispute - GSU was requested by Cajun and Jefferson
Davis   Electric  Cooperative,  Inc.,  (Jefferson  Davis)  to  provide
transmission of power over GSU's system for delivery to the Industrial
Road area near Lake Charles, Louisiana.  GSU provides electric service
to  industrial  and  other  customers in  such  area,  and  Cajun  and
Jefferson  Davis do not.  On October 10, 1989, Cajun filed a complaint
at  FERC  contending  that  GSU wrongfully refused  to  provide  Cajun
certain  transmission  services so that its member,  Jefferson  Davis,
could  provide  service  to  certain  industrial  customers,  and   it
requested  FERC to order GSU to provide the service.  On  October  26,
1989, FERC summarily dismissed Cajun's complaint, but the D.C. Circuit
reversed  FERC's summary determination and remanded the case  to  FERC
for  a  hearing.  On June 24, 1992, after a hearing, an ALJ issued  an
Initial  Decision, again dismissing Cajun's complaint.  The ALJ  found
that  the parties' contract did not require GSU to provide the service
and  that  Cajun's member, Jefferson Davis, had not sought  permission
from  the  LPSC  to  serve  the end-use  customers  in  question.   If
Jefferson  Davis  secured permission from the LPSC, the  ALJ  believed
(but  did  not  decide) that FERC would require  GSU  to  provide  the
requested  transmission service.  On March 21, 1994,  FERC  issued  an
order affirming the ALJ and dismissing Cajun's complaint, finding that
GSU  properly exercised its contractual right to refuse to provide the
service.   On  August 3, 1994, FERC denied rehearing.  On  August  12,
1994, Cajun filed a petition for review of FERC's orders in the United
States  Court  of Appeals for the District of Columbia  Circuit.   The
matter is pending.

      Cajun  and  Jefferson Davis also brought  a  related  action  in
federal  court in the Western District of Louisiana alleging that  GSU
breached its obligations under the parties' contract and violated  the
antitrust  laws  by  refusing  to  provide  the  transmission  service
described  above.   Cajun  and  Jefferson  Davis  seek  an  injunction
requiring GSU to provide the requested service and unspecified  treble
damages  for  GSU's refusal to provide the service.   On  November  9,
1989,  the  district court judge denied Cajun's and  Jefferson  Davis'
motion for a preliminary injunction.  On May 3, 1991, the judge stayed
the  proceeding pending final resolution of the matters still  pending
before FERC.

      Cajun/River  Bend Repairs - On December 2, 1991, Cajun  filed  a
complaint  seeking declaratory and injunctive relief from  the  U.  S.
District  Court for the Middle District of Louisiana.   The  complaint
concerns  GSU's  position  that Cajun is in default  with  respect  to
paying its share of certain expenditures to repair corrosion damage in
the  service water system, to repair a feedwater nozzle crack, and  to
repair  a  turbine rotor.  Cajun alleges that it has no obligation  to
pay  its share of such costs and seeks a declaration that it may elect
not to participate in the funding of such costs and enjoining GSU from
demanding   payment  therefor  or  attempting  to  implement   default
provisions  in  the Operating Agreement with respect  thereto.   Cajun
alleges that if it is required to pay its share of such costs it would
be  forced  to  default on other obligations.  See  "Cajun  Bankruptcy
Filing,"  above  for information regarding Cajun's bankruptcy  filing.
GSU  believes  that  Cajun is in default under the provisions  of  the
Operating  Agreement.  No assurance can be given as to the outcome  or
timing of this action brought by Cajun.

      Cajun/Other  -  In  May 1990, GSU received a subpoena  from  the
Office of Inspector General - Investigations, United States Department
of  Agriculture,  seeking  production of  documents  relating  to  the
construction  costs  of  River Bend.  Such  office  is  authorized  to
investigate  matters  relating  to  programs  of  the  Department   of
Agriculture.   GSU  has  been  sued  by  Cajun  with  respect  to  its
participation  in  River  Bend  with  funds  made  available   through
Department  programs administered by the RUS.  GSU has failed  in  its
efforts  to  have  the RUS made a party to the Cajun litigation.   GSU
does  not know the purpose of such Office's investigation, but assumes
that it relates to the Cajun civil litigation since the production  of
documents sought by such Office is similar to that sought by Cajun  in
its  action against GSU.  However, there can be no assurance given  by
GSU  as  to  the  real purpose of such Office's investigation.   Among
other   areas   of  responsibility,  such  Office  is  authorized   to
investigate  possible  violations of law.  GSU believes  the  subpoena
proceeding  has been administratively dismissed without  prejudice  to
the parties.

     LP&L.  For information regarding litigation in connection with an
abandoned  waste  oil  recycling  plant  site  in  Livingston  Parish,
Louisiana,  in  which LP&L and GSU are defendants, see  "GSU,"  above.
LP&L  does  not  believe  that  it was a  generator  of  any  material
delivered  to  this facility and is defending vigorously  against  the
claims in these suits.

     Since the mid-1980's, LP&L and the tax authorities of St. Charles
Parish,  Louisiana  (Parish),  the parish  in  which  Waterford  3  is
located,  have  disputed use taxes paid on nuclear fuel ($4.9  million
through  1989) under protest by LP&L.  LP&L continues to be successful
in  lawsuits in the Parish with regard to recovering these taxes, plus
interest,  and also with regard to Parish lease tax issues  pertaining
to  fuel  financing  arrangements.  On the  grounds  of  the  previous
favorable  court decisions, LP&L continues to challenge in the  courts
additional use tax assessments that it has paid to the Parish  and  to
seek  additional interest that LP&L claims it is due.  On October  13,
1994, Parish tax authorities sued LP&L and Entergy Corporation in  the
Civil District Court of Orleans Parish, Louisiana, claiming that  $1.4
million  of sales and use and lease taxes paid under protest  by  LP&L
with  respect to newly acquired nuclear fuel were not, in  fact,  paid
under  protest  and  should be disposed of by  the  Parish,  and  that
unspecified additional taxes, interest, and penalties are due. Entergy
Corporation  was  dismissed  from the  suit  and  the  suit  has  been
transferred back to the Parish where it will form part of the suit  by
LP&L to recover the $1.4 million of sales and use taxes it paid to the
Parish under protest.  Also, in early procedural stages are (1)  suits
by  LP&L  with  regard to the state use tax on nuclear fuel,  and  (2)
LP&L's  defense  (and indemnification, if necessary) of  nuclear  fuel
lessors under LP&L's fuel financing arrangements in the suits filed by
the Parish use tax authorities claiming approximately $64.0 million in
lease and use taxes.  These matters are pending.

      Entergy  Corporation, LP&L, and System Energy.  In August  1994,
Entergy  received an IRS report covering the federal income tax  audit
of  Entergy  Corporation and subsidiaries for the years 1988  -  1990.
The  report  asserts  an  $80  million tax  deficiency  for  the  1990
consolidated  federal  income tax returns  related  primarily  to  the
application  of  accelerated investment tax  credits  associated  with
Waterford  3  and  Grand  Gulf  nuclear plants.   Entergy  Corporation
believes  there  is  no  material tax  deficiency  and  is  vigorously
contesting the proposed assessment.




    EARNINGS RATIOS OF SYSTEM OPERATING COMPANIES AND SYSTEM ENERGY


      The System operating companies and System Energy have calculated
ratios  of earnings to fixed charges and ratios of earnings  to  fixed
charges and preferred dividends pursuant to Item 503 of Regulation S-K
of the SEC as follows:

                                        Years Ended December 31,
                                1990     1991      1992    1993      1994
     Ratios of Earnings to                                           
     Fixed Charges(a)                                                
       AP&L                     2.16     2.25      2.28   3.11(f)    2.32
       GSU                       .80(g)  1.56      1.72   1.54        .36(g)
       LP&L                     2.32     2.40      2.79   3.06       2.91
       MP&L                     2.42     2.36      2.37   3.79(f)    2.12
       NOPSI                    2.73     5.66(e)   2.66   4.68(f)    1.91
       System Energy            2.10     1.74      2.04   1.87       1.23



____________________

(a)  "Earnings"  as  defined  by  SEC  Regulation  S-K  represent  the
     aggregate  of  (1)  net income, (2) taxes based  on  income,  (3)
     investment  tax  credit adjustments-net, and (4)  fixed  charges.
     "Fixed   Charges"   include   interest   (whether   expensed   or
     capitalized),  related amortization, and interest  applicable  to
     rentals charged to operating expenses.

(b)  "Preferred  Dividends"  as  defined by  SEC  Regulation  S-K  are
     computed  by dividing the preferred dividend requirement  by  one
     hundred percent (100%) minus the income tax rate.

(c)  System Energy's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation do
     not currently provide for the issuance of preferred stock.

(d)  "Preferred  Dividends" in the case of GSU also include  dividends
     on preference stock.

(e)  Earnings  for the year ended December 31, 1991, include  the  $90
     million effect of the 1991 NOPSI Settlement.


(f)  Earnings   for   the  year  ended  December  31,  1993,   include
     approximately $81 million, $52 million, and $18 million for AP&L,
     MP&L,   and  NOPSI,  respectively,  related  to  the  change   in
     accounting  principle  to provide for the  accrual  of  estimated
     unbilled revenues.

(g)  Earnings for the year ended December 31, 1994 and 1990,  for  GSU
     were  not  adequate to cover fixed charges by $144.8 million  and
     $60.6   million,  respectively.   Earnings  for  the  year  ended
     December  31,  1994 and 1990, were not adequate  to  cover  fixed
     charges  and  preferred dividends by $197.1  million  and  $165.1
     million, respectively.



                           INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

NOPSI

Narrative Description of NOPSI Industry Segments

      Electric  Service.  NOPSI supplied electric service  to  189,836
customers  as  of  December 31, 1994.  During 1994,  36%  of  electric
operating  revenues  was  derived from  residential  sales,  41%  from
commercial  sales,  6%  from  industrial  sales,  15%  from  sales  to
governmental  and  municipal customers, and 2% from  sales  to  public
utilities and other sources.

      Natural  Gas  Service.  NOPSI supplied natural  gas  service  to
153,259  customers as of December 31, 1994.  During 1994, 57%  of  gas
operating  revenues  was  derived from  residential  sales,  18%  from
commercial  sales, 10% from industrial sales, and 15%  from  sales  to
governmental and municipal customers. (See "Fuel Supply - Natural  Gas
Purchased for Resale.")

Selected Financial Information Relating to Industry Segments

      For  selected financial information relating to NOPSI's industry
segments,  see  NOPSI's financial statements and Note  11  of  NOPSI's
Notes to Financial Statements, "Business Segment Information."

Employees by Segment

       NOPSI's   full-time  employees  by  industry  segment   as   of
December 31, 1994, were as follows:

           Electric                       527
           Natural Gas                    133
                                          ---
                Total                     660
                                          ===

      (For  further information with respect to NOPSI's segments,  see
"Property.")

GSU

      For  the  year  ended December 31, 1994, 96% of GSU's  operating
revenues  was  derived  from  the  electric  utility  business.    The
remainder of operating revenues was derived 2% from the steam business
and 2% from the natural gas business.  Segment information for GSU  is
not provided.


                               PROPERTY


Generating Stations

      The total capability of the System's owned and leased generating
stations  as  of December 31, 1994, by company and by  fuel  type,  is
indicated below:
                                   
                                   Owned and Leased Capability MW(1)
                                                              Gas     
                                                            Turbine   
                                                              and     
                                                            Internal  
     Company           Total      Fossil          Nuclear  Combustion  Hydro
                                                                       
     AP&L               4,367 (2)   2,373         1,694       230 (8)    70
     GSU                6,547 (2)   5,817           655 (5)    75         -
     LP&L               5,405 (2)   4,311         1,075 (6)    19         -
     MP&L               3,046 (2)   3,035 (4)         -        11         -
     NOPSI                927 (2)     912             -        15         -
     System Energy      1,028           -         1,028 (7)     -         -
                       ------      ------         -----       ---        --
       Total  System   21,320 (3)  16,448 (3)(4)  4,452       350        70
                       ======      ======         =====       ===        ==

_______________________

(1)  "Owned  and  Leased Capability" is the dependable  load  carrying
     capability,  as  demonstrated under actual  operating  conditions
     based  on  the primary fuel (assuming no curtailments) that  each
     station was designed to utilize.

(2)  Excludes the capacity of fossil-fueled generating stations placed
     on extended reserve as follows: AP&L - 506 MW; GSU - 405 MW; LP&L
     -  157 MW; MP&L - 73 MW; and NOPSI - 143 MW.  Generating stations
     that  are  not expected to be utilized in the near-term  to  meet
     load  requirements  are placed in extended  reserve  shutdown  in
     order to minimize operating expenses.

(3)  Excludes net capability of generating facilities owned by Entergy
     Power,  which  owns 809 MW of fossil-fueled capacity  (see  "Rate
     Matters and Regulation - Rate Matters - Wholesale Rate Matters  -
     Entergy Power," above).

(4)  Includes Independence 2, a coal unit operated by AP&L and jointly
     owned 25% by MP&L (210 MW), 31.5% by Entergy Power (265 MW),  and
     the  balance  by  various municipalities and a cooperative.   The
     unit  was  out  of service from August 11, 1993 to  February  18,
     1994, due to an explosion.

(5)  GSU's  nuclear capability represents its 70% undivided  ownership
     interest  in  River Bend; Cajun owns the remaining 30%  undivided
     interest.

(6)  LP&L's   nuclear   capability  represents  its  90.7%   undivided
     ownership interest and 9.3% leasehold interest in Waterford 3.

(7)  System  Energy's capability represents its 90% interest in  Grand
     Gulf  1  (78.5% ownership interest and 11.5% leasehold interest).
     South  Mississippi Electric Power Association has  the  remaining
     10% undivided ownership interest in Grand Gulf 1.  Entitlement to
     System Energy's capacity has been allocated to AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
     and NOPSI pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.

(8)  Includes 188 MW of capacity leased by AP&L through 1999.


      Representatives of the System regularly review load and capacity
projections in order to coordinate and recommend the location and time
of   installation   of   additional   generating   capacity   and   of
interconnections in light of the availability of power,  the  location
of  new  loads, and maximum economy to the System.  Based on load  and
capability projections and bulk power availability, the System has  no
current need to install additional generating capacity.  To delay  the
need for new capacity, the System is purchasing power in the wholesale
power  market  and  engaging  in conservation  and  DSM  programs,  as
discussed  in  "Business  of  Entergy  -  Competition  -  Least   Cost
Planning,"  above.   When  new generation resources  are  needed,  the
System  plans to meet this need with a variety of sources  other  than
construction  of new base load generating capacity.  In the  meantime,
the System will meet capacity needs by, among other things, purchasing
power  in  the  wholesale  power  market  and/or  removing  generating
stations from extended reserve shutdown.

      Under  the  terms  of the System Agreement,  certain  generating
capacity  and  other  power  resources are  shared  among  the  System
operating   companies.   Among  other  things,  the  System  Agreement
provides  that parties having generating capacity greater  than  their
load  requirements  shall sell such capacity to those  parties  having
deficiencies in generating capacity and that the purchasers shall  pay
to  the  sellers a charge sufficient to cover certain of the  sellers'
costs,  including operating expenses, fixed charges on debt,  dividend
requirements  on preferred and preference stock, and a  fair  rate  of
return on common equity investment.  Under the System Agreement, these
charges are based on costs associated with the sellers' steam electric
generating  units fueled by oil or gas.  In addition, for  all  energy
exchanged  among  the  System  operating companies  under  the  System
Agreement,  the  purchasers are required  to  pay  the  cost  of  fuel
consumed  in  generating  such energy plus a  charge  to  cover  other
associated  costs (see "Rate Matters and Regulation - Rate  Matters  -
Wholesale Rate Matters - System Agreement," above, for a discussion of
FERC proceedings relating to the System Agreement).

      The  System's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, with
the peak period occurring in the summer months. The System's 1994 peak
demand  of  18,028  MW  occurred on June 28,  1994.   The  net  System
capability  at  the  time  of peak was 20,884  MW,  which  reflects  a
reduction  of  the  System's  total 21,196  MW  of  owned  and  leased
capability  by  net  off-system firm sales of 312  MW.   The  capacity
margin  at the time of the peak was approximately 13.7%, not including
units placed on extended reserve and capacity owned by Entergy Power.

Interconnections

       The   electric  power  supply  facilities  of  Entergy  consist
principally  of  steam-electric  production  facilities  strategically
located  with reference to availability of fuel, protection  of  local
loads,   and   other   controlling   economic   factors.   These   are
interconnected by a transmission system operating at various  voltages
up  to 500 KV.  Generally, with the exception of Grand Gulf 1, Entergy
Power's  capacity  and a small portion of MP&L's  capacity,  operating
facilities  or  interests therein are owned by  the  System  operating
company  serving  the  area  in  which  the  facilities  are  located.
However,  all  of  the  System's generating facilities  are  centrally
dispatched.   The  System seeks, among other things, the  lowest  cost
sources  of  energy from hour to hour.  The minimum of investment  and
the  most  efficient use of plant are sought to be achieved, in  part,
through  the  coordinated scheduling of maintenance,  inspection,  and
overhaul.

      Neighboring  utilities with which one or more  System  operating
companies  are  directly  interconnected  include,  Mississippi  Power
Company,   Southwestern  Electric  Power  Company,   Southwest   Power
Administration, Central Louisiana Electric Company, Inc., Oklahoma Gas
and  Electric  Company,  The Empire District Electric  Company,  Union
Electric Company, Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation, Tennessee
Valley  Authority, Cajun, Sam Rayburn Dam Electric Cooperative,  Inc.,
SRG&T,  SRMPA, Associated Electric Cooperative, Inc., Municipal Energy
Agency  of Mississippi, Louisiana Energy and Power Authority,  Farmers
Electric Cooperative, South Mississippi Electric Power Authority,  and
the  cities  of Lafayette, Plaquemine, and New Roads, Louisiana.   GSU
also  has an interconnection agreement with Houston Lighting and Power
Company providing a minor amount of emergency service only. The System
operating  companies  also have interchange  agreements  with  Alabama
Electric Cooperative, Big Rivers Electric Cooperative, Northeast Texas
Electric  Cooperative,  Inc., Sam Rayburn  G&T  Electric  Cooperative,
Inc.,  Florida  Power  Corporation, Florida  Power  &  Light  Company,
Jacksonville  Electric  Authority, Oglethorpe Power  Cooperative,  the
City  of Lafayette, Louisiana, the City of Springfield, Missouri,  and
East Kentucky Electric Cooperative.

     The System operating companies are members of the Southwest Power
Pool,  the  primary purpose of which is to ensure the reliability  and
adequacy of the electric bulk power supply in the southwest region  of
the  United States.  The Southwest Power Pool is a member of the North
American  Electric Reliability Council.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI
are also members of the Western Systems Power Pool.

Gas Property

      As  of  December  31,  1994, NOPSI distributed  and  transported
natural  gas for distribution solely within the limits of the City  of
New  Orleans through a total of 1,419 miles of gas distribution  mains
and 40 miles of gas transmission lines.  NOPSI receives deliveries  of
natural  gas  for  distribution purposes  at  14  separate  locations,
including  deliveries  from  Koch Gateway Pipeline  Company  (formerly
United  Gas  Pipe  Line Company) at six of these  locations.   Of  the
remaining  delivery points, two are principally served  by  interstate
suppliers and the remainder are served by intrastate suppliers.

      As  of  December 31, 1994, the gas properties of  GSU  were  not
material to GSU.

Titles

       The System's generating stations are generally located on lands
owned  in  fee  simple.  The greater portion of the  transmission  and
distribution  lines  of  the  System  operating  companies  has   been
constructed over lands of private owners pursuant to easements  or  on
public  highways  and  streets pursuant to appropriate  permits.   The
rights  of  each  company in the realty on which  its  properties  are
located are considered by it to be adequate for its use in the conduct
of  its business.  Minor defects and irregularities customarily  found
in  properties of like size and character exist, but such defects  and
irregularities  do  not materially impair the use  of  the  properties
affected  thereby.  The System operating companies generally have  the
right  of  eminent domain whereby they may, if necessary,  perfect  or
secure titles to, or easements or servitudes on, privately-held  lands
used or to be used in their utility operations.

      Substantially all the physical properties owned by  each  System
operating company and System Energy, respectively, are subject to  the
lien of a mortgage and deed of trust securing the first mortgage bonds
of  such  company.   The Lewis Creek generating station  is  owned  by
GSG&T,  Inc.,  and  is  not subject to the lien of  the  GSU  mortgage
securing  the first mortgage bonds of GSU, but is leased and  operated
by  GSU.  In the case of LP&L, certain properties are also subject  to
the liens of second mortgages securing other obligations of LP&L.   In
the  case of MP&L and NOPSI, substantially all of their properties and
assets  are  also  subject  to  the  second  mortgage  lien  of  their
respective general and refunding mortgage bond indentures.



                              FUEL SUPPLY


      The  following tabulation shows the percentages of natural  gas,
fuel oil, nuclear fuel, and coal used in generation, excluding that of
Entergy  Power,  during the past three years and  it  also  shows  the
average  fuel cost per KWH generated by each type of fuel during  that
period.  The balance of generation, which was immaterial, was provided
by hydroelectric power.

ENTERGY

            Natural Gas      Fuel Oil     Nuclear Fuel      Coal
             %    Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents
            of     per     of     per     of     Per     of     Per
Year        Gen    KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH
1994        44     2.24     1     3.99    39     .60     16     1.82
                                                               
                                                               
ENTERGY EXCLUDING GSU

            Natural Gas     Fuel Oil     Nuclear Fuel      Coal
             %    Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents
            of     per     of     per     of     Per     of     Per
Year        Gen    KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH
1993        27     2.70     7     2.10    51     .58     15     1.91
1992        32     1.99     -       -     49     .67     18     1.90

GSU

            Natural Gas     Fuel Oil     Nuclear Fuel      Coal
             %    Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents    %     Cents
            of     Per     of     Per     of     Per     of     Per
Year        Gen    KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH    Gen     KWH
1993        69     2.44     -       -     14     1.19    17     1.77
1992        76     2.01     -       -      8     1.64    16     1.68

      The following tabulation shows the percentages of generation  by
fuel  type  used in generation, excluding that of Entergy  Power,  for
1994  (actual) and 1995 (projected).  The balance of generation, which
is immaterial, is provided by hydroelectric power.


            Natural Gas     Fuel Oil     Nuclear Fuel      Coal
           1994    1995   1994    1995   1994    1995   1994    1995
System     44%     47%     1%      0%    39%     35%     16%     18%
AP&L        7       2      -       -     59      51      33     46
GSU        71      73      -       -     13      15      16     12
LP&L       57      62      -       -     43      38       -      -
MP&L       60      67     13       -      -       -      27     33
NOPSI     100     100      -       -      -       -       -      -
System      -      -       -       -    100(a)  100(a)    -      -
Energy                                  
                                                               
_______________________


(a)  Capacity and energy from System Energy's interest in Grand Gulf 1
     is  allocated as follows: AP&L - 36%; LP&L - 14%; MP&L - 33%; and
     NOPSI - 17%.

Natural Gas

      The  System operating companies retain a mix of  long-term  firm
and  short-term  interruptible gas contracts.  Long-term  firm  supply
contracts   currently  comprise  less  than  40%   of   total   System
requirements  but  can  be  called upon, if necessary,  to  satisfy  a
significant   percentage  of  the  System's  needs.   Additional   gas
requirements  are  satisfied by short-term contracts  and  spot-market
purchases.   Furthermore,  in  November  1992,  GSU  entered  into   a
transportation  service agreement with a gas supplier  that  obligates
such  supplier  to provide GSU with flexible natural  gas  service  to
certain generating stations by using such supplier's pipeline and  gas
storage facility.

      Many factors influence the availability and price of natural gas
supplies  for power plants including wellhead deliverability,  storage
and  pipeline capacity, and the demand requirements of the end  users.
This  demand is closely tied to the severity of the weather conditions
in  the region.  Furthermore, pricing relative to other energy sources
(i.e.,  fuel oil, coal, purchased power, etc.) will affect the  demand
for  natural  gas  for  power plants.  Supplies  of  natural  gas  are
expected  to  be adequate in 1995.  However, pursuant to  federal  and
state  regulations,  gas supplies to power plants may  be  interrupted
during periods of shortage.  To the extent natural gas supplies may be
disrupted,  the  System operating companies will use alternate  fuels,
such as oil, or rely on coal and nuclear generation.

Coal

      AP&L  has long-term contracts for the supply of low-sulfur  coal
for  the  White  Bluff  Steam  Electric  Generating  Station  and  the
Independence  Steam  Electric Station (which is owned  25%  by  MP&L).
Coal  for the White Bluff Station is supplied under a contract from  a
mine  in  the  State of Wyoming.  The coal contract provides  for  the
delivery of sufficient coal to operate the White Bluff Station through
approximately  2002.   Coal  for  the  Independence  Station  is  also
supplied  under a contract from a mine in the State of Wyoming.   Coal
supplied  under this contract is expected to meet the requirements  of
the  Independence Station through at least 2014.  GSU has  a  contract
for  a  supply  of low-sulfur Wyoming coal for Nelson  Unit  6,  which
should be sufficient to satisfy the fuel requirements at Nelson Unit 6
through 2004.  Cajun has advised GSU that it has contracts that should
provide an adequate supply of coal until 1997 for the operation of Big
Cajun  2, Unit 3 (which is operated by Cajun and of which GSU  owns  a
42% undivided interest).

Nuclear Fuel

      Generally,  the  supply  of fuel for  nuclear  generating  units
involves  the  mining  and  milling  of  uranium  ore  to  produce   a
concentrate,  the  conversion  of  uranium  concentrate   to   uranium
hexafluoride gas, enrichment of that gas, fabrication of nuclear  fuel
assemblies  for use in fueling nuclear reactors, and disposal  of  the
spent fuel.

      System  Fuels  is responsible for contracts to  acquire  nuclear
material  to  be  used in fueling AP&L's, LP&L's, and System  Energy's
nuclear units and for maintaining inventories of such materials during
the  various stages of processing.  Each of these companies  currently
contracts  for  the  fabrication of  its  own  nuclear  fuel  and  for
purchasing  the  required  enriched uranium hexafluoride  from  System
Fuels.  The  requirements for GSU's River Bend plant  are  covered  by
contracts made by GSU.  System Fuels sometimes acts as agent  for  GSU
in negotiating and/or administering such contracts.

      On October 3, 1989, System Fuels entered into a revolving credit
agreement  with  banks permitting it to borrow up to  $45  million  to
finance its nuclear materials and services inventory.  AP&L, LP&L, and
System  Energy  agreed  to  purchase from  System  Fuels  the  nuclear
materials  and services financed under the agreement if  System  Fuels
should default in its obligations thereunder.  Such purchases would be
allocated based on percentages agreed upon among the parties.  In  the
absence of such agreement, AP&L, LP&L, and System Energy would each be
obligated to purchase one-third of the nuclear materials and services.

      Based  upon  the  planned fuel cycles for the  System's  nuclear
units, the following tabulation shows the years through which existing
contracts and inventory will provide materials and services:

                               Acquisition
                                  of or                            
                               Conversion                        Spent
                    Uranium    to Uranium    Enrich-   Fabri-     Fuel
                  Concentrate  Hexafluoride   ment     cation   Disposal
      
      ANO 1           (1)          (1)         (3)      1997       (4)
      ANO 2           (1)          (1)         (3)      1999       (4)
      River Bend      (2)          (2)         (3)      2000       (4)
      Waterford 3     (1)          (1)         (3)      1999       (4)
      Grand  Gulf 1   (1)          (1)         (3)      2000       (4)
                                                                  
__________________________

(1)  Current contracts will provide a significant percentage of  these
     materials  and  services through termination dates  ranging  from
     1995-1998.   Additional  materials and services  required  beyond
     these  dates  are  estimated to be available for the  foreseeable
     future.

(2)  Current  GSU  contracts will provide a significant percentage  of
     these materials and services for River Bend through 1996.

(3)  Current contracts will provide a significant percentage of  these
     materials  and services through approximately 2000.   (See  "Rate
     Matters  and Regulation - Regulation - Regulation of the  Nuclear
     Power  Industry  -  Decommissioning," above  for  information  on
     annual   contributions   to   a   federal   decontamination   and
     decommissioning fund required by the EPAct to be  made  by  AP&L,
     GSU,  LP&L,  and  System Energy as a result of  their  enrichment
     contracts with the DOE.)

(4)  The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provides for the disposal of
     spent  nuclear fuel or high level waste by the DOE.   (See  "Rate
     Matters  and Regulation - Regulation - Regulation of the  Nuclear
     Power  Industry  -  Spent  Fuel and Other High-Level  Radioactive
     Waste," above for further information).

      The  System will enter into additional arrangements  to  acquire
nuclear  fuel  beyond the dates shown above.  Except as  noted  above,
Entergy  cannot  predict the ultimate availability  or  cost  of  such
arrangements at this time.

      AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L, and System Energy have nuclear  fuel  leasing
arrangements  that provide for AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System  Energy  to
lease  nuclear  fuel  and  related equipment and  services  having  an
aggregate value of up to $125 million, $105 million, $95 million,  and
$105 million for each company, respectively.  As of December 31, 1994,
the  unrecovered  cost  base  of AP&L's,  GSU's,  LP&L's,  and  System
Energy's  nuclear fuel leases amounted to approximately $94.6 million,
$80.0  million, $44.2 million, and $46.7 million, respectively.   Each
lessor finances its acquisition and ownership of nuclear fuel under  a
credit  agreement and through the issuance of intermediate-term notes.
The  credit  agreements, which were entered into by AP&L in  1988,  by
LP&L  and System Energy in 1989, and by GSU in 1993, had initial terms
of five years, with the exception of GSU, which has an initial term of
three years.  These agreements are subject to annual renewal with,  in
LP&L's  and  GSU's  case,  the consent of  the  lenders.   The  credit
agreements  for AP&L, LP&L, and System Energy have been  extended  and
now  have  termination  dates  of December  1997,  January  1998,  and
February 1998, respectively.  The credit agreement for GSU was entered
into  in  December 1993 and has a termination date of  December  1997.
The  intermediate-term  notes  issued pursuant  to  these  fuel  lease
arrangements have varying maturities through January 31, 1999.  It  is
expected  that the credit agreements will be extended, or  alternative
financing  will  be  secured by each lessor, based on  the  particular
lessee's  nuclear  fuel  requirements.  If extensions  or  alternative
financing  cannot be arranged, the lessee in each case  must  purchase
sufficient nuclear fuel to allow the lessor to retire such borrowings.

Natural Gas Purchased for Resale

      NOPSI  has  several suppliers of natural gas  for  resale.   Its
system  is  interconnected with three interstate and three  intrastate
pipelines.   Presently, NOPSI's primary suppliers of natural  gas  for
resale  are  Koch  Gas  Services, Company  (KGS),  an  interstate  gas
marketer,  and  Bridgeline  and Pontchartrain,  intrastate  pipelines.
NOPSI  has a firm gas purchase contract with KGS.  The KGS gas  supply
is  transported  to  NOPSI  pursuant to a  "No-Notice"  transportation
service  agreement  with Koch Gateway Pipeline Company  (KGPC).   This
service  is subject to FERC-approved rates.  NOPSI has firm  contracts
with  its  two intrastate suppliers and also makes interruptible  spot
market  purchases  when  economically attractive.   In  recent  years,
natural  gas deliveries have been subject primarily to weather-related
curtailments.  However, NOPSI has experienced  no such curtailments.

      After  the  implementation of FERC-mandated interstate  pipeline
restructuring,  which  occurred on October 31, 1993,  curtailments  of
interstate  gas  supply  could occur if NOPSI's  suppliers  failed  to
perform   their  obligations  to  deliver  gas  under   their   supply
agreements.   KGPC could curtail transportation capacity only  in  the
event of pipeline system constraints.  Based on the current supply  of
natural  gas,  and absent extreme weather related curtailments,  NOPSI
does not anticipate any interruptions in natural gas deliveries to its
customers.

      GSU  purchases  natural gas for resale from a single  interstate
supplier.   Abandonment of service by the present  supplier  would  be
subject to abandonment proceedings by FERC.

Research

      AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are members of  the  Electric
Power  Research  Institute (EPRI).  EPRI conducts  a  broad  range  of
research  in  major technical fields related to the  electric  utility
industry.   Entergy  participates in various EPRI projects,  based  on
Entergy's needs and available resources.  During 1992, 1993 and  1994,
the  System  contributed approximately $16 million,  $17  million  and
$18  million, respectively, for the various research programs in which
Entergy was involved.


Item 2.   Properties

     Refer to Item 1. "Business - Property," for information regarding
the properties of the registrants.


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

      Refer  to Item 1. "Business - Rate Matters and Regulation,"  for
details  of  the  registrants' material  rate  proceedings  and  other
regulatory  proceedings  and  litigation  that  are  pending  or  that
terminated in the fourth quarter of 1994.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      During  the  fourth quarter of 1994, no matters  that  would  be
described  in response to this item were submitted to a  vote  of  the
security holders of Entergy Corporation, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,
or System Energy.


                                PART II


Item   5.     Market  for  Registrants'  Common  Equity  and   Related
Stockholder Matters

      Entergy Corporation.  The shares of Entergy Corporation's common
stock  are  listed  on  the  New  York,  Chicago,  and  Pacific  Stock
Exchanges.

      The  high and low prices for each quarterly period in  1994  and
1993, were as follows:

                           1994                1993
                       High      Low       High      Low
                                   (In Dollars)
      First            37 3/8    31 1/8    36 1/2    32 1/2
      Second           32 1/8    24 5/8    38 1/4    33 1/4
      Third            26 1/4    22 5/8    39 7/8    36 1/4
      Fourth           24 3/4    21 1/4    39 1/4    35 1/8

      Eight consecutive quarterly cash dividends on common stock  were
paid  to  stockholders  of  Entergy  Corporation  in  1994  and  1993.
Dividends of 45 cents per share were paid in each of the four quarters
of  1994.  In 1993, dividends of 40 cents per share were paid in  each
of  the first three quarters and dividends of 45 cents per share  were
paid in the last quarter.

      As  of  February  28, 1995, there were 103,100  stockholders  of
record of Entergy Corporation.

      For  information  with respect to Entergy  Corporation's  future
ability  to pay dividends, refer to Note 7 of Entergy Corporation  and
Subsidiaries'  Notes  to Consolidated Financial Statements,  "Dividend
Restrictions."  In addition to the restrictions described in  Note  7,
the  Holding Company Act provides that, without approval of  the  SEC,
the  unrestricted,  undistributed retained  earnings  of  any  Entergy
Corporation subsidiary are not available for distribution  to  Entergy
Corporation's  common  stockholders  until  such  earnings  are   made
available  to Entergy Corporation through the declaration of dividends
by such subsidiaries.

      AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy.  There  is  no
market  for the common stock of System Energy and the System operating
companies,  all  of which is owned by Entergy Corporation.   Prior  to
December  31,  1993, GSU's common stock was publicly held.   Effective
with  the  Merger,  all shares of GSU common stock  were  acquired  by
Entergy  Corporation.  No cash dividends on common stock were paid  by
GSU  to its stockholders in 1993.  Cash dividends on common stock paid
by  AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,  NOPSI, and  System  Energy  to  Entergy
Corporation during 1994 and 1993, were as follows:

                                               1994       1993
                                                (In Millions)

     AP&L                                     $80.0     $156.3
     GSU                                      289.1          -
     LP&L                                     167.1      167.6
     MP&L                                      45.6       85.8
     NOPSI                                     33.3       43.9
     System Energy                            148.3      233.1



      For  information  with respect to restrictions  that  limit  the
ability  of  System Energy and the System operating companies  to  pay
dividends,  and  for  information with respect to  dividends  paid  to
Entergy  Corporation by its subsidiaries subsequent  to  December  31,
1994, refer respectively, to Note 6 of System Energy's and Note  7  of
AP&L's,   GSU's,  LP&L's,  MP&L's,  and  NOPSI's  Notes  to  Financial
Statements, "Dividend Restrictions."


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

      Entergy  Corporation.  Refer to information  under  the  heading
"Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Selected Financial Data -  Five-
Year Comparison."

      AP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "Arkansas Power  &
Light Company Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison."

      GSU.  Refer  to  information  under  the  heading  "Gulf  States
Utilities Company Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison."

      LP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "Louisiana Power &
Light Company Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison."

      MP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "Mississippi Power
& Light Company Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison."

      NOPSI.   Refer  to  information under the heading  "New  Orleans
Public Service Inc. Selected Financial Data -  Five-Year Comparison."

      System  Energy.  Refer to information under the heading  "System
Energy   Resources,   Inc.  Selected  Financial   Data   -   Five-Year
Comparison."


Item  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

      Entergy  Corporation.  Refer to information  under  the  heading
"ENTERGY   CORPORATION   AND   SUBSIDIARIES   MANAGEMENT'S   FINANCIAL
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      AP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "ARKANSAS POWER  &
LIGHT COMPANY MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      GSU.  Refer  to  information  under  the  heading  "GULF  STATES
UTILITIES COMPANY MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      LP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "LOUISIANA POWER &
LIGHT COMPANY MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      MP&L.  Refer to information under the heading "MISSISSIPPI POWER
& LIGHT COMPANY MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      NOPSI.   Refer  to  information under the heading  "NEW  ORLEANS
PUBLIC SERVICE INC. MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS."

      System  Energy.  Refer to information under the heading  "SYSTEM
ENERGY   RESOURCES,   INC.  MANAGEMENT'S  FINANCIAL   DISCUSSION   AND
ANALYSIS."



Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries:                                     
  Definitions                                                           61
  Report of Management                                                  64
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                     65
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                    66
  Independent Auditors' Report                                          67 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993               68
  Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows For the Years Ended               
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                   70
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                        72
  Statements of Consolidated Income For the Years Ended                   
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                   75
  Statements of Consolidated Retained Earnings and Paid-In                
     Capital for the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992       76
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)            77
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            86
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       120
AP&L:                                                                     
  Definitions                                                          122
  Report of Management                                                 124
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    125
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                   126
  Independent Auditors' Report                                         127    
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           128
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  130
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       131
  Statements of Income For the Years Ended                                
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  132
  Statements of Retained Earnings for the Years Ended                     
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  133
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           134
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        139
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       156
GSU:                                                                      
  Definitions                                                          158
  Report of Management                                                 160
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    161
  Report of Independent Accountants                                    163
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           164
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  166
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       167
  Statements of Income (Loss) For the Years Ended                         
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  168
  Statements of Retained Earnings and Paid-In Capital                     
     for the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992              169
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           170
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        176
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       203
LP&L:                                                                     
  Definitions                                                          206
  Report of Management                                                 208
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    209
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                   210
  Independent Auditors' Report                                         211
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           212
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  214
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       215
  Statements of Income For the Years Ended                                
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  216
  Statements of Retained Earnings for the Years                           
     Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                            217
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           218
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        222
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       239
MP&L:                                                                     
  Definitions                                                          242
  Report of Management                                                 244
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    245
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                   246
  Independent Auditors' Report                                         247
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           248
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  250
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       251
  Statements of Income For the Years Ended                                
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  252
  Statements of Retained Earnings for the Years Ended                     
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  253
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           254
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        259
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       274
NOPSI:                                                                    
  Definitions                                                          276
  Report of Management                                                 278
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    279
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                   280
  Independent Auditors' Report                                         281
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           282
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  284
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       285
  Statements of Income For the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993        
     and 1992                                                          286
  Statements of Retained Earnings for the Years Ended                     
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  287
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           288
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        293
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       308
System Energy:                                                            
  Definitions                                                          310
  Report of Management                                                 312
  Audit Committee Chairman's Letter                                    313
  Reports of Independent Accountants                                   314
  Independent Auditors' Report                                         315
  Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993                           316
  Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended                            
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  318
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis                       319
  Statements of Income For the Years Ended                               
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  320
  Statements of Retained Earnings for the Years Ended                    
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  321
  Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis (continued)           322
  Notes to Financial Statements                                        325
  Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison                       340



                      Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                        
                                        
                                        
                            1994 Financial Statements




                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                                                          
                                   DEFINITIONS


      Certain abbreviations or acronyms used in the Financial Statements,  Notes
to  Financial Statements, and Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis are
defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym               Term

AFUDC                       Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

ANO                         Arkansas   Nuclear  One  Steam  Electric  Generating
                            Station

ANO 2                       Unit No. 2 of ANO

AP&L                        Arkansas Power & Light Company

APSC                        Arkansas Public Service Commission

Cajun                       Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.

Council                     Council of the City of New Orleans, Louisiana

Entergy or System           Entergy  Corporation  and  its  various  direct  and
                            indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Enterprises         Entergy Enterprises, Inc.

Entergy Operations          Entergy  Operations, Inc., a subsidiary  of  Entergy
                            Corporation  that  has operating responsibility  for
                            Grand Gulf 1, Waterford 3, ANO, and River Bend

Entergy Services            Entergy Services, Inc.

Entergy Power               Entergy   Power,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of   Entergy
                            Corporation  that markets capacity  and  energy  for
                            resale  from certain generating facilities to  other
                            parties, principally non-affiliates

EPAct                       The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                        Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC                        Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

G&R Bonds                   General  and  Refunding Mortgage  Bonds  issued  and
                            issuable by MP&L and NOPSI

Grand Gulf 1                Unit   No.  1  of  the  Grand  Gulf  Steam  Electric
                            Generating Station (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2                Unit   No.  2  of  the  Grand  Gulf  Steam  Electric
                            Generating Station (nuclear)

GSU                         Gulf  States  Utilities  Company  (including  wholly
                            owned  subsidiaries  - Varibus  Corporation,  GSG&T,
                            Inc.,  Prudential  Oil and Gas, Inc.,  and  Southern
                            Gulf Railway Company)

KWH                         Kilowatt-Hour(s)

LP&L                        Louisiana Power & Light Company

LPSC                        Louisiana Public Service Commission

Merger                      The   combination   transaction,   consummated    on
                            December  31, 1993, by which GSU became a subsidiary
                            of   Entergy  Corporation  and  Entergy  Corporation
                            became a Delaware corporation

Money Pool                  Entergy  Money  Pool,  which allows  certain  System
                            companies to borrow from, or lend to, certain  other
                            System companies

MP&L                        Mississippi Power & Light Company

MPSC                        Mississippi Public Service Commission

1991 NOPSI Settlement       Agreement,  retroactive to October  4,  1991,  among
                            NOPSI,  the  Council,  the Alliance  for  Affordable
                            Energy, Inc., and others that settled certain  Grand
                            Gulf   1  prudence  issues  and  pending  litigation
                            related    to   the   resolution   (including    the
                            Determinations  and  Order  referred   to   therein)
                            adopted   by  the  Council  on  February  4,   1988,
                            disallowing  NOPSI's recovery  of  $135  million  of
                            previously deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs

NOPSI                       New Orleans Public Service Inc.

PUCT                        Public Utility Commission of Texas

Rate Cap                    The  level  of GSU's retail electric base  rates  in
                            effect  at  December  31, 1993,  for  the  Louisiana
                            retail  jurisdiction, and the level in effect  prior
                            to  the  Texas Cities Rate Settlement for the  Texas
                            retail  jurisdiction, that may not be  exceeded  for
                            the five years following December 31, 1993

River Bend                  River   Bend   Steam  Electric  Generating   Station
                            (nuclear), owned 70% by GSU

RUS                         Rural   Utility   Services   (formerly   the   Rural
                            Electrification Administration or "REA")

SEC                         Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                        Statement    of   Financial   Accounting   Standards
                            promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                    SFAS  106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
                            Benefits Other Than Pensions"

SFAS 109                    SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System Agreement            Agreement,   effective   January   1,    1983,    as
                            subsequently modified by the FERC, among the  System
                            operating  companies  relating  to  the  sharing  of
                            generating capacity and other power resources

System Energy               System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels                System Fuels, Inc.

System operating companies  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, collectively

System or Entergy           Entergy  Corporation  and  its  various  direct  and
                            indirect subsidiaries

Waterford 3                 Unit   No.   3  of  the  Waterford  Steam   Electric
                            Generating Station (nuclear)



                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                              REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


      The management of Entergy Corporation has prepared and is responsible  for
the financial statements and related financial information included herein.  The
financial  statements  are  based on generally accepted  accounting  principles.
Financial information included elsewhere in this report is consistent  with  the
financial statements.

      To  meet  its  responsibilities  with respect  to  financial  information,
management maintains and enforces a system of internal accounting controls  that
is  designed to provide reasonable assurance, on a cost-effective basis,  as  to
the integrity, objectivity, and reliability of the financial records, and as  to
the  protection  of assets.  This system includes communication through  written
policies  and  procedures, an employee Code of Conduct,  and  an  organizational
structure  that  provides  for appropriate division of  responsibility  and  the
training  of personnel.  This system is also tested by a comprehensive  internal
audit program.

      The independent public accountants provide an objective assessment of  the
degree  to  which management meets its responsibility for fairness of  financial
reporting.   They regularly evaluate the system of internal accounting  controls
and  perform such tests and other procedures as they deem necessary to reach and
express an opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management believes that these policies and procedures provide  reasonable
assurance  that its operations are carried out with a high standard of  business
conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                     /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                         GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    Senior Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer

                                        
                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                        AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                        
                                        
     The Entergy Corporation Board of Directors' Audit Committee is comprised of
four   directors,  who  are  not  officers  of  Entergy  Corporation:   H.  Duke
Shackelford (Chairman), Lucie J. Fjeldstad, Dr. Norman C. Francis, and James  R.
Nichols.  The committee held four meetings during 1994.

      The  Audit  Committee oversees Entergy Corporation's  financial  reporting
process  on  behalf of Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors.  In  fulfilling
its  responsibility,  the  committee  recommended  to  the  board,  subject   to
stockholder approval, the selection of Entergy Corporation's independent  public
accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.).

      The  Audit  Committee discussed with Entergy's internal auditors  and  the
independent  public accountants the overall scope and specific plans  for  their
respective  audits,  as  well  as Entergy Corporation's  consolidated  financial
statements  and  the adequacy of Entergy Corporation's internal  controls.   The
committee  met,  together and separately, with Entergy's internal  auditors  and
independent  public  accountants, without management  present,  to  discuss  the
results  of  their  audits, their evaluation of Entergy  Corporation's  internal
controls,  and the overall quality of Entergy Corporation's financial reporting.
The  meetings  also  were  designed  to facilitate  and  encourage  any  private
communication  between  the committee and the internal auditors  or  independent
public accountants.



                                   /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                   H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                   Chairman, Audit Committee


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                                        
                                        
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Entergy Corporation

      We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet  of  Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994, and the related statements
of consolidated income, retained earnings and paid-in capital and cash flows for
the  year then ended.  These financial statements are the responsibility of  the
Corporation's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on  these
financial  statements based on our audit.  The consolidated financial statements
of  Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993  and  for  the
years  ended  December 31, 1993 and 1992, were audited by other auditors,  whose
report,  dated  February  11,  1994, included explanatory  paragraphs  that  (i)
described  changes in 1993 in methods of accounting for revenues,  income  taxes
and   postretirement  benefits  other  than  pensions  (Notes  1,  3   and   10,
respectively);  (ii) uncertainties regarding costs capitalized  by  Gulf  States
Utilities  Company  for  its River Bend Unit I Nuclear Generating  Plant  (River
Bend)  and  other rate-related contingencies which may result  in  a  refund  of
revenues  previously  collected (Note 2); and, (iii)  an  uncertainty  regarding
civil actions against Gulf States Utilities Company (Note 8).

      We  conducted  our  audit  in accordance with generally accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles used and significant  estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our  opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to  above
present  fairly,  in  all material respects, the financial position  of  Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994, and  the result  of  their
operations  and  their  cash flows for the year then ended  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As  discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the  net
amount  of  capitalized costs for River Bend exceed those costs currently  being
recovered  through rates.  At December 31, 1994, approximately $685  million  is
not  currently being recovered through rates.  If current regulatory  and  court
orders  are not modified, a write-off of all or a portion of such costs  may  be
required.   Additionally, as discussed in Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial
statements, other rate-related contingencies exist which may result  in  refunds
of  revenues  previously collected.  The extent of such write-off of capitalized
River  Bend costs or refunds of revenues previously collected, if any, will  not
be  determined  until appropriate rate proceedings and court appeals  have  been
concluded.   Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements  do
not  include  any  adjustments or provision for write-off or refund  that  might
result from the outcome of these uncertainties.

      As  discussed  in  Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements,  civil
actions  have  been  initiated against Gulf States Utilities Company  to,  among
other  things, recover the co-owner's investment in River Bend and to annul  the
River  Bend Joint Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement.  The ultimate
outcome of these proceedings cannot presently be determined.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995, except for the last paragraph
of "Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities" in
Note 2, as to which the date is March 20, 1995
                                        


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                                        

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
     Entergy Corporation

      We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet  of  Entergy
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993, and the related statements
of  consolidated income, retained earnings and paid-in capital, and  cash  flows
for  each  of  the  two  years in the period ended  December  31,  1993.   These
financial  statements  are  the responsibility of the Corporation's  management.
Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on  our  audits.   We  did  not audit the financial statements  of  Gulf  States
Utilities  Company  (a consolidated subsidiary acquired on December  31,  1993),
which  statements  reflect total assets constituting 31% of  consolidated  total
assets  at  December 31, 1993.  Those statements were audited by other  auditors
whose  report (which included explanatory paragraphs regarding the uncertainties
discussed  in the fourth and fifth paragraphs below) has been furnished  to  us,
and  our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Gulf  States
Utilities Company, is based solely on the report of such other auditors.

      We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles used and significant  estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that  our  audits and the report of the other  auditors  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors,
such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the  financial position of Entergy Corporation and subsidiaries at December  31,
1993,  and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of  the
two  years  in  the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity with  generally
accepted accounting principles.

      The  Corporation  acquired a 70% interest in River  Bend  Unit  I  Nuclear
Generating  Plant (River Bend) through its acquisition of Gulf States  Utilities
Company  on  December  31, 1993.  As discussed in Note  2  to  the  consolidated
financial statements, the net amount of capitalized costs for River Bend  exceed
those  costs  currently being recovered through rates.  At  December  31,  1993,
approximately $747 million is not currently being recovered through  rates.   If
current  regulatory and court orders are not modified, a write-off of all  or  a
portion of such costs may be required.  Additionally, as discussed in Note 2  to
the  consolidated  financial statements, other rate-related contingencies  exist
which  may  result in a refund of revenues previously collected.  The extent  of
such  write-off of capitalized River Bend costs or refund of revenues previously
collected, if any, will not be determined until appropriate rate proceedings and
court   appeals  have  been  concluded.   Accordingly,  the  accompanying   1993
consolidated  financial  statements do not include any  adjustments  that  might
result from the outcome of these uncertainties.

      As  discussed  in  Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements,  civil
actions  have  been  initiated against Gulf States Utilities Company  to,  among
other  things, recover the co-owner's investment in River Bend and to annul  the
related  joint  ownership participation and operating agreement.   The  ultimate
outcome  of  these proceedings, including their impact on Gulf States  Utilities
Company,  cannot  presently be determined.  Accordingly, the  accompanying  1993
consolidated  financial  statements do not include any  adjustments  that  might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, certain of
the  Corporation's subsidiaries changed their method of accounting for  revenues
in  1993  and,  as  discussed  in Notes 3 and 10 to the  consolidated  financial
statements, in 1993 the Corporation changed its methods of accounting for income
taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions, respectively.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994

                                        
                                                     


                                        
      

                                      
                    
                                        
                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                 MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                        
                         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


      Liquidity is important to Entergy due to the capital intensive  nature  of
its  business,  which  requires large investments in long-lived  assets.   While
large  capital expenditures for the construction of new generating capacity  are
not currently planned, the System does require significant capital resources for
the  periodic maturity of certain series of debt and preferred stock and ongoing
construction  expenditures.   Net  cash  flow  from  operations  totaled  $1,538
million, $1,074 million, and $831 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
In  recent  years,  this  cash flow, supplemented by  cash  on  hand,  has  been
sufficient  to  meet  substantially all investing  and  financing  requirements,
including  capital expenditures, dividends, and debt/preferred stock maturities.
Entergy's  ability to fund these capital requirements with cash from  operations
results,  in  part, from continued efforts to streamline operations  and  reduce
costs  as  well  as collections under Grand Gulf 1 and River Bend rate  phase-in
plans,  which  exceed  the current cash requirements for  Grand  Gulf  1-related
costs.   (In the income statement, these revenue collections are offset  by  the
amortization of previously deferred costs; therefore, there is no effect on  net
income.)   These  phase-in plans will continue to contribute to  Entergy's  cash
position   for   the   next  several  years.   Further,  Entergy   Corporation's
subsidiaries have the ability to meet future capital requirements through future
debt  or  preferred  stock  issuances, as  discussed  below.   See  Note  8  for
additional  information on the System's capital and refinancing requirements  in
1995  -  1997.   Also, to the extent current market interest and dividend  rates
allow,  the  System  operating  companies and  System  Energy  may  continue  to
refinance high-cost debt and preferred stock prior to maturity.

      Productive investment by Entergy Corporation of excess funds is  necessary
to  enhance  the  long-term  value  of  its  common  stock.   In  1994,  Entergy
Corporation invested in the Hub River Company which is constructing a generating
station  near  Karachi, Pakistan.  In 1993, Entergy Corporation invested  in  an
electric  distribution  company  and  a  high-voltage  transmission  system   in
Argentina.   In 1992, Entergy Corporation invested in a generating  facility  in
Argentina,  an  independent  power  plant in  Virginia,  a  lighting  efficiency
services  company,  and  a  company that develops energy  management  and  other
technology applications.  Entergy Corporation may invest up to $150 million  per
year  for  the  next several years in nonregulated business opportunities.   See
"Significant Factors and Known Trends - Nonregulated Investments" for additional
information.

      Certain agreements and restrictions limit the amount of mortgage bonds and
preferred stock that can be issued by the System operating companies and  System
Energy.  Based on the most restrictive applicable tests as of December 31, 1994,
and  an  assumed annual interest or dividend rate of 9.25%, the System operating
companies  could have issued bonds or preferred stock in the following  amounts,
respectively:  AP&L - $253 million and $468 million; GSU -  $0  million  and  $0
million;   LP&L  -  $107  million and $784 million;  MP&L  -  $246  million  and
$95  million; and NOPSI - $89 million and $17 million.  System Energy could also
have  issued  $241 million of bonds, but its charter does not presently  provide
for  the  issuance  of  preferred  stock.  In  addition,  the  System  operating
companies and System Energy have the conditional ability to issue bonds  against
the  retirement  of  bonds, in some cases without meeting an  earnings  coverage
test.   Although GSU was precluded from issuing first mortgage bonds  under  its
earnings  coverage test as of December 31, 1994, GSU has the  ability  to  issue
$578  million  of first mortgage bonds against the retirement of first  mortgage
bonds  without meeting such test.  AP&L may also issue preferred stock to refund
outstanding preferred stock without meeting an earnings coverage test.  GSU  has
no  limitations on the issuance of preference stock.  See Note 4 for information
on the System's short-term borrowings.

       Entergy  Corporation's  current  primary  capital  requirements  are   to
periodically invest in, or make loans to, its subsidiaries.  Entergy Corporation
expects  to  meet  these requirements in 1995 - 1997 with  internally  generated
funds  and  cash on hand.  Further, Entergy Corporation paid $410.2  million  of
dividends  on  its  common stock in 1994.  Declarations of dividends  on  common
stock  are  made at the discretion of Entergy Corporation's Board  of  Directors
(Board).   It is anticipated that management will not recommend future  dividend
increases to the Board unless such increases are justified by sustained earnings
growth  of  Entergy  Corporation  and  its  subsidiaries.   Entergy  Corporation
receives  funds through dividend payments from its subsidiaries.   During  1994,
these   common   stock  dividend  payments  totaled  $763.4   million.   Certain
restrictions  may  limit  the amount of these distributions.   See  Note  7  for
additional information.

     See Notes 2 and 8 for information regarding litigation with Cajun and River
Bend  rate  appeals.  Substantial write-offs or charges resulting  from  adverse
rulings in these matters could result in substantial additional net losses being
reported  by  Entergy  and  GSU in 1995 and subsequent periods,  with  resulting
substantial  adverse adjustments to common shareholder's equity.  Also,  adverse
resolution of these matters could adversely affect GSU's ability to continue  to
pay dividends and obtain financing, which could in turn affect GSU's liquidity.

      Entergy  Corporation has a program to repurchase shares of its outstanding
common  stock.   The  timing and amount of such repurchases depend  upon  market
conditions and Board authorization. Entergy Corporation has requested,  but  not
yet  received,   SEC authorization for a $300 million bank line of  credit,  the
proceeds  of  which  are  expected  to be used  for  common  stock  repurchases,
investments  in  nonregulated  and nonutility  businesses,  and  other  optional
activities.   Certain  parties  have intervened  in  this  proceeding,  and  the
application is pending.  See Notes 4 and 5 for additional information.

      Increasing competition in the utility industry brings an increased need to
stabilize  costs  and reduce retail rates.  See "Significant Factors  and  Known
Trends  -  Competition" for additional information on rate issues affecting  the
System.

     On March 20, 1995, the PUCT ordered GSU to implement a $72.9 million annual
base  rate reduction for the period March 31, 1994, through September  1,  1994,
decreasing to an annual base rate reduction of $52.9 million after September  1,
1994.   In  accordance with the Merger agreement, the rate reduction is  applied
retroactively  to  March  31, 1994.  As a result, GSU  recorded  a  $57  million
reserve for rate refund in 1994.  See Note 2 for additional information.

     In March 1994, the MPSC issued a final order adopting a formulary incentive
rate  plan.   The  order also adopted previously agreed-upon stipulations  of  a
required  return  on  equity  of  11% and certain  accounting  adjustments  that
resulted  in a 4.3% ($28.1 million) reduction in MP&L's June 30, 1993, test-year
base  revenues  effective March 25, 1994.  The plan allows  for  periodic  small
adjustments in rates based on an annual comparison of earned to benchmark  rates
of return and upon certain other performance factors.  See Note 2 for additional
information.

      As  discussed in Note 2, NOPSI agreed to reduce electric and gas rates and
issue  credits  and refunds to customers pursuant to the 1994 NOPSI  Settlement.
Under  the terms of the settlement,  NOPSI implemented rate reductions  totaling
$44.9  million  effective January 1, 1995.   NOPSI will implement an  additional
$4.4  million rate reduction on October 31, 1995.  In addition, the  1994  NOPSI
Settlement  requires NOPSI to credit its customers $25 million over  a  21-month
period, beginning January 1, 1995, in order to resolve disputes with the Council
regarding  the  interpretation of the 1991 NOPSI  Settlement.   The  1994  NOPSI
Settlement  also  required  NOPSI  to refund  $9.3  million  of  overcollections
associated  with  Grand  Gulf 1 operating costs and  $10.5  million  of  refunds
associated with the settlement by System Energy of a FERC tax audit.  See Note 2
for additional information on the 1994 NOPSI Settlement.

      As  discussed  in  Note  2, in November 1994, FERC approved  an  agreement
settling  a long-standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures  of
System  Energy.   In  connection with this settlement,  System  Energy  refunded
approximately $61.7 million to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, which in  turn  have
made  or  will  make  refunds or credits to their customers  (except  for  those
portions  attributable  to AP&L's and LP&L's retained  share  of  Grand  Gulf  1
costs).   Additionally, System Energy will refund a total of  approximately  $62
million,  plus interest, to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI over the period  through
June  2004.   AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and NOPSI  also  wrote  off  certain  related
unamortized balances of deferred investment tax credits.  See Note 2 for further
information on the FERC Settlement.

      Entergy  Corporation  has  agreed to supply to  System  Energy  sufficient
capital to (1) maintain System Energy's equity capital at an amount equal  to  a
minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt), and  (2)
permit  the continuation of commercial operation of Grand Gulf 1 and to  pay  in
full  all  indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due  under  any
circumstances.   In addition, under supplements to the Capital  Funds  Agreement
assigning System Energy's rights as security for specific debt of System Energy,
Entergy  Corporation  has  agreed to make cash capital contributions  to  enable
System Energy to make payments on such debt when due.  See Note 8 for additional
information.
                                        

  
                                                          
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                          
                                        
                                        
                                        
                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                 MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                        
                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


      On December 31, 1993, GSU became a subsidiary of Entergy Corporation.   In
accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the results of operations for
the  12  months ended December 31, 1993, of Entergy Corporation and subsidiaries
reported in its Statements of Consolidated Income and Cash Flows do not  include
GSU's  results  of  operations.  However, the following discussion  between  the
years  1994 and 1993 is presented with GSU's 1993 results of operations included
for  comparative  purposes.  The discussion between  the  years  1993  and  1992
reflects reported results which do not include GSU.

      In  the  second  half  of  1994,  Entergy recorded  certain  charges  that
significantly affected results of operations as discussed below.  These  charges
included,  among other things, the FERC Settlement refund, NOPSI rate reductions
and credits, Merger-related costs, and restructuring costs (see Notes 2, 11, and
12).

Net Income

      Consolidated net income decreased $253.4 million in 1994 due primarily  to
the  one-time  recording  in 1993 of the cumulative  effect  of  the  change  in
accounting principle for unbilled revenues for AP&L, GSU, MP&L, and NOPSI and  a
base  rate reduction ordered by the PUCT applied retroactively to March 31, 1994
(see  Note  2).  In addition, net income was impacted by a decrease in revenues,
increased  Merger-related  costs,  certain restructuring  costs,  and  decreased
miscellaneous income - net, partially offset by a decrease in interest on  long-
term debt and preferred dividend requirements.

      Consolidated  net income increased in 1993 due primarily to  the  one-time
recording  of  the cumulative effect of the change in accounting  principle  for
unbilled revenues for AP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  This increase was partially offset
by  the  effects of implementing SFAS 109 and SFAS 106, and the impact in  March
1992 of an after-tax gain from the sale of AP&L's Missouri properties.

      Significant  factors  affecting  the results  of  operations  and  causing
variances  between  the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and 1992,   are  discussed
under "Revenues and Sales," "Expenses," and "Other" below.

Revenues and Sales

      See "Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison," following the notes,
for information on operating revenues by source and KWH sales.

      Electric  operating  revenues decreased in  1994  due  primarily  to  rate
reductions/credits  at  GSU, MP&L, and NOPSI, the  effects  of  the  1994  NOPSI
Settlement  and  the  FERC Settlement, and decreased fuel  adjustment  revenues,
partially  offset by increased retail energy sales and increased collections  of
previously deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs.

      Electric operating revenues were higher in 1993 due primarily to increased
residential  and  commercial  energy  sales  resulting  from  favorable  weather
conditions, increased industrial sales due to improving market conditions in the
petrochemical,  lumber,  and plywood industries, and increased  fuel  adjustment
revenues  and  collections of previously deferred Grand  Gulf  1-related  costs,
neither of which affects net income, partially offset by the impact of a  System
Energy rate reduction settlement.

Expenses

      Purchased  power  decreased  in  1994 due  primarily  to  decreased  power
purchases from nonassociated utilities due to changes in generation requirements
for  the System operating companies.  Purchased power increased in 1993  due  to
increased power purchases from non-associated utilities, resulting from  changes
in fuel-related costs and increased energy sales.

      Nuclear refueling outage expenses decreased in 1994 due primarily to Grand
Gulf  1  outage  expenses incurred in 1993.  Nuclear refueling  outage  expenses
decreased  in  1993 due primarily to a decrease in the number of  scheduled  and
unscheduled refueling outages.

      Total  income taxes decreased in 1994 due primarily to lower pre-tax  book
income and  the effects of the FERC Settlement.  Total income taxes increased in
1993  due  primarily to higher pretax income, an increase in the federal  income
tax  rate as a result of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, and  the
implementation  of SFAS 109, partially offset by the impact of  the  March  1992
sale of AP&L's Missouri properties.

     The amortization of rate deferrals increased in 1994 and 1993 due primarily
to collection of more Grand Gulf 1-related costs from customers.

     Interest expense  decreased  in  1994  due primarily to the  refinancing of
high-cost debt partially offset by  interest recorded  on  the  FERC Settlement.
Interest expense decreased in 1993 due primarily to the refinancing of high-cost
debt and debt reduction activities.

     Preferred dividend requirements decreased in 1994 and 1993 due primarily to
stock redemption activities.

Other

      Miscellaneous income - net decreased in 1994 due primarily to amortization
of plant acquisition adjustment related to the Merger, the adoption of SFAS 116,
"Accounting for Contributions Made and Contributions Received" and reduced Grand
Gulf  1 carrying charges at AP&L.  Miscellaneous income - net decreased in  1993
due  primarily to the 1992 pretax gain of approximately $33.7 million  from  the
sale of AP&L's Missouri properties.


                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                 MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                        
                      SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

     The electric utility industry, including Entergy, is experiencing increased
competitive pressures.  Entergy is seeking to become a leading competitor in the
changing  electric  energy  business.  Competition presents  Entergy  with  many
challenges.   The  following  have  been identified  by  Entergy  as  its  major
competitive challenges.

                        Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
      Increasing competition in the utility industry brings an increased need to
stabilize or reduce retail rates.  The retail regulatory philosophy is  shifting
in  some jurisdictions from traditional cost-of-service regulation to incentive-
rate   regulation.   Incentive  and  performance-based  rate   plans   encourage
efficiencies and productivity while permitting utilities and their customers  to
share in the results.  MP&L implemented an incentive-rate plan in 1994 and  LP&L
filed  a performance-based formula rate plan with the LPSC in August 1994.   GSU
agreed  to  shared-savings plans as part of the Merger.  Recognizing  that  many
industrial  customers have energy alternatives, Entergy continues to  work  with
these  customers  to address their needs.  In certain cases, competitive  prices
are negotiated, using variable-rate designs.

      In  a  settlement with the Council that was approved on December 29, 1994,
NOPSI  agreed to reduce electric and gas rates and issue credits and refunds  to
customers.   Effective  January  1,  1995, NOPSI  implemented  a  $31.8  million
permanent  reduction  in  electric  base rates  and  a  $3.1  million  permanent
reduction in gas base rates.  These adjustments resolved issues associated  with
NOPSI's return on equity exceeding 13.76% for the test year ended September  30,
1994.   Under  the  1991 NOPSI Settlement, NOPSI is recovering from  its  retail
customers its allocable share of certain costs related to Grand Gulf 1.  NOPSI's
base  rates  to recover those costs were derived from estimates of  those  costs
made  at  that  time.  Any overrecovery of costs is required to be  returned  to
customers.   Grand Gulf 1 has experienced lower operating costs than  previously
estimated, and NOPSI accordingly is reducing its base rates in two steps to more
accurately  match  the current costs related to Grand Gulf 1.   On   January  1,
1995, NOPSI implemented a $10 million permanent reduction in base electric rates
to  reflect  the  reduced costs related to Grand Gulf 1, to be  followed  by  an
additional $4.4 million rate reduction on October 31, 1995.  These Grand Gulf  1
rate  reductions,  which are expected to be largely offset  by  lower  operating
costs, may reduce NOPSI's after-tax net income by approximately $1.4 million per
year  beginning November 1, 1995.  The next scheduled Grand Gulf 1 phase-in rate
increase in the amount of $4.4 million on October 31, 1995, will not be affected
by the 1994 NOPSI Settlement.
     
      The 1994 NOPSI Settlement also requires NOPSI to credit its customers  $25
million  over a 21-month period, beginning January 1, 1995, in order to  resolve
disputes  with  the  Council  regarding the interpretation  of  the  1991  NOPSI
Settlement.   NOPSI recorded a $15.4 million net-of-tax reserve associated  with
the  credit  in  the fourth quarter of 1994.  The 1994 NOPSI Settlement  further
required  NOPSI to refund, in December 1994, $13.3 million of credits previously
scheduled  to  be made to customers during the period January 1995 through  July
1995.   These  credits were associated with a July 7, 1994,  Council  resolution
that  ordered  a  $24.95  million rate reduction based on  NOPSI's  overearnings
during the test year  ended September 30, 1993.  Accordingly, NOPSI recorded  an
$8 million net-of-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 1994.

      MP&L's formulary incentive rate plan allows for periodic small adjustments
in  rates based on a comparison of earned to benchmark returns and upon  certain
performance  factors.  In addition, certain previously agreed-upon  stipulations
of  a  required  return  on  equity  of 11% and certain  accounting  adjustments
resulted  in  a  4.3%  ($28.1  million) reduction in MP&L's  revenues  effective
March 25, 1994.  See Note 2 for further information.

      LP&L's five-year rate freeze expired in March 1994.  In August 1994,  LP&L
filed a performance-based formula rate plan with the LPSC.  The proposed formula
rate  plan would continue existing LP&L rates at current levels, while providing
financial  incentive  to  reduce  costs and maintain  high  levels  of  customer
satisfaction  and system reliability.  Hearings were held in March  1995.    See
Note 2 for additional information.

      In  connection with the Merger, AP&L and MP&L agreed with their respective
retail  regulators not to request any general retail rate increases  that  would
take  effect  before November 1998, with certain exceptions.  MP&L  also  agreed
that during this period retail base rates under its formula rate plan would  not
be  increased  above  the  level of rates in effect on  November  1,  1993.   In
connection  with the Merger, NOPSI agreed with the Council to reduce its  annual
electric  base rates by $4.8 million effective for bills rendered  on  or  after
November 1, 1993.  GSU agreed with the LPSC and PUCT to a five-year Rate Cap  on
retail  electric rates, and to pass through to retail customers the fuel savings
and  a  certain percentage of the nonfuel savings created by the Merger.   Under
the terms of their respective Merger agreements, the LPSC and PUCT have reviewed
GSU's  base  rates  during the first post-Merger earnings  analysis.   The  LPSC
ordered  a  $12.7 million annual rate reduction effective January 1, 1995.   GSU
received  an injunction delaying implementation of $8.3 million of the reduction
and on January 1, 1995, reduced rates by $4.4 million.  The entire $12.7 million
is  being appealed.  On March 20, 1995, the PUCT ordered a $72.9 million  annual
base  rate reduction for the period March 31, 1994, through September  1,  1994,
decreasing to an annual base rate reduction of $52.9 million after September  1,
1994.   In  accordance with the Merger agreement, the rate reduction is  applied
retroactively  to March 31, 1994.  The rate reduction is being appealed  and  no
assurance  can be given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.  See  Note  2
for further information.

     Retail wheeling, the transmission by an electric utility of energy produced
by  another entity over the utility's transmission and distribution system to  a
retail  customer  in the electric utility's area of service, is  also  evolving.
Over a dozen states have been or are studying the concept of retail competition.
In  April  1994,  the  state of Michigan initiated a five-year  experiment  that
allows  limited competition among public utilities.  During the same month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed  to  deregulate  that  state's
electric  power  industry, starting on January 1, 1996,  to  allow  the  largest
industrial customers to select the lowest cost supplier for electricity service.
Under  the  proposal,  by  the  year  2002, smaller  companies  and  residential
customers in California would also be able to buy power from any suppliers.  The
California  Public Utilities Commission is currently reviewing its proposal  and
is  expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail  market  for
electricity  is  expected  to become more competitive  with  such  moves  toward
deregulation.

     In some areas of the country, municipalities (or comparable entities) whose
residents  are  served  at retail by an investor-owned  utility  pursuant  to  a
franchise  are  exploring  the  possibility of  establishing  new  or  extending
existing  distribution systems or seeking new delivery points in order to  serve
retail  customers, especially large industrial customers, that currently receive
service from an investor-owned utility.  These options depend on the terms of  a
utility's franchise as well as on state law and regulation.  In addition, FERC's
authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or expanding municipal system
is limited in certain respects.  Where successful, however, the establishment of
a  municipal  system  or the acquisition by a municipal system  of  a  utility's
customers  could result in the inability to recover costs that the  utility  has
incurred in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  FERC  issued a notice of proposed rulemaking  concerning  a
regulatory framework for dealing with recovery of stranded costs, such as  high-
cost nuclear generating units, which may be incurred by electric utilities as  a
result of increased competition.  In addition to addressing recovery of stranded
costs  related  to  wholesale  service, the proposal  requested  comment  as  to
recovery  of retail stranded costs in transmission rates where state  regulatory
authorities failed to address the issue or were in conflict.  Comments and reply
comments  have been filed, and the matter is pending.  The risk of  exposure  to
stranded costs which may result from competition in the industry will depend  on
the  extent  and  timing of retail competition, the resolution of jurisdictional
issues concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such costs are
recovered from departing or remaining customers, among other matters.

       Cogeneration  projects  developed  or  considered  by  certain  of  GSU's
industrial customers over the last several years have resulted in GSU developing
and  securing approval of rates lower than the rates previously approved by  the
PUCT  and LPSC for such industrial customers.  Such rates are designed to retain
such  customers, and to compete for and develop new loads, and do not  presently
recover GSU's full cost of service.  The pricing agreements at non-full cost  of
service  based rates fully recover all related costs but provide only a  minimal
return.  Substantially all of such pricing agreements expire no later than 1997.
In  1994,  KWH sales to GSU's industrial customers at non-full cost  of  service
rates,  which  make  up  approximately 28%  of  GSU's  total  industrial  class,
increased 13%.  Sales to the remaining GSU industrial customers increased 2%.

      See  Note  2  for information with respect to a settlement between  System
Energy  and FERC in which System Energy refunded approximately $61.7 million  to
AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI, which in turn have made or will make  refunds  or
credits to their customers (except for those portions attributable to AP&L's and
LP&L's retained share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).  Additionally, System Energy  will
refund a total of approximately $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,
and  NOPSI over the period through June 2004.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  also
wrote  off  certain  related  unamortized balances of  deferred  investment  tax
credits.

       In  the  wholesale  rate  area,  FERC  approved  in  1992,  with  certain
modifications,  the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and  Entergy  Power  to
sell  wholesale power at market-based rates and to provide to electric utilities
"open   access"  to  the  System's  transmission  system  (subject  to   certain
requirements).   GSU was later added to this filing.  On October  31,  1994,  as
amended   on  January  25,  1995,  Entergy  Services  filed  with  FERC  revised
transmission tariffs intended to provide access to transmission service  on  the
same  or  comparable  basis,  terms,  and conditions  as  the  System  operating
companies, and the matter is pending.  Open access and market pricing,  once  it
takes  effect,  will increase marketing opportunities for the System,  but  will
also  expose the System to the risk of loss of load or reduced revenues  due  to
competition with alternative suppliers.

      In March 1994, North Little Rock, Arkansas, awarded AP&L a wholesale power
contract  that  will provide estimated revenues of $347 million over  11  years.
Under  the contract, the price per KWH was reduced 18%, with increases in  price
through the year 2004.  AP&L, which has been serving North Little Rock for  over
40   years,  was  awarded  the  contract  after  intense  bidding  with  several
competitors.   On  May 22, 1994, FERC accepted  the contract.   Rehearings  were
requested  by  one  of AP&L's competitors and were held in February  1995.   The
matter is pending.

      In  light  of  the  rate issues discussed above, Entergy  is  aggressively
reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions that might result as well as
to  successfully  compete  by becoming a low-cost producer.   In  1994,  Entergy
announced  a  restructuring program related to certain of its  operating  units.
This  program  is designed to reduce costs and  improve operating  efficiencies.
See  Note  12  for  further information.  Also, in response to  an  increasingly
competitive  environment, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI have announced  intentions
to  revise their initial least-cost planning activities and GSU is continuing to
work with the PUCT regarding integrated resource planning.

                          The Energy Policy Act of 1992
                                        
      The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering the  way
Entergy  and  the  rest  of the electric utility industry  operate.   The  EPAct
encourages  competition and affords utilities the opportunities and  the  risks,
associated  with  an  open and more competitive market environment.   The  EPAct
creates exemptions from regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company  Act
of 1935 (Holding Company Act) and creates a class of exempt wholesale generators
consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities that are owners and  operators
of  facilities  for  the  generation and transmission  of  power  for  sales  at
wholesale.   The  EPAct  also gives FERC the authority to  order  investor-owned
utilities,  including  the System operating companies,  to  transmit  power  and
energy  to  or  for  wholesale purchasers and sellers.    The  law  creates  the
potential  for  electric utilities and other power producers to  gain  increased
access  to  the  transmission systems of other entities to facilitate  wholesale
sales.   Both the System operating companies and Entergy Power expect to compete
in  this  market.   In addition, the EPAct allows utilities to own  and  operate
foreign   generation,   transmission,   and   distribution   facilities.     See
"Nonregulated Investments" below for further information.

                   Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935

       Entergy  Corporation,  along  with  10  other  electric  utility  holding
companies,  recently  asked Congress to repeal the  Holding  Company  Act.   The
Holding Company Act requires oversight by the SEC of many business practices and
activities of utility holding companies and their subsidiaries including,  among
other  things,  nonutility activities.  Entergy Corporation  believes  that  the
Holding  Company  Act inhibits its ability to compete in the  evolving  electric
energy  marketplace,  and  largely duplicates the oversight  activities  already
performed by FERC and state and local public service commissions.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      See  Note  2 for information on the possible material adverse  effects  on
GSU's  financial condition and results of operations as a result of  substantial
write-offs  and/or  refunds in connection with outstanding appeals  and  remands
regarding  approximately $1.4 billion of abeyed company-wide  River  Bend  plant
costs  and approximately $187 million ($170 million net of tax) of Texas  retail
jurisdiction deferred River Bend operating and carrying costs.

      See  Note  8  for information on the bankruptcy proceedings of  Cajun  and
litigation  with Cajun concerning Cajun's ownership interest in River  Bend  and
the related possible material adverse effects on GSU's financial condition.

Entergy Corporation-GSU Merger

      The  acquisition  of GSU by Entergy Corporation was the  largest  electric
utility merger in United States history. Entergy expects to achieve $850 million
in  fuel  cost  savings  and $670 million in operation and  maintenance  expense
savings  over 10 years as a result of the Merger.  In 1994, GSU recorded charges
associated  with certain preacquisition contingencies, severance  and  augmented
retirement  costs,  and restructuring costs.  See Notes 12 and  11  for  further
information.  Although common shareholders experienced some dilution in earnings
as  a result of the Merger, Entergy believes that the Merger will ultimately  be
beneficial  to  common shareholders in terms of strategic benefits  as  well  as
economies and efficiencies produced.  For further information, see Note 2.

Nonregulated Investments

      Entergy  Corporation  continues to consider opportunities  to  expand  its
utility and utility-related businesses that are not regulated by state and local
regulatory   authorities  (nonregulated  businesses).    Entergy   Corporation's
investment  strategy  is to invest in nonregulated business  opportunities  that
have  the potential to earn a greater rate of return than its regulated  utility
operations, and  Entergy Corporation may invest up to approximately $150 million
per  year  for  the  next  several  years in nonregulated  businesses.   Entergy
Corporation's nonregulated businesses currently fall into two broad  categories:
power  development and new technology related to the utility business.   Entergy
Corporation  made  investments  in Argentina's and  Pakistan's  electric  energy
infrastructures  and  is also pursuing additional projects in  Central  America,
South  America, Europe, and Asia.  Entergy Corporation opened an office in  Hong
Kong  during  1994 and expects to open offices in South America  and  Europe  in
1995.   Entergy Corporation is negotiating in China to participate in two  power
generation  projects, Datong and Taishan, which are expected  to  receive  final
approval  in 1995 or 1996.  To date, Entergy Corporation has made no  investment
in  the  China projects; however, Entergy Corporation's share of these  projects
may  total  approximately  $115 million.  In addition,  Entergy  Corporation  is
exploring  the  possibility to provide telecommunications  services  that  allow
customers to control energy usage.

       In   1994,   Entergy   Corporation's  nonregulated  investments   reduced
consolidated net income by approximately $31.7 million.  In the near term, these
investments  are unlikely to have a positive effect on earnings; but  management
believes that these investments will contribute to future earnings growth.

ANO Matters

      ANO  2  experienced a forced outage for repair of certain steam  generator
tubes  in  March  1992.   Further  inspections and  repairs  were  conducted  at
subsequent  refueling and mid-cycle outages in September 1992, May 1993,   April
1994,  and January 1995.  AP&L's budgeted maintenance expenditures were adequate
to cover the cost of such repairs.  ANO 2's output has been reduced 15 megawatts
or  1.6%  due to secondary side fouling, tube plugging, and reduction of primary
temperature.  Entergy Operations continues to take steps at ANO 2 to reduce  the
number  and  severity  of future tube cracks.  In addition,  Entergy  Operations
continues  to meet with the NRC to discuss such steps and results of inspections
of the generator tubes, as well as the timing of future inspections.  Additional
inspections  are planned for the normal refueling outage scheduled  for  October
1995.

Deregulated Portion of River Bend

      As of December 31, 1994, GSU had not recovered a significant amount of its
investment in, or received any return associated with, the portion of River Bend
included  in  the deregulated asset plan in Louisiana and the portion  of  River
Bend  placed in abeyance as part of the Texas rate order which went into  effect
in July 1988. See Note 2 for further information.  Future earnings will continue
to  be  limited as long as the limited recovery of the investment  and  lack  of
return continues.

      For the year ended December 31, 1994, GSU recorded revenues resulting from
the  sale of electricity from the deregulated asset plan of approximately  $34.1
million.  Operation and maintenance expenses, including fuel, were approximately
$30 million, and depreciation expense associated with the deregulated asset plan
investment was approximately $16.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.
For  the  year  ended December 31, 1994, GSU recorded nonfuel revenue  of  $32.5
million  (included in the $34.1 million of total deregulated asset plan  revenue
discussed  above) which, absent the deregulated asset plan, would not have  been
realized.   The  operation  and maintenance expenses  and  depreciation  expense
allocated  to  the  deregulated asset plan as detailed  above  would  have  been
incurred  at River Bend with or without the deregulated asset plan.  The  future
impact  of  the  deregulated  asset  plan on GSU's  results  of  operations  and
financial  position  will  depend on River Bend's future  operating  costs,  the
unit's  efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy  over  the
remaining life of the unit.  Based on current estimates of the factors discussed
above, GSU anticipates that future revenues from the deregulated asset plan will
fully recover all related costs.

Property Tax Exemptions

      Exemptions from the payment of Louisiana local property taxes on Waterford
3 and River Bend, which have been in effect for 10 years for each of the plants,
will expire in December 1995 and December 1996, respectively.  LP&L and GSU  are
working  with  taxing  authorities to determine the method for  calculating  the
amount  of  the  property  taxes to be paid when the  exemptions  expire.   LP&L
believes  that  assessed  property taxes will be recovered  from  its  customers
through  rates.   GSU  believes that assessed property taxes  allocated  to  its
retail jurisdictions will be recovered from those customers through rates.

Environmental Issues

      GSU has been notified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA)  that  it has been designated as a potentially responsible party  for  the
cleanup  of  sites  on which GSU and others have or have been  alleged  to  have
disposed   of  material  designated  as  hazardous  waste.   GSU  is   currently
negotiating with the EPA and state authorities regarding the cleanup of some  of
these sites.  Several class action and other suits have been filed in state  and
federal  courts  seeking relief from GSU and others for damages  caused  by  the
disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting
from  exposure  on  GSU  premises.  While the amounts at issue  in  the  cleanup
efforts  and  suits  may  be  substantial, GSU  believes  that  its  results  of
operations  and  financial  condition will not be  materially  affected  by  the
outcome of the suits.

      During 1993, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality issued  new
rules for solid waste regulation, including waste water impoundments.  LP&L  has
determined that certain of its power plant waste water impoundments are affected
by  these  regulations  and  has chosen to either upgrade  or  close  them.  The
aggregate  cost  of  the  upgrades and closures, to be  completed  by  1996,  is
estimated to be $16 million.

Accounting Issues

     Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS on "Accounting
for  the  Impairment  of Long-Lived Assets," effective  January  1,  1996.   The
proposed  standard describes circumstances which may result in assets (including
goodwill  such as the Merger acquisition adjustment, see Note 1) being  impaired
and provides criteria for recognition and measurement of asset impairment.  Note
2  describes  regulatory assets of $170 million (net of tax)  related  to  Texas
retail  deferred  River Bend operating and carrying costs.  Management  believes
these deferred costs will be required to be written off under the provisions  of
the  new standard unless there are favorable regulatory or court actions related
to  these  costs prior to the adoption of the new standard by Entergy.   Certain
other  operations of Entergy are potentially affected by this standard, and  any
resulting  write-offs will depend on future operating costs,  generating  units'
efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy over the remaining
life  of the units.  Based on current estimates, Entergy anticipates that future
revenues will fully recover the costs of such operations.

     Continued Application of SFAS 71 - Entergy's financial statements currently
reflect,  for  the  most  part,  assets and costs based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS  71, "Accounting for the Effects
of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation."  As discussed above, the  electric  utility
industry   is  changing  and  these  changes  could  possibly  result   in   the
discontinuance  of   the  application of SFAS 71,  which  would  result  in  the
elimination  of  regulatory assets and liabilities.   See  Note  1  for  further
information.

      Accounting for Decommissioning Costs - The FASB is currently reviewing the
accounting  for  decommissioning of nuclear plants. This project could  possibly
change  the  System's, as well as the entire utility industry's, accounting  for
such costs.  For further information, see Note 8.




                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Entergy  Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries: AP&L, GSU,  LP&L,
MP&L,  NOPSI, System Energy, Entergy Operations, Entergy Pakistan, Ltd., Entergy
Power,   Entergy   Power   Development  Corporation,  Entergy   Richmond   Power
Corporation, Entergy Services, System Fuels, Entergy Enterprises, Entergy  SASI,
Entergy S.A., Entergy Argentina S.A, Entergy Transener S.A., Entergy Power Asia,
Ltd.,  Entergy  Yacyreta  I,  Inc.,  and  Entergy  Edegel,  Inc.   Because   the
acquisition  of  GSU  was consummated on December 31, 1993, under  the  purchase
method  of  accounting,  GSU  is  included  only  in  the  December  31,   1993,
consolidated  balance sheet amounts.  GSU is included in all of the consolidated
financial statements for 1994.  All references made to Entergy or the System  as
of,  and  subsequent to, the Merger closing date include amounts and information
pertaining   to  GSU  as  an  Entergy  company.   All  significant  intercompany
transactions  have been eliminated.  Entergy Corporation's utility  subsidiaries
maintain  accounts  in  accordance with FERC and  other  regulatory  guidelines.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      The  System  operating  companies accrue  estimated  revenues  for  energy
delivered  since the latest billings.  However, prior to January 1, 1993,  AP&L,
GSU,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI recognized electric and gas revenues  when  billed.   To
provide  a better matching of revenues and expenses, effective January 1,  1993,
AP&L,  GSU, MP&L, and NOPSI adopted a change in accounting principle to  provide
for  accrual  of  estimated unbilled revenues.  The cumulative  effect  of  this
accounting change as of January 1, 1993, (excluding GSU) increased net income by
$93.8 million or $0.54 per share.  Had this new accounting method been in effect
during prior years, net income before the cumulative effect would not have  been
materially  different from that shown in the accompanying financial  statements.
In  accordance with a LPSC rate order, GSU recorded a deferred credit  of  $16.6
million  for  the  January 1, 1993, amount of unbilled  revenues.   See  Note  2
regarding recent LPSC rate actions regarding the deferred unbilled revenues.

      The  System operating companies' rate schedules (except GSU's Texas retail
rate  schedules)  include  fuel adjustment clauses  that  allow  either  current
recovery  or  deferrals  of fuel costs until such costs  are  reflected  in  the
related revenues.  GSU's Texas retail rate schedules include a fixed fuel factor
approved by the PUCT, which remains in effect until changed as part of a general
rate case, fuel reconciliation, or a fixed fuel factor filing.

Utility Plant

      Utility  plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of  utility
plant  retired or removed, plus the applicable removal costs, less  salvage,  is
charged   to   accumulated  depreciation.   Maintenance,  repairs,   and   minor
replacement costs are charged to operating expenses.  Substantially all  of  the
utility plant is subject to liens of the subsidiaries' mortgage bond indentures.

      Utility plant includes the portions of Grand Gulf 1 and Waterford  3  that
were  sold  and  are  currently under lease.  For financial reporting  purposes,
these sale and leaseback transactions are reflected as financing transactions.

      Total System net electric utility plant in service of $14.5 billion as  of
December  31,  1994, (excluding approximately $0.5 billion of plant  acquisition
adjustment  related  to the Merger) includes $9.8 billion of  production  plant,
$1.4 billion of transmission plant, $2.8 billion of distribution plant, and $0.5
billion of other plant.

      Depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis at rates based on  the
estimated service lives and costs of removal of the various classes of property.
Depreciation  provisions on average depreciable property  approximated  3.0%  in
1994 and 1993, and 3.1% in 1992.

      AFUDC  represents the approximate net composite interest cost of  borrowed
funds  and  a  reasonable  return on the equity  funds  used  for  construction.
Although  AFUDC  increases  utility plant and increases  earnings,  it  is  only
realized in cash through depreciation provisions included in rates.  The  System
operating  companies' effective composite rates for AFUDC were  9.5%  for  1994,
10.6% for 1993, and 10.8% for 1992.

Jointly-Owned Generating Stations

     Certain Entergy Corporation subsidiaries own undivided interests in several
jointly-owned  electric  generating facilities and record  the  investments  and
expenses  associated  with these generating stations  to  the  extent  of  their
respective  ownership  interests.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  the   System's
investment  and  accumulated depreciation in each of these  generating  stations
were as follows:



      (1)   Includes System Energy's ownership and leasehold interests in  Grand
            Gulf 1.
      (2)   See  Note  8 regarding the current status of Cajun's  30%  undivided
            ownership interest in River Bend.

Income Taxes

     Entergy Corporation and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income
tax return.  Income taxes are allocated to the System companies in proportion to
their contribution to consolidated taxable income.  SEC regulations require that
no  Entergy  Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it  would  have  had  a
separate  income  tax return been filed.  Deferred taxes are  recorded  for  all
temporary  differences between book and taxable income.  Investment tax  credits
are  deferred  and amortized based upon the average useful life of  the  related
property  in accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note  3,  in  1993
Entergy changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

Acquisition Adjustment

      Entergy  Corporation, upon completion of the Merger in December 1993  (see
Note  12  for additional details), recorded an acquisition adjustment in utility
plant  in  the  amount of $380 million representing the excess of  the  purchase
price over the net assets acquired of GSU.  During 1994, the System recorded  an
additional  $115 million of acquisition adjustment related to the resolution  of
certain  preacquisition  contingencies and appropriate  allocation  of  purchase
price, which combined with the amortization of the acquisition adjustment of $16
million  in  1994,  resulted  in  an unamortized  balance  of  $479  million  of
acquisition  adjustment as of December 31, 1994.  The acquisition adjustment  is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over a 31-year period beginning January
1,  1994,  which  approximates the remaining average  book  life  of  the  plant
acquired as a result of the Merger.  The System anticipates that its future  net
cash flows will be sufficient to recover such amortization.

Reacquired Debt

      The premiums and costs associated with reacquired debt are being amortized
over  the  life  of  the  related new issuances, in accordance  with  ratemaking
treatment.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Entergy considers all unrestricted highly liquid debt instruments purchased
with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a  result  of  the  EPAct and actions of regulatory  commissions,  the
electric  utility industry is moving toward a combination of competition  and  a
modified  regulatory  environment.  The System's financial statements  currently
reflect,  for  the  most  part,  assets and costs based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71, "Accounting for the  Effects
of  Certain  Types of Regulation."  Continued applicability of SFAS  71  to  the
System's  financial  statements  requires  that  rates  set  by  an  independent
regulator  on a cost-of-service basis (including a reasonable rate of return  on
invested capital) can actually be charged to and collected from customers.

      In  the event that either all or a portion of a utility's operations cease
to  meet those criteria for various reasons, including deregulation, a change in
the  method  of  regulation or a change in the competitive environment  for  the
utility's regulated services, the utility should discontinue application of SFAS
71  for  the  relevant  portion.  That discontinuation  should  be  reported  by
elimination  from the balance sheet of the effects of any actions of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As  of  December  31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future,  the  System's
financial  statements  continue to follow SFAS 71,  with  the  exceptions  noted
below.

SFAS 101

      SFAS 101, "Accounting for the Discontinuation of Application of FASB  71,"
specifies how an enterprise that ceases to meet the criteria for application  of
SFAS  71  to  all  or  part of its operations should report that  event  in  its
financial statements.  GSU discontinued regulatory accounting principles for its
wholesale  jurisdiction  and  steam department  and  the  Louisiana  deregulated
portion of River Bend during 1989 and 1991, respectively.

Fair Value Disclosures

      The  estimated fair value of financial instruments has been determined  by
Entergy,   using   available  market  information  and   appropriate   valuation
methodologies.   However, considerable judgment is required  in  developing  the
estimates of fair value.  Therefore, estimates are not necessarily indicative of
the  amounts  that  Entergy  could realize in a  current  market  exchange.   In
addition, gains or losses realized on financial instruments may be reflected  in
future rates and not accrue to the benefit of stockholders.

      Entergy considers the carrying amounts of financial instruments classified
as  current  assets and liabilities to be a reasonable estimate  of  their  fair
value  because of the short maturity of these instruments.  In addition, Entergy
does  not  presently expect that performance of its obligations will be required
in   connection  with  certain  off-balance  sheet  commitments  and  guarantees
considered  financial  instruments.  Due to this  factor,  and  because  of  the
related party nature of these commitments and guarantees, determination of  fair
value is not considered practicable.  See Notes 5, 6, and 8 for additional  fair
value disclosure.

      Entergy  adopted  the  provisions of SFAS  115,  "Accounting  for  Certain
Investments  in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January 1,  1994.   As  a
result,  at December 31, 1994, Entergy recorded on the balance sheet a reduction
of $2.2 million in decommissioning trust funds, representing the amount by which
the  fair  value of the securities held in such funds is less than  amounts  for
decommissioning  recovered in rates and deposited in the funds and  the  related
earnings  on  the  amounts  deposited.  Due  to  the  regulatory  treatment  for
decommissioning  trust  funds,  the  System recorded  an  offsetting  amount  in
unrealized losses on investment securities as a regulatory asset.


NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

River Bend

      In  May 1988, the PUCT granted GSU a permanent increase in annual revenues
of $59.9 million resulting from the inclusion in rate base of approximately $1.6
billion  of  company-wide  River Bend plant investment  and  approximately  $182
million  of related Texas retail jurisdiction deferred River Bend costs (Allowed
Deferrals).   In  addition, the PUCT disallowed as imprudent  $63.5  million  of
company-wide River Bend plant costs and placed in abeyance, with no  finding  of
prudence, approximately $1.4 billion of company-wide River Bend plant investment
and  approximately $157 million of Texas retail jurisdiction deferred River Bend
operating  and  carrying  costs.   The PUCT  affirmed  that  the  ultimate  rate
treatment  of  such  amounts  would be subject to future  demonstration  of  the
prudence  of such costs.  GSU and intervening parties appealed this order  (Rate
Appeal)  and  GSU filed a separate rate case asking that the abeyed  River  Bend
plant  costs  be found prudent (Separate Rate Case).  Intervening parties  filed
suit in a Texas district court to prohibit the Separate Rate Case.  The district
court's decision was ultimately appealed to the Texas Supreme Court, which ruled
in 1990 that the prudence of the purported abeyed costs could not be relitigated
in  a  separate rate proceeding.  The Texas Supreme Court's decision stated that
all  issues  relating  to the merits of the original PUCT order,  including  the
prudence  of  all  River  Bend-related costs, should be addressed  in  the  Rate
Appeal.

      In  October  1991, the Texas district court in the Rate Appeal  issued  an
order  holding  that, while it was clear the PUCT made an error in  assuming  it
could set aside $1.4 billion of the total costs of River Bend and consider  them
in  a  later proceeding, the PUCT, nevertheless, found that GSU had not met  its
burden of proof related to the amounts placed in abeyance.  The court also ruled
that  the  Allowed  Deferrals should not be included in rate  base.   The  court
further stated that the PUCT had erred in reducing GSU's deferred costs by $1.50
for  each $1.00 of revenue collected under the interim rate increases authorized
in  1987 and 1988.  The court remanded the case to the PUCT with instructions as
to the proper handling of the Allowed Deferrals.  GSU's motion for rehearing was
denied  and, in December 1991, GSU filed an appeal of the October 1991  district
court  order.   The  PUCT also appealed the October 1991 district  court  order,
which   served  to  supersede  the  district  court's  judgment,  rendering   it
unenforceable under Texas law.

      In  August 1994, the Texas Third District Court of Appeals (the  Appellate
Court)  affirmed  the  district  court's decision  that  there  was  substantial
evidence  to  support  the  PUCT's  1988 decision  not  to  include  the  abeyed
construction  costs in GSU's rate base.  While acknowledging that the  PUCT  had
exceeded its authority when it attempted to defer a decision on the inclusion of
those  costs  in  rate  base  in order to allow GSU  a  further  opportunity  to
demonstrate  the  prudence  of  those costs  in  a  subsequent  proceeding,  the
Appellate Court found that GSU had suffered no harm or lack of due process as  a
result  of  the  PUCT's error.  Accordingly, the Appellate Court held  that  the
PUCT's  action  had the effect of disallowing the company-wide $1.4  billion  of
River  Bend  construction costs for ratemaking purposes.   In  its  August  1994
opinion,  the  Appellate  Court  also held that  GSU's  deferred  operating  and
maintenance  costs associated with the allowed portion of River Bend  should  be
included in rate base and that GSU's deferred River Bend carrying costs included
in  the  Allowed Deferrals should also be included in rate base.  The  Appellate
Court's August 1994 opinion affirmed the PUCT's original order in this case.

     The Appellate Court's August 1994 opinion was entered by two judges, with a
third  judge dissenting.  The dissenting opinion states that the result  of  the
majority  opinion is, among other things, to deprive GSU of due process  at  the
PUCT  because  the  PUCT  never  reached  a  finding  on  the  $1.4  billion  of
construction costs.

      In October 1994, the Appellate Court denied GSU's motion for rehearing  on
the  August 1994 opinion as to the $1.4 billion in River Bend construction costs
and  other  matters.  GSU appealed the Appellate Court's decision to  the  Texas
Supreme Court, where it is pending.

      As  of December 31, 1994, the River Bend plant costs disallowed for retail
ratemaking  purposes in Texas, the River Bend plant costs held in abeyance,  and
the  related  operating  and  carrying cost deferrals  totaled  (net  of  taxes)
approximately  $13  million, $280 million (both net of depreciation),  and  $170
million,  respectively.  Allowed Deferrals were approximately $107 million,  net
of  taxes  and  amortization, as of December 31, 1994.   GSU  estimates  it  has
collected approximately $158 million of revenues as of December 31, 1994,  as  a
result  of  the originally ordered rate treatment by the PUCT of these  deferred
costs.   If  recovery  of the Allowed Deferrals is not upheld,  future  revenues
based  upon those allowed deferrals could also be lost, and no assurance can  be
given  as to whether or not refunds of revenue received based upon such deferred
costs previously recorded will be required.

      No  assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of the  remands  or
appeals  described above.  Pending further developments in these cases, GSU  has
made  no  write-offs or reserves for the River Bend-related  costs.   Management
believes,  based  on  advice  from  Clark,  Thomas  &  Winters,  a  Professional
Corporation,  legal counsel of record in the Rate Appeal, that it is  reasonably
possible  that  the  case will be remanded to the PUCT, and  the  PUCT  will  be
allowed to rule on the prudence of the abeyed River Bend plant costs.  Rate Caps
imposed  by  the PUCT's regulatory approval of the Merger could  result  in  GSU
being  unable  to  use  the full amount of a favorable decision  to  immediately
increase rates; however, a favorable decision could permit some increases and/or
limit  or  prevent decreases during the period the Rate Caps are in effect.   At
this  time,  management and legal counsel are unable to predict the  amount,  if
any,  of  the  abeyed  and previously disallowed River  Bend  plant  costs  that
ultimately may be disallowed by the PUCT.  A net of tax write-off as of December
31,  1994, of up to $293 million could be required based on an ultimate  adverse
ruling by the PUCT on the abeyed and disallowed costs.

      In  prior proceedings, the PUCT has held that the original cost of nuclear
power  plants will be included in rates to the extent those costs were prudently
incurred.  Based upon the PUCT's prior decisions, management believes  that  its
River  Bend construction costs were prudently incurred and that it is reasonably
possible that it will recover in rate base, or otherwise through means such as a
deregulated asset plan, all or substantially all of the abeyed River Bend  plant
costs.  However, management also recognizes that it is reasonably possible  that
not all of the abeyed River Bend plant costs may ultimately be recovered.

      As  part  of its direct case in the Separate Rate Case, GSU filed  a  cost
reconciliation study prepared by Sandlin Associates, management consultants with
expertise  in  the  cost analysis of nuclear power plants,  which  supports  the
reasonableness  of  the River Bend costs held in abeyance  by  the  PUCT.   This
reconciliation  study determined that approximately 82% of the River  Bend  cost
increase  above  the amount included by the PUCT in rate base was  a  result  of
changes  in  federal nuclear safety requirements and provided other support  for
the remainder of the abeyed amounts.

      There  have  been  four other rate proceedings in Texas involving  nuclear
power plants.  Investment in the plants ultimately disallowed ranged from 0%  to
15%.  Each  case  was  unique,  and the  disallowances  in each were made  on  a
case-by-case   basis  for  different  reasons.    Appeals  of two of  these PUCT
decisions  are currently pending.

     The following factors support management's position that a loss contingency
requiring  accrual has not occurred, and its belief that all,  or  substantially
all, of the abeyed plant costs will ultimately be recovered:

     1. The  $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs have never been ruled
        imprudent and disallowed by the PUCT.
     2. Sandlin   Associates'   analysis  which   supports   the   prudence   of
        substantially all of the abeyed construction costs.
     3. Historical inclusion by the PUCT of prudent construction costs  in  rate
        base.
     4. The  analysis  of  GSU's  internal legal staff, which  has  considerable
        experience in Texas rate case litigation.
     
      Additionally,  management believes, based on advice from Clark,  Thomas  &
Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record in the Rate Appeal,
that  it is reasonably possible that the Allowed Deferrals will continue  to  be
recovered  in  rates.   Management also believes, based on  advice  from  Clark,
Thomas  &  Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record  in  the
Rate  Appeal, that it is reasonably possible that the deferred costs related  to
the $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs will be recovered in rates  to
the  extent  that  the  $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend  plant  is  recovered.
However, a net of tax write-off of the $170 million of deferred costs related to
the  $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs would be required if they are
not allowed to be recovered in rates.

      A  proposed accounting standard, "Accounting for the Impairment  of  Long-
Lived  Assets,"  which  is expected to become effective  January  1,  1996,  may
require  the  write-off of the $170 million of rate deferrals  discussed  above,
upon  adoption of the standard, unless there are favorable regulatory  or  court
actions related to these costs prior to adoption.

Merger-Related Rate Agreements

      In  November 1993, Entergy Corporation, AP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI entered into
separate  settlement agreements whereby the APSC, MPSC, and  Council  agreed  to
withdraw  from the SEC proceeding related to the Merger.  In return AP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI  agreed,  among other things, that their retail ratepayers  would  be
protected  from  (1)  increases  in the cost of  capital  resulting  from  risks
associated  with  the  Merger, (2) recovery of any portion  of  the  acquisition
premium  or  transactional costs associated with the Merger, (3) certain  direct
allocations of costs associated with GSU's River Bend nuclear unit, and (4)  any
losses  of  GSU resulting from resolution of litigation in connection  with  its
ownership of River Bend.  AP&L and MP&L agreed not to request any general retail
rate  increase  that would take effect before November 1998, except  for,  among
other  things, increases associated with the recovery of certain Grand  Gulf  1-
related costs, recovery of certain taxes, and force majeure (defined to include,
among  other things, war, natural catastrophes, and high inflation), and in  the
case  of  AP&L, excess capacity costs and costs related to the adoption of  SFAS
106  that  were  previously deferred.  MP&L also agreed that retail  base  rates
under  the  formula  rate plan would not be increased above  November  1,  1993,
levels for a period of five years beginning November 9, 1993 (described below).

      In 1993, the LPSC and the PUCT approved separate regulatory proposals that
include  the  following  elements: (1) a five-year  Rate  Cap  on  GSU's  retail
electric  base rates in the respective states, except for force majeure (defined
to  include, among other things, war, natural catastrophes, and high inflation);
(2) a provision for passing through to retail customers in the respective states
the jurisdictional portion of the fuel savings created by the Merger; and (3)  a
mechanism for tracking nonfuel operation and maintenance savings created by  the
Merger.   The  LPSC regulatory plan provides that such nonfuel savings  will  be
shared  60%  by  the shareholder and 40% by ratepayers during  the  eight  years
following  the Merger.  The LPSC plan requires regulatory filings each  year  by
the  end  of  May  through 2001.  The PUCT regulatory plan  provides  that  such
savings  will be shared equally by the shareholder and ratepayers,  except  that
the  shareholder's portion will be reduced by $2.6 million per year on  a  total
company basis in years four through eight.  The PUCT plan also requires a series
of  future  regulatory filings in November 1996, 1998, and 2001 to  ensure  that
ratepayers'  share of such savings be reflected in rates on a timely  basis  and
requires Entergy Corporation to hold GSU's Texas retail customers harmless  from
the  effects  of the removal by FERC of a 40% cap on the amount of fuel  savings
GSU  may  be required to transfer to other System operating companies under  the
FERC  tracking mechanism (see below).  On January 14, 1994, Entergy  Corporation
filed  a request for rehearing of FERC's December 15, 1993, order approving  the
Merger  requesting  that FERC restore the 40% cap provision  in  the  fuel  cost
protection mechanism.  The matter is pending.

      FERC  approved  certain rate schedule changes to integrate  GSU  into  the
System  Agreement.   Certain  commitments were  adopted  to  provide  reasonable
assurance  that  the  ratepayers of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI  will  not  be
allocated  higher costs, including, among other things, (1) a tracking mechanism
to protect AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI from certain unexpected increases in fuel
costs,  (2) the distribution of profits from power sales contracts entered  into
prior to the Merger, (3) a methodology to estimate the cost of capital in future
FERC proceedings, and (4) a stipulation that AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI will be
insulated  from certain direct effects on capacity equalization payments  should
GSU acquire Cajun's 30% share in River Bend (see Note 8).

Formula Rate Plan

      Under a formulary incentive rate plan (Formula Rate Plan) effective  March
25,  1994,  MP&L's  earned rate of return is calculated automatically  every  12
months  and  compared  to  and  adjusted against  a  benchmark  rate  of  return
(calculated under a separate formula within the Formula Rate Plan).  The Formula
Rate  Plan  allows for periodic small adjustments in rates based on a comparison
of  earned  to benchmark returns and upon certain performance factors.   In  the
same proceeding, the MPSC conducted a general review of MP&L's current rates and
on  March  1,  1994,  issued a final order adopting the Formula  Rate  Plan  and
previously  agreed-upon stipulations of (1) a required return on equity  of  11%
and  (2)  certain accounting adjustments that resulted in a 4.3% ($28.1 million)
reduction  in  MP&L's June 30, 1993, test-year base revenues.  The MPSC's  order
required  MP&L to file rates designed to provide for this reduction in operating
revenues  for the test year on or before March 18, 1994, which became  effective
March  25, 1994.  The final order was appealed to the Mississippi Supreme  Court
on May 17, 1994, by Mississippi Valley Gas Company (MVG) on the grounds that the
MPSC  issued  the  final  order  without having  reviewed  the  cost  of  MP&L's
promotional  practices, some of which MVG alleged to be improper.  MVG  filed  a
motion  to dismiss the appeal, and on October 28, 1994, the Mississippi  Supreme
Court granted MVG's motion.

FERC Settlement

      In  November  1994,  FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-standing
dispute  involving  income  tax  allocation procedures  of  System  Energy.   In
accordance  with  the  agreement,  System Energy  refunded  approximately  $61.7
million  to  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, which in turn have made or  will  make
refunds or credits to their customers (except for those portions attributable to
AP&L's  and LP&L's retained share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).  Additionally,  System
Energy will refund a total of approximately $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L,  and NOPSI over the period through June 2004.  The settlement  also
required  the  write-off  of certain related unamortized  balances  of  deferred
investment  tax credits by AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  The settlement  reduced
Entergy  Corporation's consolidated net income for the year ended  December  31,
1994, by approximately $68.2 million, offset by the write-off of the unamortized
balances  of  related  deferred investment tax credits  of  approximately  $69.4
million  ($2.9  million for Entergy Corporation; $27.3 million for  AP&L;  $31.5
million  for  LP&L;  $6 million for MP&L; and $1.7 million  for  NOPSI).  System
Energy   also   reclassified  from  utility  plant  to  other  deferred   debits
approximately  $81 million of other Grand Gulf 1 costs.  Although excluded  from
rate  base, System Energy will be permitted to recover such costs over a 10-year
period.   Interest on the $62 million refund and the loss of the return  on  the
$81  million  of  other  Grand  Gulf 1 costs will reduce  Entergy's  and  System
Energy's  net  income by approximately $10 million annually  over  the  next  10
years.

      As  a  result of the charges associated with the settlement, System Energy
obtained  the consent of certain banks (parties to the Reimbursement  Agreement)
to waive temporarily the fixed charge coverage covenant in the letters of credit
and  Reimbursement  Agreement related to the Grand Gulf  1  sale  and  leaseback
transaction until November 30, 1995.  System Energy expects that upon expiration
of  the  waiver period, it will be in compliance with the fixed charge  coverage
covenant.   Absent  a waiver, System Energy's failure to perform  this  covenant
could  cause a draw under the letters of credit and/or early termination of  the
letters  of  credit.   If the letters of credit were not replaced  in  a  timely
manner, a default or early termination of System Energy's leases could result.

Rate Deferrals

      The  System  operating companies have various rate moderation or  phase-in
plans  that  reduced  the  immediate effect of Grand Gulf  1,  River  Bend,  and
Waterford  3 costs on ratepayers.  Under these plans, certain costs  are  either
retained  permanently  (and not recovered from ratepayers),  deferred  in  early
years  and  collected  in  later years, or recovered currently  from  customers.
These  plans vary in the proportions of costs each company retains,  defers,  or
recovers  and in the length of the deferral/recovery periods.  Only those  costs
retained  permanently and not recovered through rates or through sales to  third
parties  result  in a reduction of net income.  The carrying charges  associated
with  unamortized  deferrals were either deferred or  recovered  currently  from
customers.

      GSU  deferred  approximately $369 million of River Bend  operating  costs,
purchased  power costs, and accrued carrying charges pursuant  to  a  1986  PUCT
accounting order.  Approximately $182 million of these costs are being amortized
over  a  20-year period, and the remaining $187 million are not being  amortized
pending  the ultimate outcome of the Rate Appeal.  As of December 31, 1994,  the
unamortized  balance  of these costs was $321 million.   Further,  GSU  deferred
approximately $400.4 million of similar costs pursuant to a 1986 LPSC accounting
order.  These costs, of which approximately $122 million were unamortized as  of
December 31, 1994, are being amortized over a 10-year period ending in 1997.

      In accordance with a phase-in plan approved by the LPSC, GSU deferred $294
million  of  its  River Bend costs related to the period February  1988  through
February  1991.  GSU has amortized $129 million through December 31,  1994,  and
the remainder of $165 million will be recovered over approximately 3.2 years.

      AP&L's  permanently retained share of Grand Gulf 1 costs is 7.92% in  1994
and  all succeeding years of the unit's commercial operation.  In the event AP&L
is not able to sell its retained share to third parties, it may sell such energy
to  its  retail customers at a price equal to its avoided energy cost, which  is
currently less than AP&L's cost of such energy.  LP&L permanently absorbs 18% of
its  14%  (approximately  2.52%) FERC-allocated share of  Grand  Gulf  1-related
costs.  LP&L is able to recover through the fuel adjustment clause 4.6 cents per
KWH  (as  of May 1994) for the energy related to its retained portion  of  these
costs.   Alternatively,  LP&L may sell such energy to nonaffiliated  parties  at
prices  above  the  fuel  adjustment clause recovery  amount,  subject  to  LPSC
approval.   For the year ended December 31, 1994, System Energy's  billings  for
Grand  Gulf  1-related costs totaled approximately $475 million.  A  deregulated
asset plan representing an unregulated portion (approximately 22%) of River Bend
(plant costs, generation, revenues, and expenses) was established pursuant to  a
January  1992  LPSC  order.   The plan allows GSU to  sell  such  generation  to
Louisiana  retail customers at 4.6 cents per KWH or off-System at higher  prices
with  certain sharing provisions for such incremental revenue.  Based on current
estimates,  Entergy  anticipates that future revenues  will  fully  recover  all
related costs.

Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities

      In  March  1994,  the Texas Office of Public Utility Counsel  and  certain
cities served by GSU instituted an investigation of the reasonableness of  GSU's
rates.  In June 1994, GSU provided the cities with information that GSU believed
supported the current rate level.  GSU filed the same information with the  PUCT
in  June 1994, pursuant to provisions of the Merger.  In September 1994, various
cities  adopted  ordinances directing GSU to reduce its Texas  retail  rates  by
$45.9  million.   GSU  appealed  the  cities'  ordinances  to  the  PUCT  for  a
determination of reasonableness of GSU's rates.

      In  November  1994, those cities that intervened in the PUCT appeal  filed
testimony with the PUCT supporting a $118 million base rate reduction in lieu of
the  previously  proposed $45.9 million reduction.  In November 1994,  the  PUCT
staff  filed testimony that supported a $38.2 million base rate reduction.   GSU
filed information with the PUCT that it believed supported the current level  of
rates.   Hearings  were held in December 1994 and on March 20,  1995,  the  PUCT
ordered  a  $72.9  million annual base rate reduction for the period  March  31,
1994,  through September 1, 1994, decreasing to an annual base rate reduction of
$52.9 million after September 1, 1994.  In accordance with the Merger agreement,
the rate reduction is applied retroactively to March 31, 1994.  As a result, GSU
recorded  a $57 million reserve for rate refund in 1994.  The rate reduction  is
being appealed and no assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of  the
appeal.

Texas Cities Rate Settlement - 1993

      In  June  1993,  13 cities within GSU's Texas service area  instituted  an
investigation  to  determine whether GSU's current  rates  were  justified.   In
October  1993,  the general counsel of the PUCT instituted an inquiry  into  the
reasonableness  of  GSU's rates.  In November 1993, a settlement  agreement  was
filed  with  the  PUCT which provided for an initial reduction in  GSU's  annual
retail  base  revenues  in Texas of approximately $22.5  million  effective  for
electric  usage  on  or after November 1, 1993, and a second  reduction  of  $20
million effective September 1994.  Pursuant to the settlement, GSU reduced rates
with  a  $20  million  one-time  bill credit  in  December  1993,  and  refunded
approximately  $3  million  to  Texas retail  customers  on  bills  rendered  in
December  1993.   The PUCT approved the settlement agreement on July  21,  1994.
The cities' rate inquiries were settled earlier on the same terms.

LPSC Rate Reviews

      In  May  1994,  GSU made the required first post-Merger earnings  analysis
filing  with  the LPSC.  On December 14, 1994, the LPSC ordered a $12.7  million
annual  rate reduction for GSU effective January 1995.  The rate order included,
among  other  things,  a reduction in GSU's Louisiana jurisdictional  authorized
return  on equity from 12.75% to 10.95% and the amortization for the benefit  of
the   customer  of  $8.3  million  of  previously  deferred  unbilled   revenue,
representing  one-half  of the total resulting from a change  in  accounting  as
discussed  in  Note  1.   On  December  28, 1994,  GSU  received  a  preliminary
injunction from the 19th Judicial District Court regarding $8.3 million  of  the
reduction.   On January 1, 1995, GSU reduced rates by $4.4 million.  The  entire
$12.7  million reduction is being appealed and no assurance can be given  as  to
the timing or outcome of the appeal.

      In  August 1994, LP&L filed a performance-based formula rate plan with the
LPSC.   The  proposed formula rate plan would continue existing  LP&L  rates  at
current levels, while providing financial incentive to reduce costs and maintain
high  levels  of  customer satisfaction and system reliability.   A  performance
rating adjustment feature of the plan would allow LP&L the opportunity to earn a
higher  rate  of  return if it improves performance over time.   Conversely,  if
performance declines, the rate of return LP&L could earn would be lowered.  This
provides financial incentive for LP&L to maintain continuous improvement in  all
three  performance  categories  (customer  price,  customer  satisfaction,   and
customer reliability).  Under the proposed plan, if LP&L's earnings fall  within
a  bandwidth around a benchmark rate of return, there would be no adjustment  in
rates.   If  LP&L's  earnings are above the bandwidth, the proposed  plan  would
automatically reduce LP&L's base rates.  Alternatively, if LP&L's  earnings  are
below the bandwidth, the proposed plan would automatically increase LP&L's  base
rates.   The reduction or increase in base rates would be an amount representing
50% of the difference between the earned rate of return and the nearest limit of
the  bandwidth.  In no event would the annual adjustment in rates exceed  2%  of
LP&L's  retail  revenues.  Hearings  were  held in  March  1995.   No  assurance
can be given that the LPSC will accept the performance-based  formula rate plan,
or that the current rate review will not result in a rate decrease.

February 1994 Ice Storm/Rate Rider

      In  early  February  1994,  an ice storm left more  than  221,000  Entergy
customers  without electric power across the System's four-state  service  area.
The  storm  was  the  most severe natural disaster ever to  affect  the  System,
causing  damage  to transmission and distribution lines, equipment,  poles,  and
facilities  in  certain areas, primarily in Mississippi.  Repair  costs  totaled
approximately $116.2 million, $30.8 million, and $77.2 million for  the  System,
AP&L, and MP&L, respectively, with $85 million, $18.7 million, and $64.6 million
of  these  amounts  capitalized as plant-related costs.  The remaining  balances
have  been  charged  against the respective companies' regulatory  storm  damage
reserves,  except for MP&L which recorded a deferred debit.  On April 15,  1994,
MP&L  filed for rate recovery of costs related to the ice storm.  MP&L's filing,
as   subsequently  amended,  requested  recovery  of  the  revenue   requirement
associated  with  MP&L's  ice  storm  costs recorded  through  April  30,  1994,
representing approximately 86% of the total estimated ice storm costs.  MP&L may
make  another  ice storm rate filing with the MPSC during 1995  to  recover  ice
storm costs recorded by MP&L after April 30, 1994.  In August 1994, MP&L and the
MPSC's  Public Utilities Staff entered into a stipulation  with respect  to  the
recovery  of  ice storm costs recorded through April 30, 1994, and in  September
1994,   the  MPSC  approved  the  stipulation.   Under  the  stipulation,   MP&L
implemented an ice storm rider schedule, which went into effect on September 29,
1994, that will increase rates approximately $8 million annually for five years.
At  the end of the five-year period, the revenue requirement associated with the
undepreciated ice storm capitalized costs will be included in MP&L's base  rates
to  the  extent that this revenue requirement does not result in MP&L's rate  of
return  on  rate  base  being above the benchmark rate of  return  under  MP&L's
formula rate plan.

PUCT Fuel Cost Review (December 1, 1986 - September 30, 1991)

      In  January 1992, GSU applied to the PUCT for a new fixed fuel factor  and
requested  a  final  reconciliation of fuel and purchased power  costs  incurred
between  December 1, 1986, and September 30, 1991.  GSU proposed to recover  net
underrecoveries  and  interest  (including  underrecoveries  related  to  Nelson
Industrial Steam Company (NISCO), discussed below) over a 12-month period.

      In April 1993, the presiding PUCT administrative law judge (ALJ) issued  a
report   concluding   that   GSU   incurred  approximately   $117   million   of
nonreimbursable fuel costs on a company-wide basis (approximately $50 million on
a Texas retail jurisdictional basis) during the reconciliation period.  Included
in  the  nonreimbursable fuel costs were payments above GSU's avoided cost  rate
for  power  purchased from NISCO.  The PUCT ordered in 1986 that  the  purchased
power costs from NISCO in excess of GSU's avoided costs be disallowed.  The PUCT
disallowance resulted in approximately $12 million to $15 million of unrecovered
purchased power costs on an annual basis, which GSU continued to expense as  the
costs  were incurred.  In April 1991, the Texas Supreme Court, in the appeal  of
such order, ordered the PUCT to allow GSU to recover purchased power payments in
excess  of  its  avoided cost in future proceedings, if GSU established  to  the
PUCT's satisfaction that the payments were reasonable and necessary expenses.

      In June 1993, the PUCT concluded that the purchased power payments made to
NISCO in excess of GSU's avoided cost were not reasonably incurred.  As a result
of the order, GSU recorded additional fuel expenses (including interest) of $2.8
million for non-NISCO related items.  The PUCT's order resulted in no additional
expenses related to the NISCO issue, or for overcollections related to the fixed
fuel  factor, as those charges were expensed by GSU as they were incurred.   The
PUCT  concluded that GSU had over-collected its fuel costs in Texas and  ordered
GSU  to  refund  approximately  $33.8 million to  its  Texas  retail  customers,
including approximately $7.5 million of interest.  In that proceeding, the  PUCT
also  set GSU's fixed fuel factor in Texas at 1.84 cents per KWH in response  to
GSU's  request  that the factor be set at 2.02 cents per KWH.  In October  1993,
GSU  appealed  the PUCT's order to the Travis County District  Court  where  the
matter  is still pending.  No assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome
of  that  appeal.  In a subsequent proceeding to review GSU's fuel  factor,  the
PUCT approved GSU's request to further reduce its fixed fuel factor in Texas  to
1.78 cents per KWH from 1.84 cents per KWH.

PUCT Fuel Cost Review (October 1, 1991 - December  31, 1993)

      On  January 9, 1995,  GSU and various parties reached an agreement for the
reconciliation of over- and under-recovery of fuel and purchased power  expenses
for the period October 1, 1991, through December 31, 1993.  While the settlement
still  requires PUCT approval, GSU believes it will ultimately be  approved  and
has accordingly recorded a reserve of $7.6 million.

LPSC Fuel Cost Review

      In  November 1993, the LPSC ordered a review of GSU's fuel costs  for  the
period  October  1988 through September 1991 (Phase 1) based on  the  number  of
outages at River Bend and the findings in the June 1993 PUCT fuel reconciliation
case.   In July 1994, the LPSC ruled in the Phase 1 fuel review case and ordered
GSU  to  refund approximately $27 million to its customers.  Under the order,  a
refund of $13.1 million, which was not contested under a Louisiana Supreme Court
decision  as  discussed below, was made through a billing credit on August  1994
bills.   In  August 1994, GSU appealed the remaining portion of the LPSC-ordered
refund  to  the  district  court.  GSU has made no  reserve  for  the  remaining
portion, pending outcome of the district court appeal, and no assurance  can  be
given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

      On  January  18, 1995, GSU met with the special counsel  of  the  LPSC  to
discuss  the procedural schedule for the upcoming fuel review (Phase  II).   The
period  under investigation was determined to be from October 1991  to  December
1994.  Hearings are scheduled to begin in July 1995.

      In  February 1990, the LPSC disallowed the pass-through to ratepayers  for
the  portion of GSU's cost to purchase power from NISCO representing the  excess
of NISCO's purchase price of the units over GSU's depreciated cost of the units.
GSU  appealed the 1990 order.  In March 1994, the Louisiana Supreme Court  ruled
in  favor  of the LPSC.  In 1994, GSU recorded an estimated refund provision  of
$13.1 million, before related income taxes of $5.3 million.

1994 NOPSI Settlement

      In  a  settlement with the Council that was approved on December 29, 1994,
NOPSI  agreed to reduce electric and gas rates and issue credits and refunds  to
customers.   Effective  January  1,  1995, NOPSI  implemented  a  $31.8  million
permanent  reduction  in  electric  base rates  and  a  $3.1  million  permanent
reduction in gas base rates.  These adjustments resolved issues associated  with
NOPSI's return on equity exceeding 13.76% for the test year ended September  30,
1994.   Under  the  1991 NOPSI Settlement, NOPSI is recovering from  its  retail
customers its allocable share of certain costs related to Grand Gulf 1.  NOPSI's
base  rates  to recover those costs were derived from estimates of  those  costs
made  at  that  time.  Any overrecovery of costs is required to be  returned  to
customers.   Grand Gulf 1 has experienced lower operating costs than  previously
estimated, and NOPSI accordingly is reducing its base rates in two steps to more
accurately match the current costs related to Grand Gulf 1.  On January 1, 1995,
NOPSI  implemented a $10 million permanent reduction in base electric  rates  to
reflect  the  reduced  costs related to Grand Gulf  1,  to  be  followed  by  an
additional $4.4 million rate reduction on October 31, 1995.  These Grand Gulf  1
rate  reductions,  which are expected to be largely offset  by  lower  operating
costs, may reduce NOPSI's after-tax net income by approximately $1.4 million per
year  beginning November 1, 1995.  The next scheduled Grand Gulf 1 phase-in rate
increase in the amount of $4.4 million on October 31, 1995, will not be affected
by the 1994 NOPSI Settlement.
     
      The  1994  NOPSI  Settlement also requires NOPSI to credit  its  customers
$25  million  over  a 21-month period, beginning January 1, 1995,  in  order  to
resolve disputes with the Council regarding the interpretation of the 1991 NOPSI
Settlement.   NOPSI  reduced  its  revenues  by  $25  million  and  recorded   a
$15.4  million  net-of-tax  reserve associated with the  credit  in  the  fourth
quarter of 1994.  The 1994 NOPSI Settlement further required NOPSI to refund, in
December  1994,  $13.3 million of credits previously scheduled  to  be  made  to
customers during the period January 1995 through July 1995.  These credits  were
associated with a July 7, 1994, Council resolution that ordered a $24.95 million
rate  reduction  based  on  NOPSI's overearnings  during  the  test  year  ended
September 30, 1993.  Accordingly, NOPSI recorded an $8 million net-of-tax charge
in the fourth quarter of 1994.

      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also required NOPSI to refund $9.3 million  of
overcollections associated with Grand Gulf 1 operating costs, and $10.5  million
of refunds associated with the settlement by System Energy of  a FERC tax audit.
The  settlement of the FERC tax audit by System Energy required  refunds  to  be
passed  on  to NOPSI and to other Entergy subsidiaries and then on to customers.
These refunds have no effect on current period net income.


NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES

     Income tax expense consisted of the following:



      Total  income  taxes  differ from the amounts  computed  by  applying  the
statutory federal income tax rate to income before taxes.  The reasons  for  the
differences were:



      Significant components of net deferred tax liabilities as of December  31,
1994 and 1993, were:


                                                    1994             1993 
    Deferred tax liabilities:                             (In Thousands)
     Net regulatory assets                         $(1,645,119)   $(1,676,161)
     Plant-related basis differences                (3,092,889)    (2,945,933)
     Rate deferrals                                   (617,699)      (767,124)
     Other                                            (181,743)      (167,478)
                                                   -----------    -----------
      Total                                        $(5,537,450)   $(5,556,696)
                                                   ===========    ===========
                                                                   
    Deferred tax assets:                                           
     Sale and leaseback                            $   247,842    $   241,391
     Accumulated deferred investment tax credit        227,473        330,852
     Alternative minimum tax credit                    137,387        138,063
     Removal cost                                       88,052         92,618
     Standard coal plant                                29,275         30,165
     NOL carryforwards                                 251,000        307,737
     Pension-related items                              30,040         24,879
     Unbilled revenues                                  25,328         23,587
     Provision for rate refunds                         37,838              -
     Investment tax credit carryforwards               190,987        314,862
     Other                                             316,777        149,568
                                                   -----------    -----------
      Total                                        $ 1,581,999    $ 1,653,722
                                                   ===========    ===========
            
                                                                   
      Net deferred tax liabilities                 $(3,955,451)   $(3,902,974)
                                                   ===========    ===========
 

      As  of  December  31, 1994, Entergy had federal net operating  loss  (NOL)
carryforwards  of $666.7 million and state NOL carryforwards of  $498.2  million
related  to  GSU  operations.   Investment tax credit  (ITC)  and  other  credit
carryforwards,  as of December 31, 1994, amounted to $282.6  million.   The  ITC
carryforwards include the 35% reduction required by the Tax Reform Act  of  1986
and  may be applied against federal income tax liabilities and, if not utilized,
will   expire  between  1995  and  2005.   It  is  currently  anticipated   that
approximately  $64.4 million will expire unutilized.  A valuation allowance  has
been  provided for deferred tax assets relating to that amount.  The alternative
minimum   tax  (AMT)  credit  carryforwards  as  of  December  31,  1994,   were
$137.4  million.  This AMT credit can be carried forward indefinitely  and  will
reduce the System's federal income tax liability in the future.

      In accordance with the System Energy FERC Settlement, the System wrote off
$66.5 million of unamortized deferred investment tax credits in 1994.

      In  1993,  the  System adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that  deferred
income  taxes  be recorded for all temporary differences and carryforwards,  and
that  deferred tax balances be based on enacted tax laws at tax rates  that  are
expected  to  be  in  effect when the temporary differences reverse.   SFAS  109
required  that  regulated  enterprises  recognize  adjustments  resulting   from
implementation as regulatory assets or liabilities if it is probable  that  such
amounts  will  be  recovered from or returned to customers in future  rates.   A
substantial  majority of the adjustments required by SFAS 109  was  recorded  to
deferred  tax  balance sheet accounts with offsetting adjustments to  regulatory
assets  and  liabilities.  As a result of the adoption of  SFAS  109,  1993  net
income  and  earnings per share were decreased by $13.2 million  and  $0.08  per
share, respectively, and assets and liabilities were increased by $822.7 million
and $835.9 million, respectively.  The cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS
109 is included in income tax expense charged to operations.

      In  August  1994,  Entergy  received an Internal  Revenue  Service  report
covering  the  federal income tax audit of Entergy Corporation and  subsidiaries
for the years 1988 - 1990.  The report asserts an $80 million tax deficiency for
the  1990  consolidated  federal income tax returns  related  primarily  to  the
application  of accelerated investment tax credits associated with  Waterford  3
and  Grand  Gulf  nuclear plants.  Entergy believes there  is  no  material  tax
deficiency and is vigorously contesting the proposed assessment.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

      The SEC has authorized AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy  to
effect  short-term borrowings up to an aggregate of $664 million, which  may  be
increased to as much as $1.216 billion (subject to individual authorizations for
each  company)  after further SEC approval.  These authorizations are  effective
through  November  30, 1996.  As of December 31, 1994, AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,
NOPSI,  and  System  Energy had total outstanding borrowings  of  $91.8  million
(including  $8 million under the Money Pool arrangement).  Short-term borrowings
by  MP&L  and NOPSI are also limited by the terms of their respective  G&R  Bond
indentures to amounts not exceeding the greater of 10% of capitalization or  50%
of Grand Gulf 1 rate deferrals available to support the issuance of G&R Bonds.

      As  of  December 31, 1994, GSU had unused lines of credit  for  short-term
borrowings  of  $5  million from banks within its service territories.   Entergy
Services has bank lines of credit permitting it to borrow up to $70 million,  of
which  $65  million  in  borrowings was outstanding as  of  December  31,  1994.
Interest  rates  associated with AP&L, Entergy Services, GSU, LP&L,  and  MP&L's
lines  of credit generally are based on the prime rate, the EURO dollar rate,  a
certificate of deposit rate, the London interbank offered rate, or a  bid  rate.
Commitment  fees on these lines of credit are 0.125% of the amount of  available
credit.   In  addition,  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  System  Energy,  Entergy
Operations,  Entergy Services, and System Fuels can borrow from each  other  and
from  Entergy  Corporation  through the Money Pool,  an  intra-System  borrowing
arrangement  designed to reduce the System's dependence on  external  short-term
borrowings.

     Entergy Corporation has requested, but not yet received, SEC approval for a
$300  million  three-year  bank  line of credit.   System  Fuels  has  financing
agreements  with banks permitting it to borrow up to $65 million, of  which  $23
million in borrowings was outstanding as of December 31, 1994.  Borrowings under
System Fuels' financing agreements are restricted as to use, and are secured  by
fuel  inventories  and  certain accounts receivable  from  the  sales  of  these
inventories.


NOTE 5.   PREFERRED, PREFERENCE, AND COMMON STOCK

      The  number of shares and dollar value of the System operating  companies'
preferred and preference stock were:

                                                                 

(1)   The total dollar value represents the involuntary liquidation value of $25
      per share.
(2)   These series are not redeemable as of December 31, 1994.

      The fair value of the System operating companies' preferred and preference
stock  with  sinking fund was estimated to be approximately $437.4  million  and
$526.2  million as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The fair values
were  determined  using  quoted  market  prices  or  estimates  from  nationally
recognized  investment banking firms.  See Note 1 for additional information  on
disclosure of fair value of financial instruments.

     Changes in the preferred stock of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI with and
without sinking fund during the last three years were (excluding GSU in 1992):

                                              Number of Shares
                                        1994       1993         1992
    Preferred Stock Issuances:                               
     $100 par value                        -           -       700,000
     $25 par value                         -           -     1,480,000
     $0.01 par value                       -           -       600,000
    Preferred Stock Retirements:                             
     $100 par value                 (270,667)   (265,000)     (589,940)
     $25 par value                  (881,537) (1,180,000)   (1,895,160)

      Cash sinking fund requirements for the next five years for preferred stock
outstanding  as of December 31, 1994, are (in millions): 1995 -  $38.8,  1996  -
$23.3, 1997 - $22.6, 1998 - $15.3, and 1999 - $64.8.

      On  December  31,  1993, Entergy Corporation issued 56,695,724  shares  of
common  stock  in connection with the Merger.  In addition, Entergy  Corporation
redeemed   174,552,011  shares  of  $5  par  value  common  stock  and  reissued
174,552,011  shares of $0.01 par value common stock resulting in an increase  in
paid-in capital of $871 million.

      Entergy  Corporation has a program to repurchase shares of its outstanding
common  stock.   The  timing and amount of such repurchases depend  upon  market
conditions and authorization from the Board of Directors of  Entergy Corporation
(Board).   Under  this  program,  Entergy Corporation  repurchased  and  retired
(returned to authorized but unissued status) 1,230,000 shares at a cost of $30.7
million  in 1994, and 3,671,900 shares at a cost of $161.6 million in 1992.   No
shares  were  repurchased  under the program in 1993.   In  addition,  2,805,000
shares,  627,000 shares, and 1,943 shares of treasury stock were  purchased  for
cash  during  1994,  1993, and 1992, respectively, at a cost of  $88.8  million,
$20.6  million, and $0.1 million, respectively. A portion of the treasury shares
purchased  in 1993 were subsequently reissued and in connection with the  Merger
on  December 31, 1993, all of the existing balance of 579,274 shares of treasury
shares  was canceled. On December 9, 1994, the Board approved the repurchase  of
common  shares for an aggregate consideration of not in excess of  $300  million
during the period through January 1996.

        Entergy  Corporation  has  SEC authorization to acquire up to  3,000,000
shares of its common stock to be held as treasury shares  and to be  reissued to
meet the requirements of the Stock Plan for Outside Directors (Directors' Plan),
the Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (Equity Plan),
and certain other stock benefit plans.  The Directors'  Plan  awards nonemployee
directors  a  portion of their compensation in the form of  a  fixed  number  of
shares of Entergy Corporation common stock.  Shares awarded under the Directors'
Plan  were  18,757, 12,550 and 14,904 during 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
The  Equity Plan grants stock options, restricted shares, and equity  awards  to
key  employees  of  the System companies.  The costs of awards  are  charged  to
income  over  the  period  of the grant or restricted  period,  as  appropriate.
Amounts charged to compensation expense in 1994 were immaterial.  Stock options,
which  comprise  50% of the shares targeted for distribution  under  the  Equity
Plan,  are granted at exercise prices not less than market value on the date  of
grant.   The options are generally exercisable no less than six months nor  more
than 10 years after the date of grant.

     Nonstatutory stock options transactions are summarized as follows:

                                                 Option         Number
                                                  Price       of Options

     Options granted during 1992                  29.625        50,000
     Options exercised during 1992                29.625        (5,000)
     Options granted during 1993:                 34.75         70,000
                                                  39.75*         6,107
     Options exercised during 1993:               29.625       (13,198)
                                                  34.75         (5,000)
     Options granted during 1994                  37.00         67,500
     Options exercised during 1994                    -              -
                                                               -------
     Options remaining as of December 31, 1994                 170,409
                                                               =======   
                                                                  

*    Options are not currently exercisable at December 31, 1994.

      Entergy Corporation received SEC authorization in 1994 to issue new shares
for  the Employee Stock Investment Plan (ESIP) or to acquire, through March  31,
1997,  up to 2,000,000 shares of its common stock to be held as treasury  shares
and  reissued  to meet the requirements of the ESIP.  Under the ESIP,  employees
may  be  granted  the opportunity to purchase, (for up to 10% of  their  regular
annual  salary, (but not more than $25,000)), common stock at 85% of the  market
value  on  the first or last business day of the plan year, whichever is  lower.
The 1994 plan year runs from April 1, 1994, to March 31, 1995.


NOTE 6.   LONG -TERM DEBT

       The   long-term  debt  of  Entergy  Corporation's  subsidiaries   as   of
December 31, 1994 and 1993, was:


                                                                       
*    $20  million of the 14.95% Series G&R Bonds and $9.2 million of  the  13.9%
     Series  G&R Bonds were due 2/1/95.  All other series are at interest  rates
     within the range of 5.95% - 11.2%.
**   Consists of pollution control bonds, certain series of which are secured by
     non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds.

      The  fair  value of Entergy Corporation's long-term debt, excluding  lease
obligations and long-term DOE obligations, as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, was
estimated  to  be  $6.293  billion and $7.207 billion, respectively.   The  fair
values  were  determined  using bid prices reported by  dealer  markets  and  by
nationally recognized investment banking firms.

      For  the  years  1995,  1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999, Entergy  Corporation's
subsidiaries  have long-term debt maturities (excluding lease  obligations)  and
cash sinking fund requirements aggregating (in millions) $349.1, $558.0, $361.3,
$314.9,  and $172.4, respectively.  In addition, other sinking fund requirements
will  be satisfied by cash or by certification of property additions at the rate
of  167% of such requirements.  The amounts associated with this provision total
approximately $20.9 million for each of the years 1995 through 1999.


NOTE 7.   DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

      Various  agreements relating to the long-term debt and preferred stock  of
Entergy  Corporation's subsidiaries restrict the payment of  cash  dividends  or
other  distributions on their common stock.  In addition to these  restrictions,
the Holding Company Act prohibits Entergy Corporation's subsidiaries from making
loans  or  advances  to Entergy Corporation.  As of December 31,  1994,  Entergy
Corporation's subsidiaries had restricted common equity of approximately  $4.495
billion,  including  $497 million of restricted retained  earnings,  which  were
unavailable for distribution to Entergy Corporation.  In February 1995,  Entergy
Corporation  received  common  stock dividend  payments  from  its  subsidiaries
totaling $96.8 million.


NOTE 8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Cajun - River Bend

      GSU  has  significant  business relationships with  Cajun,  including  co-
ownership of River Bend and Big Cajun 2, Unit 3.  GSU and Cajun own 70% and  30%
undivided  interests  in River Bend, respectively, and  42%  and  58%  undivided
interests in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, respectively.

      In  June 1989, Cajun filed a civil action against GSU in the United States
District  Court for the Middle District of Louisiana (District Court).   Cajun's
complaint  seeks  to  annul,  rescind,  terminate,  and/or  dissolve  the  Joint
Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement entered into on August 28,  1979
(Operating Agreement) relating to River Bend.  Cajun alleges fraud and error  by
GSU,  breach  of  its fiduciary duties owed to Cajun, and/or GSU's  repudiation,
renunciation,  abandonment,  or dissolution of its core  obligations  under  the
Operating   Agreement,  as  well  as  the  lack  or  failure  of  cause   and/or
consideration for Cajun's performance under the Operating Agreement.   The  suit
also  seeks  to recover Cajun's alleged $1.6 billion investment in the  unit  as
damages, plus attorneys' fees, interest, and costs.   Two member cooperatives of
Cajun  have  brought  an independent action to declare the  Operating  Agreement
void,  based  upon failure to get prior LPSC approval alleged to  be  necessary.
GSU believes the suits are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.

      A  trial  without jury on the portion of the suit by Cajun to rescind  the
Operating Agreement which began in April 1994 has been completed, and  an  order
from the District Court is pending.  No assurance can be given as to the outcome
of  this litigation.  If GSU were ultimately unsuccessful in this litigation and
were required to make substantial payments, GSU would probably be unable to make
such  payments  and would probably have to seek relief from its creditors  under
the  United  States Bankruptcy Code.  If GSU prevails in this litigation,  there
can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will allow funding of all required
costs of Cajun's ownership in River Bend.

      Since  1992 Cajun has not paid its full share of operating and maintenance
expenses  and  other  costs  for repairs and improvements  to  River  Bend.   In
addition,  certain  costs and expenses paid by Cajun were  paid  under  protest.
These  actions were taken by Cajun based on its contention, which GSU disagrees,
that River Bend's operating and maintenance expenses were excessive.

      In  a  letter  dated October 21, 1994, and at a subsequent meeting,  Cajun
representatives advised Entergy Corporation and GSU that, on October  25,  1994,
Cajun  would exhaust its 1994 budget for operating and maintenance expenses  for
River Bend, and did not make any further payments to GSU in 1994 for River  Bend
operating,  maintenance,  or capital costs.  Cajun also  advised  that  the  RUS
(which  provided  funding to Cajun for its investment in River Bend)  would  not
permit  Cajun  to  budget  funds  in 1995 to pay  its  share  of  operating  and
maintenance  expenses  or capital costs for River Bend.  However,  Cajun  stated
that  it  would continue to fund its share of the nuclear decommissioning  trust
payments for River Bend, as well as insurance and safety-related expenses.   The
unpaid  portion of Cajun's River Bend operating, maintenance, and capital  costs
for  1994  (which  has  been  fully reserved) was approximately  $22.4  million.
Cajun's total share of River Bend annual operating (including nuclear fuel)  and
maintenance expenses and capital costs was approximately $76.1 million in 1994.

      In  view  of Cajun's stated expectation that it will fund only  a  limited
portion  of its share of River Bend related operating, maintenance, and  capital
costs,  GSU notified Cajun that it would (i) credit GSU's share of expenses  for
Big  Cajun  2,  Unit 3 against amounts due from Cajun to GSU and  (ii)  seek  to
market Cajun's share of the power from River Bend and apply the proceeds to  the
amounts  due  from Cajun to GSU.  On November 2, 1994, Cajun discontinued  GSU's
entitlement  of  energy from Big Cajun 2, Unit 3.  In response, on  November  3,
1994, GSU filed pleadings in District Court seeking an order requiring Cajun  to
provide  GSU with the energy from Big Cajun 2, Unit 3 to which GSU is  entitled,
and holding that GSU is entitled to credit amounts due from GSU to Cajun for Big
Cajun  2,  Unit  3 against amounts due from Cajun to GSU with respect  to  River
Bend.  On December 19, 1994, the District Court issued an injunction prohibiting
Cajun  from denying its share of energy from Big Cajun 2, Unit 3 and stipulating
that GSU must make payments for its portion of expenses for Big Cajun 2, Unit  3
to the registry of the District Court.

      On December 14, 1994, the LPSC ordered Cajun to decrease the rates charged
to  its member distribution cooperatives by approximately $30 million per  year.
The  rate decrease is associated with the LPSC's prior finding of imprudence  in
Cajun's participation in River Bend.

      On  December  21,  1994,  Cajun  filed a petition  in  the  United  States
Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Louisiana seeking bankruptcy  relief
under  Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Cajun's bankruptcy could
have  a  material  adverse effect on GSU, including the possibility  of  an  NRC
action  with  respect to the operation of River Bend.  However,  GSU  is  taking
appropriate steps to protect its interests and its claims against Cajun  arising
from  the  co-ownership in River Bend and Big Cajun 2, Unit 3.  On December  31,
1994, the District Court issued an order lifting an automatic stay as to certain
proceedings,  with  the result that the preliminary injunction  granted  by  the
Court  on December 19, 1994, remains in effect.  Cajun filed a Notice of  Appeal
on January 18, 1995, to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
seeking  a reversal of the District Court's grant of the preliminary injunction.
No hearing date has been set on Cajun's appeal.

     In the bankruptcy proceedings, Cajun filed on January 10, 1995, a motion to
reject  the  River Bend Operating Agreement as a burdensome executory  contract.
GSU  responded  on January 10, 1995, with a memorandum opposing  Cajun's  motion
filed with the District Court.  This memorandum argues that the motion should be
denied because (1) the Operating Agreement is not an executory contract that can
be   rejected  under  the  United  States  Bankruptcy  Code,  but  an  agreement
establishing property rights and obligations; (2) Cajun legally cannot have  its
payment obligations under the Operating Agreement suspended while retaining  the
benefits  from  co-ownership in River Bend, as the benefits and obligations  are
indivisible; (3) Cajun cannot seek to dispose of its property interest in  River
Bend or reject the Operating Agreement with respect thereto without disposing of
all  of  its property interests and rejecting all of the arrangements under  the
River  Bend  package  of agreements consisting of the Operating  Agreement,  Big
Cajun  2, Unit 3 facility, certain transmission lines and the buy-back agreement
pursuant  to  when  GSU  paid Cajun approximately $600 million  for  River  Bend
capacity and energy during the early years of operation of River Bend; and (4) a
legal  determination of Cajun's obligations and interests in River  Bend  should
only  be  made  as  part  of a plan of reorganization  in  bankruptcy  and  such
determination should be subject to regulatory approvals by certain agencies with
jurisdiction over Cajun, including the NRC.  If the court were to grant  Cajun's
motion  to  reject  the  Operating Agreement, Cajun would  be  relieved  of  its
financial  obligations  under  the contract,  while  GSU  would  likely  have  a
substantial damage claim arising from any such rejection.  Although GSU believes
that Cajun's motion to reject the Operating Agreement is non-meritorious, it  is
not possible to predict the outcome or ultimate impact of these proceedings.

      During  the  period in which Cajun is not paying its share of  River  Bend
costs,  GSU  intends  to  fund  all costs necessary  for  the  safe,  continuing
operation  of  the  unit.   The responsibilities of Entergy  Operations  as  the
licensed  operator of River Bend, for safely operating and maintaining the  unit
are not affected by Cajun's actions.

      The  total resulting from Cajun's failure to fund repair projects, Cajun's
funding  limitation on refueling outages, and the weekly funding  limitation  by
Cajun was $55.6 million as of December 31, 1994, compared with $33.3 million  as
of December 31, 1993.  These amounts are reflected in long-term receivables with
an  offsetting reserve in other deferred credits.  Cajun's bankruptcy may affect
the  ultimate collectibility of the amounts owed to GSU, including  any  amounts
that may be awarded in litigation.

      In  September 1994, in connection with Entergy Corporation's  analysis  of
certain   preacquisition  contingencies,  Entergy  Corporation   increased   its
acquisition  adjustment and GSU recorded a loss provision  associated  with  the
River  Bend litigation between GSU and Cajun and certain underpayments by  Cajun
of River Bend costs, in accordance with SFAS  5, "Accounting for Contingencies."
See  Note  12  for  additional  information  on  provisions  for  preacquisition
contingencies recorded during 1994.

Cajun - Transmission Service

      GSU  and  Cajun  are parties to FERC proceedings relating to  transmission
service  charge  disputes.  In April 1992, FERC issued a final  order.   In  May
1992, GSU and Cajun filed motions for rehearings which are pending at FERC.   In
June 1992, GSU filed a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals
regarding  certain of the issues decided by FERC.  In August  1993,  the  United
States  Court of Appeals rendered an opinion reversing the FERC order  regarding
the portion of such disputes relating to the calculations of certain credits and
equalization  charges  under GSU's service schedules with  Cajun.   The  opinion
remanded the issues to FERC for further proceedings consistent with its opinion.
In  December  1994, FERC held a hearing to address the issues  remanded  by  the
Court  of  Appeals.  In February 1995, FERC clarified its order, eliminating  an
issue that GSU believes the Court of Appeals directed FERC to reconsider.

      GSU interprets the 1992 FERC order and the United States Court of Appeals'
decision  to  mean that Cajun would owe GSU approximately $93.3  million  as  of
December  31,  1994.  However, FERC's February 1995, order indicates  that  FERC
believes an issue, estimated by GSU to constitute approximately $26.2 million of
this  amount, may not be pursued by GSU in the remand proceedings.  GSU  further
estimates that if it prevails in its May 1992 motion for rehearing, Cajun  would
owe GSU approximately $129.6 million as of December 31, 1994.  If Cajun were  to
prevail  in  its May 1992 motion for rehearing to FERC, and if GSU were  not  to
prevail  in  its  May 1992 motion for rehearing to FERC, and if  FERC  does  not
implement the court's remand as GSU contends is required, GSU estimates it would
owe  Cajun  approximately  $85.6 million as of December  31,  1994.   The  above
amounts  are exclusive of a $7.3 million payment by Cajun on December 31,  1990,
which  the parties agreed to apply to the disputed transmission service charges.
GSU  and  Cajun  further  agreed  that their  positions  at  FERC  would  remain
unaffected by the $7.3 million payment.  Pending FERC's ruling on the  May  1992
motions  for rehearing, GSU has continued to bill Cajun utilizing the historical
billing  methodology  and has booked underpaid transmission  charges,  including
interest, in the amount of $160.2 million as of December 31, 1994.  This  amount
is  reflected  in  long-term  receivables with an offsetting  reserve  in  other
deferred credits.

Capital Requirements and Financing

      Construction  expenditures (excluding nuclear fuel) for  the  years  1995,
1996,  and  1997  are  estimated  to  total  $568  million,  $568  million,  and
$565  million,  respectively.  The System will also require $1.4 billion  during
the  period 1995-1997 to meet long-term debt and preferred stock maturities  and
cash sinking fund requirements.  The System plans to meet the above requirements
primarily with internally generated funds and cash on hand, supplemented by  the
issuance  of  debt  and  preferred stock.  Certain  System  companies  may  also
continue  with  the  acquisition or refinancing of all or a portion  of  certain
outstanding series of preferred stock and long-term debt.

Capital Funds and Availability Agreements

      Entergy  Corporation  has  agreed to supply to  System  Energy  sufficient
capital to (1) maintain System Energy's equity capital at an amount equal  to  a
minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt), and  (2)
permit  the continuation of commercial operation of Grand Gulf 1 and to  pay  in
full  all  indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due  under  any
circumstances.   In addition, under supplements to the Capital  Funds  Agreement
assigning System Energy's rights as security for specific debt of System Energy,
Entergy  Corporation  has  agreed to make cash capital contributions  to  enable
System Energy to make payments on such debt when due.

      System  Energy has entered into various agreements with AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI, whereby AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are obligated to purchase  their
respective  entitlements  of  capacity  and  energy  from  System  Energy's  90%
ownership  and  leasehold interest in Grand Gulf 1, and to make  payments  that,
together  with  other  available funds, are adequate to  cover  System  Energy's
operating  expenses.   System  Energy would have  to  secure  funds  from  other
sources,  including Entergy Corporation's obligations under  the  Capital  Funds
Agreement, to cover any shortfalls from payments received from AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,
and NOPSI under these agreements.

Long-Term Contracts

      The  System  has several long-term contracts to purchase natural  gas  and
low-sulfur coal for use at its generating units. LP&L has a long-term  agreement
through  the year 2031 to purchase energy generated by a hydroelectric facility.
If the maximum percentage (94%) of the energy is made available to LP&L, current
production   projections  would  require  estimated  payments  of  approximately
$47  million  per year through 1996, $54 million in 1997, and a  total  of  $3.5
billion  for  the years 1998 through 2031.  LP&L recovers the cost of  purchased
energy through its fuel adjustment clause.

      In  1988, GSU entered into a joint venture with a primary term of 20 years
with  Conoco,  Inc.,  Citgo Petroleum Corporation, and  Vista  Chemical  Company
(Industrial  Participants) whereby GSU's Nelson Units 1 and 2  were  sold  to  a
partnership  (NISCO)  consisting of the Industrial Participants  and  GSU.   The
Industrial Participants are supplying the fuel for the units, while GSU operates
the  units  at  the discretion of the Industrial Participants and purchases  the
electricity produced by the units.  GSU is continuing to sell electricity to the
Industrial Participants.  For the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
the  purchases  of  electricity from the joint venture totaled  $58.3   million,
$62.6 million, and $37.8 million, respectively.

Nuclear Insurance

      The  Price-Anderson  Act  limits public liability  for  a  single  nuclear
incident to approximately $8.92 billion as of December 31, 1994.  The System has
protection  for  this  liability  through a  combination  of  private  insurance
(currently  $200  million each) and an industry assessment program.   Under  the
assessment program, the maximum amount the System would be required to  pay  for
each  nuclear incident would be $79.3 million per reactor, payable at a rate  of
$10  million  per licensed reactor per incident per year.  As a  co-licensee  of
Grand  Gulf  1 with System Energy, South Mississippi Electric Power  Association
(SMEPA)  would  share 10% of this obligation. With respect to  River  Bend,  any
assessments  pertaining  to this program are allocated in  accordance  with  the
respective  ownership interests of GSU and Cajun.  The System has five  licensed
reactors.   In addition, the System participates in a private insurance  program
which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by
radiation   exposure.   The  program  provides  for  a  maximum  assessment   of
approximately  $16  million for the System's five nuclear  units  in  the  event
losses exceed accumulated reserve funds.

     AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L, and System Energy are also members of certain  insurance
programs  that  provide coverage for property damage, including  decontamination
and  premature  decommissioning expense, to members' nuclear generating  plants.
As  of  December 31, 1994, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System Energy each were  insured
against  such  losses  up  to $2.75 billion, with $250 million  of  this  amount
designated  to  cover  any shortfall in the NRC required  decommissioning  trust
funding.   In  addition,  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  are  members  of  an
insurance   program   that  covers  certain  replacement  power   and   business
interruption  costs incurred due to prolonged nuclear unit outages.   Under  the
property  damage and replacement power/business interruption insurance programs,
these  System  companies could be subject to assessments if  losses  exceed  the
accumulated  funds  available to the insurers.  As of  December  31,  1994,  the
maximum amounts of such possible assessments were: AP&L - $37.2 million;  GSU  -
$22.6  million; LP&L - $34.7 million; MP&L - $0.9 million; NOPSI - $0.5 million;
and  System  Energy  - $29.7 million.  Under its agreement with  System  Energy,
SMEPA  would  share  in System Energy's obligation.  Cajun shares  approximately
$4.4 million of GSU's obligation.

      The  amount of property insurance presently carried by the System  exceeds
the NRC's minimum requirement for nuclear power plant licensees of $1.06 billion
per  site.  NRC regulations provide that the proceeds of this insurance must  be
used,  first,  to place and maintain the reactor in a safe and stable  condition
and,  second,  to complete decontamination operations.  Only after proceeds  are
dedicated  for such use and regulatory approval is secured, would any  remaining
proceeds be made available for the benefit of plant owners or their creditors.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

      AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, and System Energy provide for estimated future  disposal
costs for spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act  of
1982.   The affected System companies entered into contracts with the Department
of  Energy (DOE), whereby the DOE will furnish disposal service at a cost of one
mill per net KWH generated and sold after April 7, 1983, plus a one-time fee for
generation  prior  to that date.  AP&L, the only System company  that  generated
electricity  with nuclear fuel prior to that date, elected to pay  the  one-time
fee,  plus  accrued interest, no earlier than 1998, and has recorded a liability
as of December 31, 1994, of approximately $105 million.  The fees payable to the
DOE may be adjusted in the future to assure full recovery.  The System considers
all  costs incurred or to be incurred, except accrued interest, for the disposal
of  spent  nuclear  fuel to be proper components of nuclear  fuel  expense,  and
provisions  to  recover such costs have been or will be made in applications  to
regulatory authorities.

      Delays  have occurred in the DOE's program for the acceptance and disposal
of  spent  nuclear  fuel  at a permanent repository.  In  a  statement  released
February 17, 1993, the DOE asserted that it does not have a legal obligation  to
accept spent nuclear fuel without an operational repository for which it has not
yet arranged.  Currently the DOE projects it will begin to accept spent fuel  no
earlier  than  2010.  In the meantime, all System companies are responsible  for
spent  fuel storage.  Current on-site spent fuel storage capacity at River Bend,
Waterford  3, and Grand Gulf 1 is estimated to be sufficient until  2003,  2000,
and  2004,  respectively.   Thereafter,  the  affected  companies  will  provide
additional  storage.   Current on-site spent fuel storage  capacity  at  ANO  is
estimated to be sufficient until mid-1995, at which time an ANO storage facility
using  dry  casks will begin operation.  This facility is estimated  to  provide
sufficient storage until 2000, with the capability of being expanded further  as
required.   The  initial  cost of providing the additional  on-site  spent  fuel
storage capability required at ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf 1 is
expected  to be approximately $5 million to $10 million per unit.  In  addition,
approximately $3 million to $5 million per unit will be required  every  two  to
three  years subsequent to 1995 for ANO and every four to five years  subsequent
to  2003,  2000,  and  2004  for River Bend, Waterford  3,  and  Grand  Gulf  1,
respectively,  until  the DOE's repository begins accepting  such  units'  spent
fuel.

      Entergy  Operations and System Fuels joined in lawsuits against  the  DOE,
seeking clarification of the DOE's responsibility to receive spent nuclear  fuel
beginning in 1998.  The original suits, filed June 20, 1994, asked for a  ruling
stating that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act require the DOE to begin taking  title
to the spent fuel and to start removing it from nuclear power plants in 1998,  a
mandate  for the DOE's nuclear waste management program to begin accepting  fuel
in  1998  and court monitoring of the program, and the potential for  escrow  of
payments to a nuclear waste fund instead of directly to the DOE.

      Decommissioning costs for ANO, River Bend (excluding Cajun's  30%  share),
Waterford  3,  and Grand Gulf 1 (excluding Southern Mississippi  Electric  Power
Association's  10%  share)  were estimated to be  approximately  $806.3  million
(based  on a 1994 interim update to the 1992 cost study), $267.8 million  (based
on  a  1991 cost study reflecting 1990 dollars), $320.1 million (based on a 1994
updated  study in 1993 dollars), and $365.9 million (based on a 1994 cost  study
using  1993 dollars), respectively.  AP&L is authorized to recover through rates
amounts that, when added to estimated investment income, should be sufficient to
meet  the  above  estimated decommissioning costs for  ANO.   GSU  is  currently
recovering in rates decommissioning costs based on the 1985 original cost  study
of  $141  million.   GSU  filed a 1991 study with the  PUCT  requesting  a  rate
adjustment  for decommissioning expense.  As discussed in Note 2, on  March  20,
1995, the PUCT ruled in the current rate case.  The PUCT order included recovery
of  River  Bend  decommissioning costs totaling $204.9 million.   GSU  plans  to
include  the  1991  study in its next LPSC rate review scheduled  for  mid-1995.
LP&L  currently  is recovering in rates decommissioning costs based  on  a  1988
study  update  reflecting a cost of $203 million.  LP&L filed with  the  LPSC  a
request for a rate adjustment  for decommissioning expense based on a 1994  cost
study  update  and  the  matter is under review.   System  Energy  is  currently
recovering in rates amounts sufficient to fund $198 million (in 1989 dollars) of
its   decommissioning  costs.   A  filing  with  FERC  to  request  the  updated
decommissioning costs in rates is under consideration by System  Energy.   AP&L,
GSU,   LP&L,   and   System  Energy  regularly  review  and   update   estimated
decommissioning  costs,  and  applications  will  be  made  to  the  appropriate
regulatory  authorities  to  reflect in rates any  future  change  in  projected
decommissioning costs.  The amounts recovered in rates are deposited in external
trust  funds  and  reported  at  market value.  The accumulated  decommissioning
liability has been recorded in accumulated depreciation for AP&L, GSU, and LP&L,
and  in  other  deferred  credits for System Energy, in the  amounts  of  $137.4
million,  $22.2 million, $28.2 million, and $31.9 million, respectively,  as  of
December  31,  1994.   Decommissioning expense amounting to  $25.1  million  was
recorded  in 1994.  The actual decommissioning costs may vary from the estimates
because  of regulatory requirements, changes in technology, and increased  costs
of   labor,   materials,  and  equipment.   Management  believes   that   actual
decommissioning costs are likely to be higher than the amounts presented above.

      The  staff  of  the  SEC has questioned certain of the current  accounting
practices   of   the  electric  utility  industry,  regarding  the  recognition,
measurement, and classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear  generating
stations  in  the financial statements of electric utilities.   In  response  to
these   questions,   the  FASB  is  currently  reviewing  the   accounting   for
decommissioning.  If current electric utility industry accounting practices  for
such  decommissioning  are changed, annual provisions for decommissioning  could
increase,  the  estimated  cost  for decommissioning  could  be  recorded  as  a
liability  rather than as accumulated depreciation, and trust fund  income  from
the  external  decommissioning  trusts could be reported  as  investment  income
rather than as a reduction to decommissioning expense.

      The  EPAct  has a provision that assesses domestic nuclear utilities  with
fees  for  the  decontamination and decommissioning of the  DOE's  past  uranium
enrichment operations.  The decontamination and decommissioning assessments will
be used to set up a fund into which contributions from utilities and the federal
government  will  be placed.  AP&L's, GSU's, LP&L's, and System Energy's  annual
assessments,  which will be adjusted annually for inflation,  are  approximately
$3.4  million,  $0.9 million, $1.3 million, and $1.4 million (in 1995  dollars),
respectively,  for approximately 15 years.  FERC requires that  utilities  treat
these  assessments  as  costs  of fuel as they are  amortized.   The  cumulative
liability of $75.9 million as of December 31, 1994, is recorded in other current
liabilities  and other noncurrent liabilities and is offset in the  consolidated
financial statements by a regulatory asset.

ANO Matters

      ANO  2  experienced a forced outage for repair of certain steam  generator
tubes  in  March  1992.   Further  inspections and  repairs  were  conducted  at
subsequent  refueling and mid-cycle outages in September 1992, May 1993,   April
1994,  and January 1995.  AP&L's budgeted maintenance expenditures were adequate
to cover the cost of such repairs.  ANO 2's output has been reduced 15 megawatts
or  1.6%  due to secondary side fouling, tube plugging, and reduction of primary
temperature.  Entergy Operations continues to take steps at ANO 2 to reduce  the
number  and  severity  of future tube cracks.  In addition,  Entergy  Operations
continues  to meet with the NRC to discuss such steps and results of inspections
of  the  steam  generator  tubes, as well as the timing of  future  inspections.
Additional inspections are planned for the normal refueling outage scheduled for
October 1995.

Sales/Use Tax Issues

      In  September 1994, the Louisiana Supreme Court (Court) issued an  opinion
(in  a case in which none of the System companies was a party) holding, in part,
that  the  Louisiana state legislature's suspension of state sales and  use  tax
exemptions also had the effect of suspending exemptions from local sales and use
taxes.   On  January 27, 1995 the Court, after rehearing, reversed its  opinion.
Because  of the Court's most recent ruling, sales of electricity and gas,  fuels
and  other  items  used  by  GSU, LP&L, and NOPSI  to  generate  electricity  in
Louisiana,  as well as other items exempt from sales and use taxes, continue  to
be  exempt from local sales and use taxes, even though the state exemptions  for
sales and use tax have been suspended.


NOTE 9.   LEASES

General

      As  of  December 31, 1994, the System had capital leases and noncancelable
operating  leases  (excluding nuclear fuel leases and  the  sale  and  leaseback
transactions discussed below) with minimum lease payments as follows:

                                                    Capital     Operating
     Year                                            Leases       Leases
                                                        (In Thousands)

     1995                                           $ 33,008     $65,429
     1996                                             29,054      57,133
     1997                                             24,653      48,861
     1998                                             24,634      47,446
     1999                                             24,610      43,128
     Years thereafter                                136,294     246,303
                                                   ---------    --------
     Minimum lease payments                          272,253    $508,300
                                                                ========
     Less: Amount representing interest              103,596     
                                                    --------
     Present value of net minimum lease payments    $168,657     
                                                    ========

      Rental  expense for capital and operating leases (excluding  nuclear  fuel
leases and the sale and leaseback transactions) amounted to approximately  $64.8
million, $62.7 million, and $75.5 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Nuclear Fuel Leases

      AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System Energy have arrangements to lease nuclear fuel
in  an aggregate amount up to $430 million as of December 31, 1994.  The lessors
finance  their  acquisitions of nuclear fuel through credit agreements  and  the
issuance  of notes.  If a lessor cannot arrange financing upon maturity  of  its
borrowings,  the  lessee must purchase nuclear fuel in an amount  sufficient  to
enable the lessor to retire such borrowings.

      Lease  payments are based on nuclear fuel use.  Nuclear fuel lease expense
for AP&L, GSU, LP&L, and System Energy of $163.4 million (including interest  of
$27.3  million) was charged to operations in 1994.  Excluding GSU, nuclear  fuel
expense  of  $145.8  million and $158.4 million  (including  interest  of  $20.5
million and  $25.6  million)  was  charged to  operations  in  1993  and   1992,
respectively.

Sale and Leaseback Transactions

      In  1988  and 1989, System Energy and LP&L, respectively, sold and  leased
back portions of their ownership interests in Grand Gulf 1 and Waterford 3,  for
26  1/2-year and 28-year lease terms, respectively. Both companies have  options
to  terminate  the leases, to repurchase the sold interests,  or  to  renew  the
leases at the end of their terms.

      Under  System Energy's sale and leaseback arrangements, letters of  credit
are required to be maintained to secure certain amounts payable, for the benefit
of  equity investors, by System Energy under the leases.  The letters of  credit
currently maintained are effective until January 1997.  It is expected that  the
letters  of  credit  will  either be renewed, extended,  or  replaced  prior  to
expiration.  On January 18, 1994, System Energy refinanced the debt  portion  of
the sale and leaseback arrangements.  The new secured lease obligation bonds  of
$356 million, 7.43% series due 2011, and $79 million, 8.2% series due 2014, will
be indirectly secured by liens on, and a security interest in, certain ownership
interests and the respective leases relating to Grand Gulf 1.

      LP&L did not exercise its option to repurchase the undivided interests  in
Waterford 3 on the fifth anniversary (September 1994) of the closing date of the
sale  and  leaseback  transactions.  As a result, LP&L was required  to  provide
collateral  to the Owner Participants for the equity portion of certain  amounts
payable  by  LP&L under the lease.  Such collateral was in the  form  of  a  new
series  of  non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds in the aggregate principal
amount  of  $208.2  million issued by LP&L in September  1994  under  its  first
mortgage bond indenture.

      As  of December 31, 1994, System Energy and LP&L had future minimum  lease
payments  (reflecting  implicit rates of 7.02% after the above  refinancing  and
8.76%, respectively) as follows:

                                     System
                                     Energy        LP&L
                                       (In Thousands)

     1995                           $   42,464   $ 32,569
     1996                               42,753     35,165
     1997                               42,753     39,805
     1998                               42,753     41,447
     1999                               42,753     50,530
     Years thereafter                  802,820    676,214
                                    ----------   --------
     Total                          $1,016,296   $875,730
                                    ==========   ========


NOTE 10.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plans

      The  System  companies have various postretirement benefit plans  covering
substantially all of their employees.  The pension plans are noncontributory and
provide  pension  benefits  that are based on employees'  credited  service  and
compensation during the final years before retirement.  Entergy Corporation  and
its  subsidiaries fund pension costs in accordance with contribution  guidelines
established by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as  amended,
and  the  Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The assets  of  the  plans
include  common  and preferred stocks, fixed income securities,  interest  in  a
money market fund, and insurance contracts.

      Total  1994,  1993, and 1992 pension cost of Entergy Corporation  and  its
subsidiaries  (excluding GSU for 1993 and 1992), including amounts  capitalized,
included the following components:



      The  funded  status of Entergy's various pension plans as of December  31,
1994 and 1993  was:



      The  pension liability for 1993 has been restated in order to  make  GSU's
presentation  of certain Early Retirement Plan liabilities consistent  with  the
other System companies.  The significant actuarial assumptions used in computing
the  information above for 1994, 1993, and 1992 (only 1994 and 1993 with respect
to GSU's plan), were as follows:  weighted average discount rate, 8.5% for 1994,
7.5%  for 1993, and 8.25% for 1992; weighted average rate of increase in  future
compensation levels, 5.1% for 1994 and 5.6% (5% for GSU) for 1993 and 1992;  and
expected  long-term rate of return on plan assets, 8.5% .  Transition assets  of
the  System are being amortized over the greater of the remaining service period
of active participants or 15 years.

Other Postretirement Benefits

      The  System companies also provide certain health care and life  insurance
benefits for retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become eligible
for  these  benefits if they reach retirement age while still  working  for  the
System  companies.   The cost of providing these benefits, recorded  on  a  cash
basis, to retirees in 1992 (excluding GSU) was approximately $13 million.

      Effective  January 1, 1993, Entergy adopted SFAS 106.   The  new  standard
requires  a  change  from a cash method to an accrual method of  accounting  for
postretirement  benefits other than pensions.  The System  operating  companies,
other  than  MP&L and NOPSI,  continue to fund these benefits on a pay-as-you-go
basis.  During 1994, pursuant to regulatory directives, MP&L and NOSPI began  to
fund  their  postretirement  benefit  obligation.   At  January  1,  1993,   the
actuarially  determined  accumulated postretirement  benefit  obligation  (APBO)
earned  by  retirees  and  active employees was estimated  to  be  approximately
$241.4  million  and  $128 million for Entergy (other than  GSU)  and  for  GSU,
respectively.   Such  obligations  are being amortized  over  a  20-year  period
beginning in 1993.

      The  System operating companies have sought approval, in their  respective
regulatory  jurisdictions, to implement the appropriate accounting  requirements
related  to  SFAS  106  for ratemaking purposes.  AP&L  has  received  an  order
permitting  deferral, as a regulatory asset, of these costs.  MP&L is  expensing
its  SFAS 106 costs, which are reflected in rates pursuant to an order from  the
MPSC in connection with MP&L's formulary incentive rate plan (see Note 2).   The
LPSC  ordered  GSU  and  LP&L  to use the pay-as-you-go  method  for  ratemaking
purposes  for postretirement benefits other than pensions, but the LPSC  retains
the  flexibility to examine individual companies' accounting for  postretirement
benefits to determine if special exceptions to this order are warranted.   NOPSI
is  expensing its SFAS 106 costs.  Pursuant to resolutions adopted  in  November
1993  by  the  Council related to the Merger, NOPSI's SFAS 106 expenses  through
October 31, 1996, will be allowed by the Council for purposes of evaluating  the
appropriateness  of NOPSI's rates.  Pursuant to a ruling by the PUCT  applicable
to  all Texas utilities, including GSU, amounts recorded in compliance with SFAS
106  and included in a rate filing test period, will be recoverable in rates (at
the  time  of  the next general rate case), and postretirement benefits  amounts
allowed in rates must then be funded by the utility.

      Total 1994 and 1993 postretirement benefit cost of Entergy Corporation and
its  subsidiaries  (excluding GSU for 1993), including amounts  capitalized  and
deferred, included the following components:

                                                        1994        1993
                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                                   
     Service cost - benefits earned during the period   $11,863    $7,751
     Interest cost on APBO                               23,312    19,394
     Return on plan assets                                    -       (71)
     Net amortization and deferral                        9,891    12,071
                                                        -------   -------
     Net periodic postretirement benefit cost           $45,066   $39,145
                                                        =======   =======

     The funded status of Entergy's postretirement plans as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, was:

                                                        1994          1993
                                                           (In Thousands)
     Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:                  
       Retirees                                        $ 186,570     $ 221,562
       Other fully eligible participants                  58,330        68,283
       Other active participants                          52,324        95,854
                                                       ---------     ---------
                                                         297,224       385,699
     Plan assets at fair value                             9,733           354
                                                       ---------     ---------  
     Plan assets less than APBO                         (287,491)     (385,345)
     Unrecognized transition obligation                  217,275       229,346
     Unrecognized net loss (gain)                        (58,178)       28,529
                                                       ---------     ---------
     Accrued postretirement benefit liability          $(128,394)    $(127,470)
                                                       =========     =========

      The assumed health care cost trend rate used in measuring the APBO of  the
System  companies was 9.4% for 1995, gradually decreasing each  successive  year
until  it reaches 5.0% in 2011.  A one percentage-point increase in the  assumed
health  care cost trend rate for each year would have increased the APBO of  the
System  companies,  as of December 31, 1994, by 8.9%, and the sum of the service
cost  and interest cost by approximately 11.3% .  The assumed discount rate  and
rate  of increase in future compensation used in determining the APBO were  8.5%
for  1994  and 7.5% for 1993 and 5.1% for 1994 and 5.5% (5% for GSU)  for  1993,
respectively.


NOTE 11.   RESTRUCTURING COSTS

     During the third quarter of 1994, Entergy announced a restructuring program
related  to certain of its operating units.  The program is designed  to  reduce
costs,  improve operating efficiencies, and increase shareholder value in  order
to  enable  Entergy  to  become  a  low-cost  producer.   The  program  includes
reductions  in  the  number of employees and the consolidation  of  offices  and
facilities.   In  1994, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI recorded  restructuring
charges  of  $12.5 million, $6.5 million, $6.8 million, $6.2 million,  and  $3.4
million, respectively.  These charges primarily include employee severance costs
related  to  the expected termination of approximately 1,850 employees.   As  of
December  31,  1994, 35 AP&L employees were terminated under the  program  at  a
severance cost of approximately $0.3 million.


NOTE 12.   ENTERGY CORPORATION-GSU MERGER

     On December 31, 1993, Entergy Corporation and GSU consummated their Merger.
GSU  became  a  wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation and continues  to
operate  as a corporation under the regulation of FERC, the PUCT, and the  LPSC.
As  consideration to GSU's shareholders, Entergy Corporation paid  $250  million
and issued 56,695,724 shares of its common stock in exchange for the 114,055,065
outstanding  shares  of  GSU  common  stock.   In  addition,  $33.5  million  of
transaction costs were capitalized in connection with the Merger.

     As a result of the December 31, 1993, Merger closing, GSU recorded expenses
totaling $49 million, net of related tax effects, for early retirement and other
severance  related  plans and the payment to financial consultants  involved  in
Merger  negotiations on behalf of GSU.  Additionally, GSU recorded $23.8 million
in 1994 for remaining severance and augmented retirement benefits related to the
Merger.  See Note 2 for information regarding Merger-related rate agreements.

      In 1993, Entergy Corporation recorded an acquisition adjustment in utility
plant  in  the  amount of $380 million representing the excess of  the  purchase
price  over the net assets acquired of GSU.  The acquisition adjustment will  be
amortized on a straight-line basis over a 31-year period, which approximates the
remaining average book life of GSU's plant.  During the allocation period (which
expired  on December 31, 1994), Entergy Corporation completed its analyses  with
respect  to  preacquisition  contingencies and revised  the  allocation  of  the
purchase price for a number of preacquisition contingencies.  In 1994, GSU wrote
off  assets or recorded liabilities totaling approximately $137 million  net  of
tax  for  the  Cajun-River  Bend litigation, unfunded  Cajun-River  Bend  costs,
environmental  cleanup costs, obsolete spare parts, Louisiana  River  Bend  rate
deferrals  previously disallowed by the LPSC, plant held for future use,  and  a
PUCT  fuel reconciliation settlement.  Any items recorded in 1995 or later  will
result  in  write-offs and/or losses charged to operations  on  GSU's  financial
statements and Entergy Corporation's consolidated financial statements.

      In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the 12-month results
of operations for Entergy Corporation reported in its Statements of Consolidated
Income,  Cash  Flows,  and  Retained Earnings do not reflect  GSU's  results  of
operations  for any period prior to January 1, 1994, as a result of the  Merger.
The  pro  forma combined revenues, net income, earnings per common share  before
extraordinary items, cumulative effect of accounting changes, and  earnings  per
common share of Entergy Corporation presented below give effect to the Merger as
if  it had occurred at January 1, 1992.  This unaudited pro forma information is
not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred
had  the  Merger  been consummated for the period for which it  is  being  given
effect, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results.

                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                     1993        1992
                                        (In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)

     Revenues                                     $6,286,999   $5,850,973
     Net income                                   $  595,211    $ 521,783
     Earnings per average common share                       
      before extraordinary items and                         
      cumulative effect of accounting changes     $     2.10    $    2.26
     Earnings per average common share            $     2.57    $    2.24

NOTE 13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

      The  business of the System is subject to seasonal fluctuations  with  the
peak  period occurring during the third quarter.  Consolidated operating results
for the four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                                                          Net      Earnings
                                 Operating  Operating    Income     (Loss)
                                  Revenue    Income      (Loss)    per Share
                                  (In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)
      1994:                                                                   
        First Quarter           $1,406,039   $253,870    $ 70,735    $ 0.31
        Second Quarter          $1,586,298   $325,935    $144,337    $ 0.63
        Third Quarter           $1,805,524   $336,611    $143,198    $ 0.63
        Fourth Quarter          $1,165,429   $152,325    $(16,429)   $(0.07)
      1993:                                                          
        First Quarter           $  926,412   $192,743    $151,154    $ 0.86
        Second Quarter          $1,070,102   $260,574    $130,860    $ 0.75
        Third Quarter           $1,410,951   $359,938    $233,430    $ 1.34
        Fourth Quarter          $1,077,872   $180,086    $ 36,486    $ 0.21

     See Note 1 for information regarding the recording of the cumulative effect
     of  the  change  in accounting principle for unbilled revenues  in  January
     1993.



                      ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                        
                 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON



(1)  Includes long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt), preferred  and
     preference   stock  with  sinking  fund,  and  noncurrent   capital   lease
     obligations.

(2)  1993  amounts  include  the effects of the Merger in  accordance  with  the
     purchase method of accounting for combinations (see Note 11).



(1)  1994 includes the effects of the FERC Settlement, the 1994 NOPSI 
     Settlement, and a GSU reserve for rate refund.



















                    Arkansas Power & Light Company
                                   
                                   
                       1994 Financial Statements
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              DEFINITIONS


      Certain  abbreviations  or acronyms  used  in  AP&L's  Financial
Statements, Notes to Financial Statements, and Management's  Financial
Discussion and Analysis are defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym            Term

AFUDC                    Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

ANO                      Arkansas    Nuclear   One   Steam    Electric
                         Generating Station

ANO 2                    Unit No. 2 of ANO

AP&L                     Arkansas Power & Light Company

APSC                     Arkansas Public Service Commission

DOE                      United States Department of Energy

Entergy or System        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Operations       Entergy  Operations, Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of
                         Entergy   Corporation  that   has   operating
                         responsibility for Grand Gulf 1, Waterford 3,
                         ANO, and River Bend

Entergy Services         Entergy Services, Inc.

Entergy Power            Entergy  Power, Inc., a subsidiary of Entergy
                         Corporation that markets capacity and  energy
                         for resale from certain generating facilities
                         to other parties, principally non-affiliates

EPAct                    The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                     Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC                     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Grand Gulf Station       Grand  Gulf Steam Electric Generating Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 1             Unit   No.  1  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2             Unit   No.  2  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

GSU                      Gulf   States  Utilities  Company  (including
                         wholly-owned    subsidiaries    -     Varibus
                         Corporation, GSG&T, Inc., Prudential Oil  and
                         Gas, Inc., and Southern Gulf Railway Company)

Independence Station     Independence   Steam   Electric    Generating
                         Station

KWH                      Kilowatt-Hour(s)

LP&L                     Louisiana Power & Light Company

Merger                   The  combination transaction, consummated  on
                         December  31,  1993, by which  GSU  became  a
                         subsidiary of Entergy Corporation and Entergy
                         Corporation became a Delaware Corporation

Money Pool               Entergy  Money  Pool,  which  allows  certain
                         System companies to borrow from, or lend  to,
                         certain other System companies

MP&L                     Mississippi Power & Light Company

NOPSI                    New Orleans Public Service Inc.

NRC                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

OBRA                     Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993

Revised Settlement 
 Agreement               Arkansas Settlement Agreement,  as
                         modified by the APSC order issued October  6,
                         1988,  to  bring  the  Grand  Gulf  1-related
                         phase-in   plan  into  compliance  with   the
                         requirements    of   SFAS   92,    "Regulated
                         Enterprises - Accounting for Phase-in Plans"

SEC                      Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                     Statement  of Financial Accounting  Standards
                         promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                 SFAS   106,   "Employers'   Accounting    for
                         Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"

SFAS 109                 SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System or Entergy        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

System Energy            System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels             System Fuels, Inc.

System operating 
 companies               AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI,
                         collectively

Union Electric           Union Electric Company of St. Louis, Missouri

White Bluff Station      White Bluff Steam Electric Generating Station



                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                         REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


     The management of Arkansas Power & Light Company has prepared and
is  responsible  for  the financial statements and  related  financial
information  included herein.  The financial statements are  based  on
generally   accepted  accounting  principles.   Financial  information
included  elsewhere  in this report is consistent with  the  financial
statements.

       To   meet   its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  financial
information,  management maintains and enforces a system  of  internal
accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance,
on  a  cost-effective  basis,  as to the integrity,  objectivity,  and
reliability  of  the financial records, and as to  the  protection  of
assets.   This system includes communication through written  policies
and  procedures,  an employee Code of Conduct, and  an  organizational
structure that provides for appropriate division of responsibility and
the  training  of  personnel.   This  system  is  also  tested  by   a
comprehensive internal audit program.

       The   independent  public  accountants  provide  an   objective
assessment  of the degree to which management meets its responsibility
for  fairness  of  financial reporting.  They regularly  evaluate  the
system  of  internal accounting controls and perform  such  tests  and
other  procedures  as  they deem necessary to  reach  and  express  an
opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management  believes that these policies and procedures  provide
reasonable assurance that its operations are carried out with  a  high
standard of business conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                     /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                         GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    Senior Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer



                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                   AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                   
                                   
      The  Entergy  Corporation  Board of Directors'  Audit  Committee
functions  as the Audit Committee for Arkansas Power & Light  Company.
The  Audit  Committee  is  comprised of four directors,  who  are  not
officers of AP&L:  H. Duke Shackelford (Chairman), Lucie J. Fjeldstad,
Dr.  Norman C. Francis, and James R. Nichols.  The committee held four
meetings during 1994.

      The  Audit Committee oversees AP&L's financial reporting process
on  behalf of the Board of Directors and provides reasonable assurance
to  the  Board  that sufficient operating, accounting,  and  financial
controls  are in existence and are adequately reviewed by programs  of
internal and external audits.

      The  Audit Committee discussed with Entergy's internal  auditors
and  the independent public accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.) the
overall scope and specific plans for their respective audits, as  well
as  AP&L's  financial statements and the adequacy of  AP&L's  internal
controls.   The committee met, together and separately, with Entergy's
internal   auditors   and  independent  public  accountants,   without
management  present,  to discuss the results of  their  audits,  their
evaluation  of  AP&L's internal controls, and the overall  quality  of
AP&L's  financial  reporting.   The meetings  also  were  designed  to
facilitate  and  encourage  any  private  communication  between   the
committee and the internal auditors or independent public accountants.



                                   /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                   H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                   Chairman, Audit Committee



                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Arkansas Power & Light Company

     We have audited the accompanying balance sheet  of Arkansas Power
& Light Company as of December 31, 1994, and the related statements of
income,  retained  earnings and  cash flows for the year  then  ended.
These  financial  statements are the responsibility of  the  Company's
management.   Our  responsibility is to express an  opinion  on  these
financial statements based on our audit.  The  financial statements of
the  Company as of December 31, 1993 and for the years ended  December
31, 1993 and 1992, were audited by other auditors, whose report, dated
February  11,  1994, included an explanatory paragraph that  described
changes  in  methods  of  accounting for revenues,  income  taxes  and
postretirement  benefits other than pensions which  are  discussed  in
Notes 1, 3 and 10 respectively, to these financial statements.

      We  conducted  our audit  in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audit   provides  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our  opinion,  the financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position  of
the Company as of December 31, 1994, and the result  of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for  the year then  ended  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995

                                   
                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
     Arkansas Power & Light Company

      We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Arkansas Power
&  Light  Company  (AP&L) as of December 31,  1993,  and  the  related
statements  of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for  each  of
the  two years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements   are   the  responsibility  of  AP&L's  management.    Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial position of AP&L  at  December  31,
1993, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, AP&L changed
its  method  of accounting for revenues in 1993 and, as  discussed  in
Notes  3 and 10 to the financial statements, in 1993 AP&L changed  its
methods  of  accounting  for income taxes and postretirement  benefits
other than pensions, respectively.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994

                        
                                                   
                                                    
                                                   
                    
                                                      
                                   
                                   
                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


      Liquidity  is  important to AP&L due to  the  capital  intensive
nature of its business, which requires large investments in long-lived
assets. While large capital expenditures for the construction  of  new
generating  capacity  are  not currently planned,  AP&L  does  require
significant  capital  resources for the periodic maturity  of  certain
series of debt and preferred stock and ongoing construction.  Net cash
flow  from  operations totaled $356 million, $346  million,  and  $224
million  in  1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.  Net cash  flow  from
operations increased in 1993 due primarily to increased electric sales
and increased collections under the phase-in plan, as discussed below.
In  recent years, this cash flow, supplemented by issuances  of  debt,
has  been sufficient to meet substantially all investing and financing
requirements,   including   capital   expenditures,   dividends,   and
debt/preferred stock maturities.  AP&L's ability to fund these capital
requirements  results,  in  part,  from  its  continued   efforts   to
streamline  operations and reduce costs, as well as collections  under
its  Grand  Gulf  1 rate phase-in plan which exceed the  current  cash
requirements  for  Grand  Gulf  1-related  costs.   (In   the   income
statement, these revenue collections are offset by the amortization of
previously  deferred  costs; therefore, there  is  no  effect  on  net
income.) AP&L's Grand Gulf 1 phase-in plan will continue to contribute
to  AP&L's  cash  position through 1998.  See Note  2  for  additional
information  on AP&L's rate phase-in plan.  See Note 8 for  additional
information on AP&L's capital and refinancing requirements in  1995  -
1997.   Also, to the extent current market interest and dividend rates
allow,  AP&L  may continue to refinance high-cost debt  and  preferred
stock prior to maturity.

     Earnings coverage tests and bondable property additions limit the
amount  of  first  mortgage bonds and preferred stock  that  AP&L  can
issue.   Based  on  the  most  restrictive  applicable  tests  as   of
December 31, 1994, and an assumed annual interest or dividend rate  of
9.25%,  AP&L  could  have  issued $253  million  of  additional  first
mortgage  bonds or $468 million of additional preferred  stock.   AP&L
has  the  conditional  ability  to  issue  first  mortgage  bonds  and
preferred  stock  against the retirement of first mortgage  bonds  and
preferred  stock, respectively, in some cases, without  satisfying  an
earnings coverage test.

      See Notes 5 and 6 for information on AP&L's financing activities
and  Note 4, for information on AP&L's short-term borrowings and lines
of credit.

                       
                       ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                           STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                            
                                         For the Years Ended December 31,
                                          1994        1993        1992
                                                 (In Thousands)
                                                                  
Operating Revenues                      $1,590,742  $1,591,568  $1,521,129
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------     
Operating Expenses:                                               
  Operation and maintenance:                                      
   Fuel and fuel-related expenses          261,932     257,983     242,040

   Purchased power                         328,379     349,718     417,099
   Nuclear refueling outage expenses        33,107      30,069      40,512
   Other operation and maintenance         390,472     373,758     363,768
 Depreciation and decommissioning          149,878     135,530     132,459
 Taxes other than income taxes              33,610      28,626      26,709
 Income taxes                                9,938      18,746       4,058
 Amortization of rate deferrals            166,793     160,916     114,711
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
        Total                            1,374,109   1,355,346   1,341,356
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
                   

Operating Income                           216,633     236,222     179,773
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
                     
Other Income (Deductions):                                        
  Allowance for equity funds used
   during construction                       4,001       3,627       4,173
  Miscellaneous - net                       48,049      64,884     113,842
  Income taxes                             (19,282)    (32,451)    (46,531)
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
        Total                               32,768      36,060      71,484
                                        ----------  ----------  ---------- 
                    

Interest Charges:                                                 
  Interest on long-term debt               106,001     110,472     121,676
  Other interest - net                       4,811       9,118       2,308
  Allowance for borrowed funds used
   during construction                      (3,674)     (2,418)     (3,256)
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
        Total                              107,138     117,172     120,728
                                        ----------  ----------  ---------- 
                                                           
Income before Cumulative Effect of a                                  
Change in Accounting Principle             142,263     155,110     130,529
                                                                  
Cumulative Effect to January 1, 1993                                   
of Accruing Unbilled Revenues (net
of income taxes of $31,140)                      -      50,187           -
                                        ----------  ----------  ---------- 
                       
Net Income                                 142,263     205,297     130,529
                                                                   
Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements
 and Other                                  19,275      20,877      23,202
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------  
Earnings Applicable to Common Stock       $122,988    $184,420    $107,327
                                        ==========  ==========  ==========

See Notes to Financial Statements.
                                                                  
                      
                      ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                      STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                                                       

                                             For the Years Ended December 31,
                                                1994        1993      1992
                                                      (In Thousands)
                                                                         
Retained Earnings, January 1                  $448,811    $420,691  $388,364
  Add:                                                                    
    Net income                                 142,263     205,297   130,529
                                              --------    --------  --------
        Total                                  591,074     625,988   518,893
                                              --------    --------  --------  
  Deduct:                                                                 
    Dividends declared:                                                   
      Preferred stock                           19,275      20,877    23,202
      Common stock                              80,000     156,300    75,000
                                              --------    --------  -------- 
        Total                                   99,275     177,177    98,202
                                              --------    --------  --------
Retained Earnings, December 31 (Note 7)       $491,799    $448,811  $420,691
                                              ========    ========  ========
                                                                         
                                                                           
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                       
                                   
                                   
                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

      Net  income  decreased  in 1994 due primarily  to  the  one-time
recording in the first quarter of 1993 of the cumulative effect of the
change  in accounting principle for unbilled revenues and its  ongoing
effects,  and  to increased operation and maintenance  expenses  as  a
result of restructuring costs and storm damage activity during 1994.

      Net  income  increased  in 1993 due primarily  to  the  one-time
recording  of  the  cumulative  effect of  the  change  in  accounting
principle for unbilled revenues (see Note 1), and its ongoing effects,
partially offset by the effect of the implementation of SFAS 109  (see
Note 3) and by the impact in March 1992 of an after-tax gain from  the
sale  of  AP&L's retail properties in Missouri.  Effective January  1,
1993, AP&L began accruing as revenues the charges for energy delivered
to  customers  but not yet billed.  Electric revenues were  previously
recorded  on  a  cycle-billing basis.  Excluding the  above  mentioned
items,  net  income for 1993 would have been $157.7  million  and  net
income  for  1992  would have been $110.9 million.  This  increase  of
$46.8 million is due primarily to increased retail energy sales.

      Significant  factors  affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and  1992,
are  discussed  under  "Revenues and Sales," "Expenses,"  and  "Other"
below.

Revenues and Sales

      See  "Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison," following
the  notes,  for information on operating revenues by source  and  KWH
sales.

      Total  revenues remained relatively unchanged in  1994.   Retail
revenue decreased primarily due to lower fuel recovery revenue  during
the  year offset by increased sales for resale to associated companies
in 1994, caused by changes in generation availability and requirements
among the System operating companies.

      Electric  operating  revenues were higher  in  1993  due  to  an
increase in residential and commercial energy sales resulting  from  a
return  to more normal weather as compared to milder weather in  1992.
Industrial  sales  increased  primarily  in  the  lumber/plywood   and
petroleum/natural  gas  pipeline industries.   Additionally,  electric
revenues  increased as a result of increased collections of previously
deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs, which do not impact net income.

Expenses

      Operating expenses increased in 1994 due primarily to  increased
other operation and maintenance expenses and increased amortization of
rate  deferrals  partially offset by lower purchased  power  expenses.
Operating  expenses  increased in 1993 due primarily  to  higher  fuel
expense,  income  tax  expense  and  increased  amortization  of  rate
deferrals.

      Other  operation  and  maintenance expenses  increased  in  1994
primarily  due  to the storm damage costs and restructuring  costs  as
discussed  in Note 12.  The decrease in 1994 purchased power  expenses
is primarily due to the decrease in the price of purchased power.

      Fuel for electric generation and fuel-related expenses increased
in  1993  due  primarily  to  an increase in  generation  requirements
resulting  primarily from increased retail energy sales and  increased
fuel  costs  as  discussed in "Revenues and Sales"  above.   Purchased
power  decreased in 1993 due primarily to energy demands being met  by
increased nuclear generation.

      Total  income taxes decreased during 1994 primarily due  to  the
write-off  of  unamortized deferred investment  tax  credit  of  $27.3
million  due  to a FERC settlement and due to lower pretax  income  in
1994.   This  decrease  was partially offset by  an  increase  in  tax
expense  due  to  the true-up of actual income tax  expense  for  1993
determined during 1994.

      Total  income  taxes increased in 1993 due primarily  to  higher
pretax  income, an increase in the federal income tax rate as a result
of OBRA, and the effect of implementing SFAS 109.

      The  amortization of rate deferrals increased  in  1993  due  to
increased  amortization of previously deferred  Grand  Gulf  1-related
costs pursuant to the step-up provisions of AP&L's phase-in plan.

Other

      Miscellaneous other income - net decreased in 1994 due primarily
to reduced Grand Gulf 1 carrying charges. Miscellaneous other income -
net  decreased in 1993 due primarily to the impact of the pretax  gain
on the 1992 sale of AP&L's retail properties in Missouri.

      Other  income taxes decreased in 1994 primarily due to  a  lower
pretax income as discussed above.

      Interest  on  long-term debt decreased  in  1994  and  1993  due
primarily to the continued refinancing of high-cost debt.


                                   
                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

       The   electric   utility  industry  is  becoming   increasingly
competitive and AP&L is seeking to become a leading competitor in  the
changing  electric  energy business.  Competition presents  AP&L  with
many  challenges.  The following have been identified by AP&L  as  its
major competitive challenges.

                   Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
       Increasing  competition  in  the  utility  industry  brings  an
increased  need  to stabilize or reduce retail rates.   In  connection
with  the Merger, AP&L agreed with its retail regulator not to request
any  general  retail  rate  increases that would  take  effect  before
November  1998,  with  certain exceptions.  See  Note  2  for  further
information.  Recognizing that many industrial customers  have  energy
alternatives, AP&L continues to work with these customers  to  address
their  needs.   In  certain cases, competitive prices are  negotiated,
using variable rate designs.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
service  territory,  is  evolving.  Over  a  dozen  states  have  been
studying the concept of retail competition.  In April 1994, the  state
of  Michigan  agreed  to a five-year experiment  that  allows  limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  decision  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  the  FERC issued a notice of proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

      In  the wholesale rate area, FERC approved in 1992, with certain
modifications,  the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  Entergy
Power to sell wholesale power at market-based rates and to provide  to
electric  utilities "open access" to the System's transmission  system
(subject  to  certain  requirements).  GSU was  later  added  to  this
filing.   On October 31, 1994, as amended on January 25, 1995, Entergy
Services  filed  with  FERC revised transmission tariffs  intended  to
provide  access  to  transmission service on the  same  or  comparable
basis,  terms,  and conditions as the System operating companies,  and
the matter is pending. Open access and market pricing, once in effect,
will  increase marketing opportunities for AP&L, but will also  expose
AP&L  to  the  risk  of  loss  of load  or  reduced  revenues  due  to
competition with alternative suppliers.

      In  March  1994,  North Little Rock, Arkansas,  awarded  AP&L  a
wholesale power contract that will provide estimated revenues of  $347
million  over  11 years.  Under the contract, the price  per  KWH  was
reduced  18%,  with increases in price through the year  2004.   AP&L,
which  has  been  serving North Little Rock for  over  40  years,  was
awarded  the  contract after intense bidding with several competitors.
On  May  22,  1994,  FERC  accepted  the  contract.   Rehearings  were
requested by one of AP&L's competitors and were held in February 1995.
The matter is pending.

     In light of the rate issues discussed above, AP&L is aggressively
reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions that might  result
as  well  as  to become more competitive.  In 1994, AP&L  announced  a
restructuring program related to certain of its operating units.  This
program   is   designed  to  reduce  costs  and    improve   operating
efficiencies.  See Note 12 for further information.  Also, in response
to  an increasingly competitive environment, AP&L announced intentions
to revise its initial least cost planning activities.

                     The Energy Policy Act of 1992
                                   
     The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering
the  way  Entergy  and  the  rest  of the  electric  utility  industry
operate.  The EPAct encourages competition and affords utilities  the
opportunities,  and  the  risks, associated  with  an  open  and  more
competitive  market  environment.  The EPAct creates  exemptions  from
regulation under the Holding Company Act and creates a class of exempt
wholesale generators consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities
that  are  owners and operators of facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC  the authority to order investor-owned utilities, including AP&L,
to  transmit  power  and  energy to or for  wholesale  purchasers  and
sellers.   The  law creates the potential for electric  utilities  and
other  power  producers to gain increased access to  the  transmission
systems  of other entities to facilitate wholesale sales.   Both  AP&L
and Entergy Power expect to compete in this market.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.   In  accordance  with the agreement, System  Energy  refunded
approximately $22.2 million to AP&L, which will in turn  make  refunds
or credits to its customers (except for those portions attributable to
its  retained  share  of  Grand Gulf 1 costs).   Additionally,  System
Energy  will  refund  a  total of approximately  $22.3  million,  plus
interest,  to AP&L over the period through June 2004.  The  settlement
also  required the write-off of approximately $27.3 million of certain
related  unamortized balances of deferred investment  tax  credits  by
AP&L.

ANO Matters

      ANO  2  experienced a forced outage for repair of certain  steam
generator  tubes in March 1992.  Further inspections and repairs  were
conducted  at subsequent refueling and mid-cycle outages in  September
1992,  May  1993,   April  1994, and January  1995.   AP&L's  budgeted
maintenance  expenditures were adequate to  cover  the  cost  of  such
repairs.  ANO 2's output has been reduced 15 megawatts or 1.6% due  to
secondary  side  fouling,  tube plugging,  and  reduction  of  primary
temperature.  Entergy Operations continues to take steps at ANO  2  to
reduce  the  number and severity of future tube cracks.  In  addition,
Entergy  Operations  continues to meet with the NRC  to  discuss  such
steps  and results of inspections of the generator tubes, as  well  as
the  timing of future inspections.  Additional inspections are planned
for the normal refueling outage scheduled for October 1995.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition and measurement of asset impairment. Certain operations of
AP&L  are  potentially affected by this standard,  and  any  resulting
write-offs  will  depend on future operating costs, generating  units'
efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy over the
remaining  life  of  the  units.  Based  on  current  estimates,  AP&L
anticipates that future revenues will fully recover the costs of  such
operations.

      Continued  Application of SFAS 71 - AP&L's financial  statements
currently  reflect  assets  and  costs  based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking  regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting  for
the  Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  As discussed above, the
electric utility industry is changing and these changes could possibly
result  in  the discontinuance of  the application of SFAS  71,  which
would  result in the elimination of regulatory assets and liabilities.
See Note 1 for further information.

      Accounting  for  Decommissioning Costs - The FASB  is  currently
reviewing  the accounting for decommissioning of nuclear plants.  This
project  could  possibly change AP&L's, as well as the entire  utility
industry's,  accounting for such costs.  For further information,  see
Note 8.


                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      AP&L  maintains  accounts  in accordance  with  FERC  and  other
regulatory guidelines.  Certain previously reported amounts have  been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      Prior to January 1, 1993, AP&L recorded revenues when billed  to
its customers with no accrual for energy delivered but not yet billed.
To  provide  a  better  matching of revenues and  expenses,  effective
January  1,  1993,  AP&L adopted a change in accounting  principle  to
provide  for  accrual of estimated unbilled revenues.  The  cumulative
effect  of this accounting change as of January 1, 1993 increased  net
income  by  $50.2  million.  Had this new accounting  method  been  in
effect  during  prior years, net income before the  cumulative  effect
would  not  have  been materially different from  that  shown  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

       Substantially  all  of  AP&L's  rate  schedules  include   fuel
adjustment clauses that allow either current recovery or deferrals  of
fuel costs until such costs are reflected in the related revenues. The
fuel  adjustment clause provides, as an incentive with respect to ANO,
for  over-  or  under-recovery of the cost of  replacement  energy  in
excess  of the cost of equal amounts of nuclear energy when the  units
are not down for refueling.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of
utility  plant retired or removed, plus the applicable removal  costs,
less  salvage,  is charged to accumulated depreciation.   Maintenance,
repairs,   and  minor  replacement  costs  are  charged  to  operating
expenses.  Substantially all of AP&L's utility plant is subject to the
lien of its mortgage and deed of trust.

      Total AP&L net utility plant in service of $2.64 billion  as  of
December  31,  1994 includes $1.23 billion of production  plant,  $.43
billion of transmission plant, $.82 billion of distribution plant, and
$.16 billion of other plant.

      Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  basis  at  rates
based  on  the  estimated service lives and costs of  removal  of  the
various  classes  of  property.  Depreciation  provisions  on  average
depreciable property approximated 3.4% in 1994, 1993 and 1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included  in rates.  AP&L's effective composite rates for  AFUDC  were
9.2%, 10.3%, and 10.5% for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Jointly-Owned Generating Stations

      AP&L  is  a  co-owner  of two coal-fueled,  two-unit  generating
stations, the White Bluff Station and the Independence Station.   AP&L
is  the  agent for the respective co-owners and operates the stations.
AP&L  records  the  investment  and  expenses  associated  with  these
generating stations to the extent of its ownership interests.   As  of
December  31, 1994, AP&L's investment and accumulated depreciation  in
these generating stations were as follows:

                                   Total             
                                  Megawatt                        Accumulated
Generating Stations              Capability Ownership Investment  Depreciation
                                                         (In Thousands)
White Bluff:     Units 1 and 2      1,660    57.00%    $400,918   $151,830
Independence:    Unit 1               836    31.50%    $116,555   $ 38,594
                 Common Facilities           15.75%    $ 29,331   $  8,758

Income Taxes

      AP&L,  its  parent,  and affiliates file a consolidated  federal
income  tax  return.  Income taxes are allocated to AP&L in proportion
to  its  contribution to consolidated taxable income.  SEC regulations
require that no Entergy Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it
would  have  had  a separate income tax return been  filed.   Deferred
taxes  are  recorded for all temporary differences  between  book  and
taxable  income.   Investment tax credits are deferred  and  amortized
based  upon  the  average  useful life  of  the  related  property  in
accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note 3, in 1993  AP&L
changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

Reacquired Debt

      The premiums and costs associated with reacquired debt are being
amortized  over the life of the related new issuances,  in  accordance
with ratemaking treatment.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      AP&L  considers all unrestricted highly liquid debt  instruments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and a modified regulatory environment.  AP&L's  financial
statements  currently reflect assets and costs based on current  cost-
based  ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71, "Accounting
for   the   Effects   of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation."   Continued
applicability of SFAS 71 to AP&L's financial statements requires  that
rates  set  by  an  independent regulator on a cost of  service  basis
(including  a  reasonable  rate of return  on  invested  capital)  can
actually be charged to and collected from customers.
      
      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation or a change in  the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As  of December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future, AP&L's
financial statements continue to follow SFAS 71.

Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined by AP&L, using available market information and appropriate
valuation  methodologies.  However, considerable judgment is  required
in  developing the estimates of fair value.  Therefore, estimates  are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that AP&L could realize in a
current  market  exchange.  In addition, gains or losses  realized  on
financial instruments may be reflected in future rates and not  accrue
to the benefit of stockholders.

      AP&L  considers  the  carrying amounts of financial  instruments
classified  as  current  assets and liabilities  to  be  a  reasonable
estimate  of their fair value because of the short maturity  of  these
instruments.   In  addition,  AP&L  does  not  presently  expect  that
performance  of  its obligations will be required in  connection  with
certain   off-balance  sheet  commitments  and  guarantees  considered
financial instruments.  Due to this factor, and because of the related
party  nature  of  these commitments and guarantees, determination  of
fair  value is not considered practicable.  See Notes 5, 6, and 8  for
additional fair value disclosure.

      AP&L adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January 1, 1994.
As  a result, at December 31, 1994, AP&L recorded on the balance sheet
an   additional   $1.4   million  in  decommissioning   trust   funds,
representing the amount by which the fair value of the securities held
in  such  funds exceeds the amounts for decommissioning  recovered  in
rates  and  deposited  in the funds and the related  earnings  on  the
amounts   deposited.    Due   to   the   regulatory   treatment    for
decommissioning  trust funds, AP&L recorded an  offsetting  amount  in
unrealized gains on investment securities as a regulatory liability.


NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Merger - Related Rate Agreement

      In  November  1993, AP&L and the APSC entered into a  settlement
agreement whereby the APSC agreed to withdraw its request for  hearing
and  its  objections in the SEC proceeding related to the Merger.   In
return  AP&L agreed, among other things, (a) that it will not  request
any  general  retail  rate  increase that  would  take  effect  before
November 3, 1998, except for, among other things, increases associated
with  the  recovery  of  certain Grand Gulf  1-related  costs,  excess
capacity  costs, and costs related to the adoption of  SFAS  106  that
were previously deferred, recovery of certain taxes, and force majeure
(defined  to  include, among other things, war, natural  catastrophes,
and  high  inflation);  and (b) that its retail  ratepayers  would  be
protected  from  (1) increases in its cost of capital  resulting  from
risks  associated with the Merger, (2) recovery of any portion of  the
acquisition premium or transactional costs associated with the Merger,
(3)  certain  direct allocations of costs associated with GSU's  River
Bend nuclear unit, and (4) any losses of GSU resulting from resolution
of litigation in connection with its ownership of River Bend.

Arkansas - Revised Settlement Agreement

      Pursuant to the terms of the Revised Settlement Agreement,  AP&L
(1)  permanently  retains  7.92% (stated as  a  percentage  of  System
Energy's  share  of  Grand Gulf 1) of its Grand Gulf  1-related  costs
(Retained  Share)  for  1994 and all succeeding  years  of  commercial
operation of the unit; (2) recovers currently 28.08% of such costs  in
1994  and  thereafter; and (3) deferred a portion of  such  costs  for
future  recovery (Deferred Balance).  AP&L is permitted  to  currently
recover  carrying charges on the unrecovered portion of  the  Deferred
Balance.   For  the  year ended December 31, 1994,  $170  million  was
billed to AP&L by System Energy.

     AP&L has the right under the Revised Settlement Agreement to sell
capacity  and  energy  available from  its  Retained  Share  to  third
parties, which shall not include AP&L's wholesale customers.   In  the
event  AP&L is not able to sell such capacity and energy to such third
parties,  it  has  the  right to sell the energy available  from  such
capacity,  and  to date a significant portion has been  sold,  to  its
retail customers at a price equal to AP&L's avoided energy cost, which
is  currently  less  than  AP&L's cost of such  energy.   The  Revised
Settlement  Agreement  requires that a portion of  the  proceeds  from
sales of Retained Share capacity and energy to third parties prior  to
January 1, 1996 be applied to reduce the Deferred Balance.

Arkansas - Rate Riders

      In  conjunction with the Revised Settlement Agreement, AP&L  was
permitted to implement annual updates to the Grand Gulf 1 rate  rider,
increasing  Arkansas retail rates by approximately 3.1% and  2.6%  for
the  years  1992  and  1991, respectively.   These  increases  reflect
scheduled phase-in plan increases adjusted for any prior year  over-or
under-collection.  Beginning in 1993 and continuing  for  a  five-year
period,  rates  will remain at the 1992 level, unless adjustments  are
made for an over-or under-collection of Grand Gulf 1-related costs  in
excess  of $10 million.  Although it was not required under the  terms
of the Grand Gulf 1 rate rider, in 1993 AP&L opted to implement a 0.7%
rate  refund  in  1994 for a cumulative over-recovery amount  of  $7.3
million.

      Various other rate riders, which modify non-Grand Gulf  1  rates
under  the  Revised Settlement Agreement, have been  implemented  with
respect  to tax adjustments, depreciation, decommissioning costs,  and
deferred  return on excess capacity (which is being recovered  over  a
10-year period ending in 1998).

Missouri Retail Operations

      In  March  1992, AP&L sold its retail properties in Missouri  to
Union  Electric for approximately $68 million. The gain on  the  sale,
classified  as "Other Income-Miscellaneous" in the 1992  Statement  of
Income,  was approximately $33.7 million, which resulted  in  a  $19.6
million increase in net income after taxes.  In addition, AP&L  agreed
to  sell  to  Union Electric 120 megawatts of capacity and  associated
energy for an initial period of 10 years, and beginning on January  1,
1995,  Union  Electric  shall also purchase 40  megawatts  of  peaking
capacity from AP&L.

February 1994 Ice Storm

      In  early February 1994, an ice storm left more than 97,000 AP&L
customers  without electric power across the service area.  The  storm
was  the  most  severe  natural disaster ever to  affect  the  System,
causing  damage  to  transmission and distribution  lines,  equipment,
poles,   and  facilities  in  certain  areas.   Repair  costs  totaled
approximately  $30.8  million  with $18.7  million  of  these  amounts
capitalized  as plant-related costs.  The remaining balance  has  been
charged against regulatory storm damage reserves.


NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES

     Income tax expense consisted of the following:


      Total  income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying
the  statutory  federal income tax rate to income before  taxes.   The
reasons for the differences were:


      Significant components of AP&L's net deferred tax liabilities as
of December 31, 1994 and 1993, were (in thousands):

                                                          1994          1993
    Deferred tax liabilities:                                         
      Net regulatory assets                            $(273,574)  $  (294,713)
      Plant related basis differences                   (465,787)     (458,023)
      Rate deferrals                                    (183,700)     (229,714)
      Bond reacquisition                                 (22,496)      (23,604)
      Decontamination and decommissioning fund           (17,104)      (16,429)
      Other                                              (20,317)      (21,414)
                                                       ---------   -----------
      Total                                            $(982,978)  $(1,043,897)
                                                       =========   ===========
            
    Deferred tax assets:                                              
      Accumulated deferred investment tax credit       $  46,506   $    60,698
      Nuclear refueling and maintenance                   14,889        12,035
      Alternative minimum tax credit                       3,536        34,137
      Standard coal plant                                  9,214         9,552
      Other                                               24,232        18,490
                                                       ---------   -----------
      Total                                            $  98,377   $   134,912
                                                       =========   ===========

                                                                        
      Net deferred tax liabilities                     $(884,601)  $  (908,985)
                                                       =========   ===========
     
     The alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit as of December 31, 1994,
was $3.5 million.  This AMT credit can be carried forward indefinitely
and will reduce AP&L's federal income tax liability in future years.

      In  accordance with a System Energy FERC settlement, AP&L  wrote
off  $27.3  million  of unamortized deferred investment tax credits in 
1994.

      In 1993, AP&L adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that deferred
income   taxes   be   recorded  for  all  temporary  differences   and
carryforwards, and that deferred tax balances be based on enacted  tax
laws at tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences  reverse.   SFAS 109 required that  regulated  enterprises
recognize  adjustments  resulting from  implementation  as  regulatory
assets  or  liabilities if it is probable that such  amounts  will  be
recovered  from  or  returned  to  customers  in  future   rates.    A
substantial  majority  of the adjustments required  by  SFAS  109  was
recorded  to  deferred  tax  balance sheet  accounts  with  offsetting
adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities.  As a result of  the
adoption  of  SFAS 109, 1993 net income was reduced by  $2.6  million,
assets  were  increased  by  $168.2  million,  and  liabilities   were
increased by $170.8 million.  The cumulative effect of the adoption of
SFAS 109 is included in income tax expense charged to operations.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

     The SEC has authorized AP&L to effect short-term borrowings up to
$125  million, which may be increased to as much as $243 million after
further   SEC  approval.   This  authorization  is  effective  through
November  30,  1996.   As of December 31, 1994, AP&L  had  outstanding
short-term  lines  of  credit of $34 million  from  banks  within  its
service  territory.   Interest rates associated with  these  lines  of
credit  generally  are based on the prime rate, the  London  interbank
offered rate, or a bid rate.  Commitment fees on these lines of credit
are  .125% of the amount of available credit.  In addition,  AP&L  can
borrow from the Money Pool, subject to its maximum authorized level of
short-term  borrowings and the availability of  funds.   AP&L  had  no
outstanding borrowings under the Money Pool arrangement as of December
31, 1994.


NOTE 5.   PREFERRED STOCK

      The  number of shares and dollar value of AP&L's preferred stock
were:
                                         
                                                                           
(1)   The  total  dollar value represents the involuntary  liquidation
      value of $25 per share.
(2)   These series are not redeemable as of December 31, 1994.

      The  fair value of AP&L's preferred stock with sinking fund  was
estimated  to be approximately $60.6 million and $74.7 million  as  of
December  31,  1994  and 1993, respectively.   The  fair  values  were
determined  using  quoted market prices or estimates  from  nationally
recognized  investment  banking  firms.  See  Note  1  for  additional
information on disclosure of fair value of financial instruments.

      Changes  in the preferred stock, with and without sinking  fund,
during the last three years were:

                                             Number of Shares
                                       1994       1993          1992
                                                              
     Preferred stock issuances:                               
      $0.01 par value                      -           -       600,000
     Preferred stock retirements:                             
      $100 par value                 (45,000)    (85,000)     (109,940)
      $25 par value                 (280,000)   (280,000)     (880,000)

      Cash  sinking  fund  requirements for the next  five  years  for
preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 1994 are (in millions):
1995  - $9.5; 1996 - $4.5; 1997 - $4.5; 1998 - $4.5; and 1999 -  $4.5.
AP&L   has  the  annual  non-cumulative  option  to  redeem,  at  par,
additional  amounts  of  certain series of its  outstanding  preferred
stock.


NOTE 6.   LONG-TERM DEBT

     The long-term debt of AP&L as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, was:

       Maturities        Interest Rates
     From    To        From        To                1994        1993
                                                       (In Thousands)
     First Mortgage Bonds
     1995   1999       4-5/8%    9-3/4%            $100,960    $100,560
     2000   2004       6%        9-3/4%             180,800     182,000
     2005   2009       6.25%     7-1/2%             215,000     215,000
     2019   2023       7%        10-3/8%            448,818     448,818

     Governmental Obligations*
     1995   2008       6.125%    10%                 53,120      83,290
     2009   2021       6.25%     11%                234,004     202,193

     Long-Term DOE Obligation (Note 8)              105,163     101,029
     Unamortized Premium and Discount - Net         (15,811)    (16,555)
                                                 ----------  ----------
       Total Long-Term Debt                       1,322,054   1,316,335
       Less Amount Due Within One Year               28,175       3,020
                                                 ----------  ----------
       Long-Term Debt Excluding Amount Due       $1,293,879  $1,313,315
         Within One Year                         ==========  ==========
  
  
  * Consists  of pollution control bonds, certain series of which  are
    secured by non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds.

      The fair value of AP&L's long-term debt, excluding long-term DOE
obligation,  as  of  December 31, 1994 and 1993 was  estimated  to  be
$1,133.6 million and $1,250.8 million, respectively.  The fair  values
were   determined  using  quoted  market  prices  or  estimates   from
nationally  recognized  investment banking  firms.   See  Note  1  for
additional  information  on  disclosure of  fair  value  of  financial
instruments.

     For the years 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, AP&L has long-term
debt  maturities and cash sinking fund requirements (in  millions)  of
$28.2,  $28.0,  $33.1,  $18.7, and $1.2, respectively.   In  addition,
other  sinking fund requirements of approximately $.9 million annually
may be satisfied by cash or by certification of property additions  at
the rate of 167% of such requirements.


NOTE 7.   DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     The indenture relating to AP&L's long-term debt and provisions of
its  Amended  and  Restated  Articles of  Incorporation,  as  amended,
relating  to  AP&L's preferred stock provide for restrictions  on  the
payment of cash dividends or other distributions on common stock.   As
of  December 31, 1994, $291.3 million of AP&L's retained earnings were
restricted   against   the  payment  of  cash   dividends   or   other
distributions on common stock.  On February 1, 1995, AP&L paid Entergy
Corporation a $32.8 million cash dividend on common stock.


NOTE 8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Capital Requirements and Financing

      Construction expenditures (excluding nuclear fuel) for the years
1995,  1996, and 1997 are estimated to total $154.9 million each year.
AP&L  will  also require $107 million during the period  1995-1997  to
meet  long-term debt and preferred stock maturities and  sinking  fund
requirements.   AP&L  plans  to  meet  the  above  requirements   with
internally  generated  funds and cash on hand.   See  Notes  5  and  6
regarding  the  possible  refunding,  redemption,  purchase  or  other
acquisition of certain outstanding series of preferred stock and long-
term debt.

Unit Power Sales Agreement

      System Energy has agreed to sell all of its 90% owned and leased
share  of  capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI  in accordance with specified percentages (AP&L  36%,  LP&L
14%,  MP&L 33%, and NOPSI 17%) as ordered by FERC.  Charges under this
agreement  are paid in consideration for AP&L's respective entitlement
to  receive capacity and energy, and are payable irrespective  of  the
quantity of energy delivered so long as the unit remains in commercial
operation.   The agreement will remain in effect until  terminated  by
the  parties  and approved by FERC, most likely upon  Grand  Gulf  1's
retirement from service. AP&L's monthly obligation for payments  under
the agreement is approximately $18 million.

Availability Agreement

      AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are individually obligated to  make
payments or subordinated advances to System Energy in accordance  with
stated  percentages  (AP&L 17.1%, LP&L 26.9%, MP&L  31.3%,  and  NOPSI
24.7%)  in amounts that when added to amounts received under the  Unit
Power  Sales  Agreement or otherwise, are adequate  to  cover  all  of
System  Energy's  operating expenses. System Energy has  assigned  its
rights  to payments and advances to certain creditors as security  for
certain  obligations.  Since commercial operation  of  Grand  Gulf  1,
payments  under  the  Unit  Power Sales Agreement  have  exceeded  the
amounts  payable  under the Availability Agreement.   Accordingly,  no
payments have ever been required.

Reallocation Agreement

      System  Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI entered into  the
Reallocation  Agreement relating to the sale of  capacity  and  energy
from  the  Grand  Gulf Station and the related costs, in  which  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI agreed to assume all of AP&L's responsibilities  and
obligations  with  respect  to  the  Grand  Gulf  Station  under   the
Availability Agreement.  FERC's decision allocating a portion of Grand
Gulf  1  capacity  and  energy  to AP&L  supersedes  the  Reallocation
Agreement as it relates to Grand Gulf 1.  Responsibility for any Grand
Gulf  2  amortization  amounts has been individually  allocated  (LP&L
26.23%,  MP&L  43.97%,  and  NOPSI 29.80%)  under  the  terms  of  the
Reallocation Agreement.  However, the Reallocation Agreement does  not
affect  AP&L's  obligation  to  System  Energy's  lenders  under   the
assignments  referred to in the preceding paragraph.   AP&L  would  be
liable  for  its share of such amounts if LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI  were
unable  to  meet  their contractual obligations.  No payments  of  any
amortization  amounts  will be required as long  as  amounts  paid  to
System  Energy  under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, including  other
funds  available to System Energy, exceed amounts required  under  the
Availability  Agreement, which is expected to  be  the  case  for  the
foreseeable future.

System Fuels

      AP&L  has  a  35%  interest in System  Fuels,  a  jointly  owned
subsidiary  of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  The parent  companies  of
System Fuels, including AP&L, agreed to make loans to System Fuels  to
finance its fuel procurement, delivery, and storage activities.  As of
December  31,  1994,  AP&L  had approximately  $11  million  of  loans
outstanding to System Fuels which mature in 2008.

      In  addition,  System  Fuels entered  into  a  revolving  credit
agreement  with  a  bank that provides $45 million  in  borrowings  to
finance  System  Fuels'  nuclear  materials  and  services  inventory.
Should  System  Fuels  default  on its obligations  under  its  credit
agreement,  AP&L,  LP&L,  and System Energy have  agreed  to  purchase
nuclear materials and services financed under the agreement.

      On  April  30,  1993,  AP&L  assumed System  Fuels'  rights  and
obligations  in  connection with System Fuels' coal car  leases.   The
other  parent companies of System Fuels have been released from  their
obligations with respect to the coal car leases.

Coal

      AP&L is a party to a contract for supply of coal from a mine  in
Wyoming and owns certain coal mining equipment and facilities  at  the
mine. Based on estimated reserves, the mine is expected to provide the
projected  requirements of the Independence Station through  at  least
2011.   AP&L has also agreed to purchase, over an approximate  20-year
period  beginning in 1980, 100 million tons of coal  for  use  at  the
White  Bluff  Station,  of which approximately 64  million  have  been
purchased as of December 31, 1994.

Nuclear Insurance

      The  Price-Anderson  Act limits public liability  for  a  single
nuclear  incident to approximately $8.92 billion as  of  December  31,
1994.  AP&L has protection for this liability through a combination of
private  insurance (currently $200 million) and an industry assessment
program.  Under the assessment program, the maximum amount that  would
be  required  for  each nuclear incident would be  $79.3  million  per
reactor,  payable  at a rate of $10 million per licensed  reactor  per
incident per year.  AP&L has two licensed reactors.  In addition, AP&L
participates  in  a private insurance program which provides  coverage
for  worker  tort claims filed for bodily injury caused  by  radiation
exposure.  AP&L's maximum assessment under the program is an aggregate
of  approximately $6.4 million in the event losses exceed  accumulated
reserve funds.

      AP&L  is  a  member of certain insurance programs  that  provide
coverage  for property damage, including decontamination and premature
decommissioning expense, to members' nuclear generating plants.  As of
December  31, 1994, AP&L was insured against such losses up  to  $2.75
billion,  with  $250 million of this amount designated  to  cover  any
shortfall  in  the  NRC required decommissioning  trust  funding.   In
addition, AP&L is a member of an insurance program that covers certain
replacement  power  and business interruption costs  incurred  due  to
prolonged  nuclear  unit  outages.   Under  the  property  damage  and
replacement power/business interruption insurance programs, AP&L could
be  subject  to  assessments if losses exceed  the  accumulated  funds
available  to  the  insurers.  As of December 31,  1994,  the  maximum
amount of such possible assessments to AP&L was $37.2 million.

      The  amount  of  property insurance presently  carried  by  AP&L
exceeds  the  NRC's  minimum  requirement  for  nuclear  power   plant
licensees of $1.06 billion per site.  NRC regulations provide that the
proceeds  of this insurance must be used, first, to place and maintain
the  reactor  in a safe and stable condition and, second, to  complete
decontamination  operations.  Only after proceeds  are  dedicated  for
such  use  and  regulatory approval is secured,  would  any  remaining
proceeds  be made available for the benefit of plant owners  or  their
creditors.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

      AP&L  provides  for estimated future disposal  costs  for  spent
nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of  1982.
AP&L  entered  into  a  contract with the DOE, whereby  the  DOE  will
furnish  disposal service at a cost of one mill per net KWH  generated
and sold after April 7, 1983, plus a one-time fee for generation prior
to  that  date.   AP&L elected to pay the one-time fee,  plus  accrued
interest,  and has recorded a liability as of December  31,  1994,  of
approximately  $105  million.  The fees payable  to  the  DOE  may  be
adjusted  in  the future to assure full recovery.  AP&L considers  all
costs  incurred  or to be incurred, except accrued interest,  for  the
disposal of spent nuclear fuel to be proper components of nuclear fuel
expense and provisions to recover such costs have been or will be made
in applications to regulatory authorities.

      Delays have occurred in the DOE's program for the acceptance and
disposal  of  spent  nuclear  fuel at a permanent  repository.   In  a
statement  released February 17, 1993, the DOE asserted that  it  does
not  have  a legal obligation to accept spent nuclear fuel without  an
operational  repository for which it has not yet arranged.   Currently
the  DOE  projects it will begin to accept spent fuel no earlier  than
2010.   In  the meantime, AP&L is responsible for spent fuel  storage.
Current on-site spent fuel storage capacity at ANO is estimated to  be
sufficient until mid-1995, at which time an ANO storage facility using
dry casks will begin operation.  This facility is estimated to provide
sufficient  storage until 2000, with the capability of being  expanded
further as required. The initial cost of providing the additional  on-
site  spent  fuel storage capability required at ANO is $5 million  to
$10  million  per unit.  In addition, approximately $3 million  to  $5
million  per unit will be required every two to three years subsequent
to 1995 until the DOE's repository begins accepting ANO's spent fuel.

      Entergy  Operations and System Fuels joined in lawsuits  against
the  DOE, seeking clarification of the DOE's responsibility to receive
spent nuclear fuel beginning in 1998.  The original suits, filed  June
20, 1994, asked for a ruling stating that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act
require  the DOE to begin taking title to the spent fuel and to  start
removing it from nuclear power plants in 1998, a mandate for the DOE's
nuclear  waste management program to begin accepting fuel in 1998  and
court  monitoring  of  the program, and the potential  for  escrow  of
payments to the Nuclear Waste Fund instead of directly to the DOE.

       AP&L  is  recovering  in  rates  amounts  sufficient  to   fund
decommissioning costs for ANO, based on a 1994 interim update  to  the
1992  decommissioning cost study (in 1992 dollars),  of  approximately
$806.3 million.  The 1994 interim update adjusted the 1992 study  only
for  increased  cost  of low level radioactive  waste  disposal.   The
amounts  recovered in rates are deposited in external trust funds  and
reported  at market value.  The accumulated decommissioning  liability
of  $137.4  million  as  of December 31, 1994, has  been  recorded  in
accumulated  depreciation.  Decommissioning expense in the  amount  of
$12.2 million was recorded in 1994. AP&L regularly reviews and updates
its  estimates for decommissioning costs and applications will be made
to   the  APSC  to  reflect  in  rates  future  changes  in  projected
decommissioning costs.  The actual decommissioning costs may vary from
the   estimates  because  of  regulatory  requirements,   changes   in
technology,  and increased costs of labor, materials,  and  equipment.
Management believes that actual decommissioning costs are likely to be
higher than the amounts presented above.

      The  staff  of  the SEC has questioned certain  of  the  current
accounting  practices of the electric utility industry  regarding  the
recognition, measurement, and classification of decommissioning  costs
for  nuclear  generating  stations  in  the  financial  statements  of
electric  utilities.   In  response to these questions,  the  FASB  is
currently  reviewing the accounting for decommissioning.   If  current
electric    utility   industry   accounting   practices    for    such
decommissioning  are  changed, annual provisions  for  decommissioning
could  increase,  the  estimated cost  for  decommissioning  could  be
recorded  as a liability rather than as accumulated depreciation,  and
trust  fund income from the external decommissioning trusts  could  be
reported as investment income.

      The  EPAct  has  a  provision  that  assesses  domestic  nuclear
utilities with fees for the decontamination and decommissioning of the
DOE's  past  uranium  enrichment operations.  The decontamination  and
decommissioning assessments will be used to set up a fund  into  which
contributions  from  utilities  and the  federal  government  will  be
placed.  AP&L's annual assessment, which will be adjusted annually for
inflation,   is   $3.4   million  (in  1995  dollars)   annually   for
approximately  15  years.  FERC requires that  utilities  treat  these
assessments  as  costs of fuel as they are amortized.  The  cumulative
liability  of  $38.9 million as of December 31, 1994, is  recorded  in
other  current  liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities,  and  is
offset in the financial statements by a regulatory asset.

ANO Matters

      ANO  2  experienced a forced outage for repair of certain  steam
generator  tubes in March 1992.  Further inspections and repairs  were
conducted  at subsequent refueling and mid-cycle outages in  September
1992,  May  1993,   April  1994, and January  1995.   AP&L's  budgeted
maintenance  expenditures were adequate to  cover  the  cost  of  such
repairs.  ANO 2's output has been reduced 15 megawatts or 1.6% due  to
secondary  side  fouling,  tube plugging,  and  reduction  of  primary
temperature.  Entergy Operations continues to take steps at ANO  2  to
reduce  the  number and severity of future tube cracks.  In  addition,
Entergy  Operations  continues to meet with the NRC  to  discuss  such
steps and results of inspections of the steam generator tubes, as well
as  the  timing  of  future inspections.  Additional  inspections  are
planned for the normal refueling outage scheduled for October 1995.


NOTE 9.   LEASES

       As   of  December  31,  1994,  AP&L  had  capital  leases   and
noncancelable operating leases (excluding the nuclear fuel lease) with
minimum lease payments as follows:

                                                    Capital     Operating
                                                     Leases       Leases
                                                        (In Thousands)

     1995                                             $13,539      $28,303
     1996                                              11,126       24,217
     1997                                               8,293       15,566
     1998                                               8,293       15,144
     1999                                               8,294       11,552
     Years thereafter                                  48,695       50,685
                                                      -------     --------
     Minimum lease payments                            98,240     $145,467
     Less: Amount representing interest                40,587     ========  
                                                      -------
     Present value of net minimum lease payments      $57,653      
                                                      =======

      Rental  expense for capital and operating leases (excluding  the
nuclear  fuel  lease) amounted to approximately $26.4  million,  $23.2
million, and $27.4 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Nuclear Fuel Lease

      AP&L has an arrangement to lease nuclear fuel in an amount up to
$125  million.   The lessor finances its acquisition of  nuclear  fuel
through  a  credit  agreement and the issuance of  notes.  The  credit
agreement,  which  was  entered into in 1988,  has  been  extended  to
December 1997 and the notes have varying remaining maturities of up to
3  years.  It is expected that these arrangements will be extended  or
alternative financing will be secured by the lessor upon the  maturity
of   the   current   arrangements,  based  on  AP&L's   nuclear   fuel
requirements.  If the lessor cannot arrange financing upon maturity of
its   borrowings,  AP&L  must  purchase  nuclear  fuel  in  an  amount
sufficient to enable the lessor to retire such borrowings.

     Lease payments are based on nuclear fuel use.  Nuclear fuel lease
expense  of $56.2 million, $69.7 million, and $65.5 million (including
interest  of  $7.5  million, $10.6 million,  and  $11.6  million)  was
charged to operations in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.


NOTE 10.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

      AP&L  has  a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially
all  of  its  employees.   The  pension plan  is  noncontributory  and
provides  pension  benefits  that are  based  on  employees'  credited
service and average compensation, generally during the last five years
before  retirement.   AP&L  funds pension  costs  in  accordance  with
contribution guidelines established by the Employee Retirement  Income
Security  Act  of 1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue  Code  of
1986,  as amended.  The assets of the plan consist primarily of common
and  preferred stocks, fixed income securities, interest  in  a  money
market fund, and insurance contracts.

      Effective  June  6,  1990, AP&L's nuclear  operations  employees
became employees of Entergy Operations.  However, the employees  still
remain   under  AP&L's  plan  and  no  transfers  of  related  pension
liabilities and assets have been made.

      AP&L's  1994,  1993,  and 1992 pension cost,  including  amounts
capitalized, included the following components:
      

      The funded status of AP&L's pension plan as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, was:


      The  significant  actuarial assumptions used  in  computing  the
information above for 1994, 1993, and 1992 were as follows:   weighted
average  discount  rate, 8.5% for 1994, 7.5% for 1993  and  8.25%  for
1992; weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels,
5.1%  for 1994 and 5.6% for 1993 and 1992 and expected long-term  rate
of return on plan assets, 8.5%.  Transition assets are being amortized
over 15 years.

Other Postretirement Benefits

      AP&L  also  provides  certain health  care  and  life  insurance
benefits  for  retired  employees.  Substantially  all  employees  may
become eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age  while
still working for AP&L. The cost of providing these benefits, recorded
on a cash basis, to retirees in 1992 was approximately $3.5 million.

      Effective January 1, 1993, AP&L adopted SFAS 106.  This standard
required  a  change  from  a  cash method  to  an  accrual  method  of
accounting  for  postretirement benefits other  than  pensions.   AP&L
continues  to  fund these benefits on a pay-as-you-go  basis.   As  of
January 1, 1993, the actuarially determined accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO) earned by retirees and active employees  was
estimated to be approximately $80.5 million.  This obligation is being
amortized over a 20-year period beginning in 1993.  AP&L has  received
an  order from the APSC permitting deferral, as a regulatory asset, of
the increased annual expense associated with these benefits.

      AP&L's  1994  and  1993 postretirement benefit  cost,  including
amounts capitalized and deferred, included the following components:

                                                         1994       1993
                                                          (In Thousands)

      Service cost - benefits earned during the period  $3,080      $2,366
      Interest cost on APBO                              5,510       6,427
      Actual return on plan assets                           -         (71)
      Net amortization and deferral                      3,833       3,954
                                                       -------    --------
      Net  postretirement benefit cost                 $12,423    $ 12,676
                                                       =======    ========

      The funded status of AP&L's pension plan as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, was:

                                                       1994      1993
                                                       (In Thousands)
      Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:                  
       Retirees                                         $49,291    $59,906
       Other fully eligible participants                  9,876      8,366
       Other active participants                         12,204     25,038
                                                       --------    -------    
                                                         71,371     93,310
      Plan assets at fair value                               -        354
                                                       --------    -------
      Plan assets less than APBO                        (71,371)   (92,956)
      Unrecognized transition obligation                 71,160     75,114
      Unrecognized net loss (gain)                      (16,272)     8,360
                                                       --------    -------
      Accrued postretirement benefit liability         $(16,483)   $(9,482)
                                                       ========    =======

      The  assumed  health care cost trend rate used in measuring  the
APBO  was  9.4%  for 1995, gradually decreasing each  successive  year
until it reaches 5.0% in 2011.  A one percentage-point increase in the
assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would have increased
the  APBO as of December 31, 1994, by 8.2% and the sum of the  service
cost  and  interest cost by approximately 10.8%.  The assumed discount
rate  and  rate of increase in future compensation used in determining
the  APBO  were 8.5% for 1994 and 7.5% for 1993 and 5.1% for 1994  and
5.5% for 1993, respectively.


NOTE 11.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

      AP&L buys electricity from and/or sells electricity to the other
System  operating  companies, System Energy, and Entergy  Power  under
rate schedules filed with FERC.  In addition, AP&L purchases fuel from
System  Fuels, receives technical and advisory services  from  Entergy
Services, and receives management and operating services from  Entergy
Operations.

      Operating  revenues  include revenues from sales  to  affiliates
amounting  to  $238.7  million in 1994, $181.8 million  in  1993,  and
$211.4  million  in  1992.  Operating expenses  include  charges  from
affiliates  for  fuel  costs,  purchased power  and  related  charges,
management  services,  and  technical and advisory  services  totaling
$310.7 million in 1994, $323.2 million in 1993, and $573.4 million  in
1992.    Operating  expenses  also  include  $25.7  million  in  1994,
$16.8  million in 1993, and $47.4 million in 1992, for power purchased
from   Entergy  Power.   AP&L  pays  directly  or  reimburses  Entergy
Operations  for  the  costs associated with operating  ANO  (excluding
nuclear fuel), which were approximately $221.2 million in 1994, $226.3
million in 1993, and $292.3 million in 1992.


NOTE 12.  RESTRUCTURING COSTS

    During  the  third quarter of 1994, AP&L announced a restructuring
program  related to certain of its operating units.   The  program  is
designed to reduce costs, improve operating efficiencies, and increase
shareholder  value  in  order to enable  AP&L  to  become  a  low-cost
producer.   The program includes reductions in the number of employees
and  the  consolidation  of  offices and facilities.   In  1994,  AP&L
recorded  restructuring  charges  of  $12.5  million.  These   charges
primarily  include employee severance costs related  to  the  expected
termination of approximately 696 employees.  As of December 31,  1994,
35  AP&L  employees were terminated under the program at  a  severance
cost of $0.3 million.


NOTE 13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     AP&L's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations with the peak
period occurring during the third quarter.  Operating results for  the
four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                              Operating    Operating     Net
                               Revenues     Income      Income
                                       (In Thousands)
        1994:                                             
          First Quarter        $371,091    $ 44,674     $26,388
          Second Quarter       $414,901    $ 59,581     $41,763
          Third Quarter        $470,770    $ 56,163     $36,630
          Fourth Quarter       $333,980    $ 56,215     $37,482
        1993:                                             
          First Quarter        $346,740    $ 36,961     $66,081
          Second Quarter       $383,651    $ 53,332     $34,572
          Third Quarter        $519,822    $101,484     $81,677
          Fourth Quarter       $341,355    $ 44,445     $22,967


     See  Note  1  for  information regarding  the  recording  of  the
     cumulative  effect  of  the  change in accounting  principle  for
     unbilled revenues in January 1993.





(1)  Includes  long-term  debt  (excluding currently  maturing  debt),
     preferred  stock with sinking fund, and noncurrent capital  lease
     obligations.

      See  Notes 1, 3, and 10 for the effect of accounting changes  in
1993.


                      1994        1993        1992         1991        1990
                                       (Dollars in Thousands)
Operating Revenues:                                                     
 Residential        $506,160    $528,734    $476,090     $494,375    $484,359
 Commercial          307,296     306,742     291,367      289,291     283,971
 Industrial          338,988     336,856     325,569      324,632     331,929
 Governmental         16,698      16,670      17,700       19,731      19,599
                  ----------  ----------  ----------   ----------  ----------
  Total retail     1,169,142   1,189,002   1,110,726    1,128,029   1,119,858
 Sales for resale    395,234     379,480     385,028      373,735     339,366
 Other                26,366      23,086      25,375       26,506      22,184
                  ----------  ----------  ----------   ----------  ----------
  Total           $1,590,742  $1,591,568  $1,521,129   $1,528,270  $1,481,408
                  ==========  ==========  ==========   ==========  ==========
                                                                        
Billed Electric Energy
 Sales (Millions of KWH):
 Residential           5,522       5,680       5,102        5,564       5,401
 Commercial            4,147       4,067       3,841        3,967       3,821
 Industrial            5,941       5,690       5,509        5,565       5,532
 Governmental            231         230         248          290         285
                      ------      ------      ------       ------      ------
  Total retail        15,841      15,667      14,700       15,386      15,039
 Sales for resale     15,497      13,950      15,413       16,087      13,618
                      ------      ------      ------       ------      ------
  Total               31,338      29,617      30,113       31,473      28,657
                      ======      ======      ======       ======      ======


                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                     Gulf States Utilities Company
                                   
                                   
                                   
                       1994 Financial Statements
                                   
                                   
                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
                              DEFINITIONS


      Certain  abbreviations  or  acronyms  used  in  GSU's  Financial
Statements, Notes to Financial Statements, and Management's  Financial
Discussion and Analysis are defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym            Term

AFUDC                       Allowance    for   Funds    Used    During
                            Construction

AP&L                        Arkansas Power & Light Company

Cajun                       Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.

DOE                         United States Department of Energy

Entergy or System           Entergy   Corporation  and   its   various
                            direct and indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Operations          Entergy Operations, Inc., a subsidiary  of
                            Entergy  that has operating responsibility
                            for    Grand    Gulf   1,   River    Bend,
                            Waterford  3,  and  Arkansas  Nuclear  One
                            Steam Electric Generating Station

Entergy Power               Entergy  Power,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary   of
                            Entergy  Corporation that markets capacity
                            and   energy   for  resale  from   certain
                            generating  facilities to  other  parties,
                            principally non-affiliates

Entergy Services            Entergy Services, Inc.

EPAct                       The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                        Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC                        Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

GSU                         Gulf  States Utilities Company  (including
                            wholly   owned  subsidiaries   -   Varibus
                            Corporation,  GSG&T, Inc., Prudential  Oil
                            and  Gas, Inc., and Southern Gulf  Railway
                            Company)

KWH                         Kilowatt-Hour(s)

LP&L                        Louisiana Power & Light Company

LPSC                        Louisiana Public Service Commission

Money Pool                  Entergy  Money Pool, which allows  certain
                            System  companies to borrow from, or  lend
                            to, certain other System companies

MP&L                        Mississippi Power & Light Company
                     
Merger                      The  combination  transaction  consummated
                            on  December 31, 1993, by which GSU became
                            a  subsidiary  of Entergy Corporation  and
                            Entergy   Corporation  became  a  Delaware
                            corporation

NOPSI                       New Orleans Public Service Inc.

PUCT                        Public Utility Commission of Texas

Rate Cap                    The  level  of retail electric base  rates
                            in  effect at December 31, 1993,  for  the
                            Louisiana  retail  jurisdiction,  and  the
                            level  in effect prior to the Texas Cities
                            Rate   Settlement  for  the  Texas  retail
                            jurisdiction,  that may  not  be  exceeded
                            for  the   five  years following  December
                            31, 1993

River Bend                  River   Bend   Steam  Electric  Generating
                            Station (nuclear), owned 70% by GSU

RUS                         Rural   Utility  Services  (formerly   the
                            Rural  Electrification  Administration  or
                            "REA")

SEC                         Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                        Statement    of    Financial    Accounting
                            Standards promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                    SFAS   106,  "Employers'  Accounting   for
                            Postretirement   Benefits    Other    Than
                            Pensions"

SFAS 109                    SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System or Entergy           Entergy   Corporation  and   its   various
                            direct and indirect subsidiaries

System Agreement            Agreement, effective January 1,  1983,  as
                            amended   among   the   System   operating
                            companies  relating  to  the  sharing   of
                            generating   capacity  and   other   power
                            resources

System operating companies  AP&L,   GSU,   LP&L,  MP&L,   and   NOPSI,
                            collectively




                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
                         REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


      The management of Gulf States Utilities Company has prepared and
is  responsible  for  the financial statements and  related  financial
information  included herein.  The financial statements are  based  on
generally   accepted  accounting  principles.   Financial  information
included  elsewhere  in this report is consistent with  the  financial
statements.

       To   meet   its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  financial
information,  management maintains and enforces a system  of  internal
accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance,
on  a  cost-effective  basis,  as to the integrity,  objectivity,  and
reliability  of  the financial records, and as to  the  protection  of
assets.   This system includes communication through written  policies
and  procedures,  an employee Code of Conduct, and  an  organizational
structure that provides for appropriate division of responsibility and
the  training  of  personnel.   This  system  is  also  tested  by   a
comprehensive internal audit program.

       The   independent  public  accountants  provide  an   objective
assessment  of the degree to which management meets its responsibility
for  fairness  of  financial reporting.  They regularly  evaluate  the
system  of  internal accounting controls and perform  such  tests  and
other  procedures  as  they deem necessary to  reach  and  express  an
opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management  believes that these policies and procedures  provide
reasonable assurance that its operations are carried out with  a  high
standard of business conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                     /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                         GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    Senior Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer



                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
                   AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                   
                                   
      The  Entergy  Corporation  Board of Directors'  Audit  Committee
functions  as  the Audit Committee for Gulf States Utilities  Company.
The  Audit  Committee  is  comprised of four directors,  who  are  not
officers  of GSU:  H. Duke Shackelford (Chairman), Lucie J. Fjeldstad,
Dr.  Norman C. Francis, and James R. Nichols.  The committee held four
meetings during 1994.

     The Audit Committee oversees GSU's financial reporting process on
behalf of the Board of Directors and provides reasonable assurance  to
the   Board  that  sufficient  operating,  accounting,  and  financial
controls  are in existence and are adequately reviewed by programs  of
internal and external audits.

      The  Audit Committee discussed with Entergy's internal  auditors
and  the independent public accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.) the
overall scope and specific plans for their respective audits, as  well
as  GSU's  financial  statements and the adequacy  of  GSU's  internal
controls.   The committee met, together and separately, with Entergy's
internal   auditors   and  independent  public  accountants,   without
management  present,  to discuss the results of  their  audits,  their
evaluation  of  GSU's internal controls, and the  overall  quality  of
GSU's  financial  reporting.   The  meetings  also  were  designed  to
facilitate  and  encourage  any  private  communication  between   the
committee and the internal auditors or independent public accountants.



                                   /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                   H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                   Chairman, Audit Committee


                                   
                 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Gulf States Utilities Company

      We  have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Gulf  States
Utilities  Company as of December 31, 1994 and 1993  and  the  related
statements of income (loss), retained earnings and paid-in-capital and
cash  flows  for each of the three years in the period ended  December
31,  1994.  These financial statements are the responsibility  of  the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on
these financial statements based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      As  discussed in Note 13 to the financial statements, the common
stock of the Company was acquired on December 31, 1993.

      In  our  opinion,  the financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position  of
the Company as of December 31, 1994 and  1993,  and the results of its
operations  and  its  cash  flows for each of the three years  in  the
period  ended December 31, 1994 in conformity  with generally accepted
accounting principles.

      As  discussed  in  Note 2 to the financial statements,  the  net
amount  of  capitalized costs for River Bend Unit I Nuclear Generating
Plant  (River  Bend)  exceed  those costs  currently  being  recovered
through  rates.  At December 31, 1994, approximately $685  million  is
not  currently  being recovered through rates.  If current  regulatory
and court orders are not modified, a write-off of all or a portion  of
such  costs may be required.  Additionally, as discussed in Note 2  to
the financial statements, other rate-related contingencies exist which
may  result in   refunds of revenues previously collected.  The extent
of  such  write-off  of  capitalized River Bend  costs  or  refunds of
revenues  previously collected, if any, will not be  determined  until
appropriate  rate proceedings and court appeals have  been  concluded.
Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements do not include  any
adjustments  or  provision for write-off or refund that  might  result
from the outcome of these uncertainties.

     As discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements, civil actions
have  been  initiated  against the Company  to,  among  other  things,
recover the co-owner's investment in River Bend and to annul the River
Bend  Joint  Ownership  Participation and  Operating  Agreement.   The
ultimate outcome of these proceedings cannot presently be determined.

      As discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, in 1993, the
Company  adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.  109,
"Accounting  for  Income  Taxes".  As discussed  in  Note  10  to  the
financial  statements,  the  Company adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting    Standards   No.   106,   "Employers'   Accounting    for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", as of January  1,  1993.
As   discussed  in  Note  1  to  the  financial  statements,   as   of
January  1,  1993,  the  Company began accruing  revenues  for  energy
delivered to customers but not yet billed.  As discussed in Note 1  to
the financial statements, the Company changed its accounting for power
plant materials and supplies as of January 1, 1992.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995, except for the last paragraph of 
"Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities" in
Note 2, as to which the date is March 20, 1995
                                   

              
              GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                      BALANCE SHEETS
                         ASSETS
                                                                                
                                                               December 31,
                                                            1994         1993
                                                              (In Thousands)
                                                                                
Utility Plant:         
  Electric                                               $6,842,726   $6,825,989
  Natural gas                                                44,505       42,786
  Steam products                                             77,307       75,689
  Property under capital leases                              82,914       86,039
  Construction work in progress                              96,176       50,080
  Nuclear fuel under capital leases                          80,042       94,828
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                          7,223,670    7,175,411
  Less - accumulated depreciation and amortization        2,504,826    2,323,804
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Utility plant - net                            4,718,844    4,851,607
                                                         ----------    ---------
                             
Other Property and Investments:                                      
  Decommissioning trust fund                                 21,309       17,873
  Other - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)            29,315       29,360
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                             50,624       47,233
                                                         ----------    ---------
                                                                  
Current Assets:                                                           
  Cash and cash equivalents:                                              
    Cash                                                      8,063        3,012
    Temporary cash investments - at cost,                                  
      which approximates market                       
     Associated companies                                     5,085            -
     Other                                                   91,496      258,337
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total cash and cash equivalents                  104,644      261,349
  Accounts receivable:                                             
    Customer (less allowance for doubtful accounts                    
      of $0.7 million in 1994 and $2.4 million in 1993)     167,745      117,369
    Associated companies                                     12,732            -
    Other                                                    20,706       18,371
    Accrued unbilled revenues                                39,470       32,572
  Deferred fuel costs                                         6,314        5,883
  Accumulated deferred income taxes                          49,457            -
  Fuel inventory                                             25,784       23,448
  Materials and supplies - at average cost                   90,054       86,831
  Rate deferrals                                            100,478       90,775
  Prepayments and other                                      13,754       48,948
                                                         ----------   ----------
           Total                                            631,138      685,546
                                                         ----------   ----------
                             

Deferred Debits and Other Assets:                               
  Regulatory Assets:                                                   
    Rate deferrals                                          506,974      638,015
    SFAS 109 regulatory asset - net                         426,358      432,411
    Unamortized loss on reacquired debt                      63,994       70,970
    Other regulatory assets                                  35,168       40,690
  Long-term receivables                                     264,752      218,079
  Other                                                     145,609      152,800
                                                         ----------   ----------
           Total                                          1,442,855    1,552,965
                                                         ----------   ----------
                             
           TOTAL                                         $6,843,461   $7,137,351
                                                         ==========   ==========
          
                                                            
See Notes to Financial Statements.                   
                                                                   
                                                                      
              GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                      BALANCE SHEETS
             CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                               December 31,
                                                             1994         1993
                                                              (In Thousands)
                                                             
Capitalization:                                                            
  Common stock, no par value, authorized                                    
    200,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding                            
    100 shares in 1994 and 1993                            $114,055     $114,055
  Paid-in capital                                         1,152,336    1,152,304
  Retained earnings                                         264,626      666,401
                                                         ----------    ---------
          
           Total common shareholder's equity              1,531,017    1,932,760
  Preference stock                                          150,000      150,000
  Preferred stock:                                                           
    Without sinking fund                                    136,444      136,444
    With sinking fund                                        94,934      101,004
  Long-term debt                                          2,318,417    2,368,639
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                          4,230,812    4,688,847
                                                         ----------    ---------
                             
Other Noncurrent Liabilities:                                          
  Obligations under capital leases                          125,691      152,359
  Other                                                      68,753       65,259
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                            194,444      217,618
                                                         ----------    ---------
                            
Current Liabilities:                                                      
  Currently maturing long-term debt                          50,425          425
  Accounts payable:                                                        
    Associated companies                                     31,722        2,745
    Other                                                   140,975      109,840
  Customer deposits                                          22,216       21,958
  Taxes accrued                                              12,478       22,856
  Interest accrued                                           55,327       59,516
  Nuclear refueling reserve                                  10,117       22,356
  Obligations under capital leases                           37,265       41,713
  Reserve for rate refund                                    56,972            -
  Other                                                     111,963       97,741
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                            529,460      379,150
                                                         ----------    ---------
                            
Deferred Credits:                                                          
  Accumulated deferred income taxes                       1,100,396    1,062,180
  Accumulated deferred investment tax credits               199,428      255,274
  Deferred River Bend finance charges                        82,406      106,765
  Other                                                     506,515      427,517
                                                         ----------    ---------
           Total                                          1,888,745    1,851,736
                                                         ----------    ---------
                            
Commitments and Contingencies (Notes 2, 8,  and 9)                        
                                                                         
           TOTAL                                         $6,843,461   $7,137,351
                                                         ==========   ==========
           
                                                                       
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                      

 
                
                                                 
                                   
                     
                      GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


     Liquidity is important to GSU due to the capital intensive nature
of  its  business,  which  requires large  investments  in  long-lived
assets. While large capital expenditures for the construction  of  new
generating  capacity  are  not currently  planned,  GSU  does  require
significant  capital  resources for the periodic maturity  of  certain
series   of   debt  and  preferred  stock  and  ongoing   construction
expenditures.   Net  cash flow from operations totaled  $326  million,
$255  million, and $348 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
Cash  flow from operations in 1993 includes nonrecurring items related
to  the payment of $169.3 million as a result of the settlement  of  a
purchased   power   dispute.   In  recent  years,  this   cash   flow,
supplemented   by   cash  on  hand,  has  been  sufficient   to   meet
substantially  all  investing  and financing  requirements,  including
capital  expenditures, dividends, and debt/preferred stock maturities.
GSU's  ability  to  fund  these capital requirements  with  cash  from
operations, results in part from continued efforts to reduce costs  as
well  as collections under River Bend rate phase-in plan of previously
deferred amounts.  (In the income statement, these revenue collections
are   offset  by  the  amortization  of  previously  deferred   costs;
therefore,  there  is no effect on net income.) The  River  Bend  rate
phase-in  plan  will  continue to contribute to  GSU's  cash  position
through  1998.   See Note 2 for additional information on  GSU's  rate
phase-in  plan.   Further, GSU has the ability to meet future  capital
requirements  through future debt and preference stock  issuances,  as
discussed  below.   See  Note 8 for additional  information  on  GSU's
capital  and  refinancing requirements in 1995 - 1997.  Also,  to  the
extent  current  market interest and dividend  rates  allow,  GSU  may
continue  to  refinance high-cost debt and preferred  stock  prior  to
maturity.

      In  1994,  GSU paid to Entergy Corporation approximately  $289.1
million of cash dividends on its common stock.  Prior to 1994, GSU had
not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since June 1986.

      On  March  20, 1995, the PUCT ordered GSU to implement  a  $72.9
million  annual  base rate reduction for the period  March  31,  1994,
through September 1, 1994, decreasing to an annual base rate reduction
of  $52.9  million  after September 1, 1994.  In accordance  with  the
Merger agreement, the rate reduction is applied retroactively to March
31, 1994.  As a result, GSU recorded a $57 million reserve for reserve
for rate refund in 1994.  See Note 2 for additional information.

     Earnings coverage tests and bondable property additions limit the
amount of first mortgage bonds and preferred stock that GSU can issue.
As  a result of the charges recorded in 1994 as discussed in Notes  12
and  13, GSU was precluded from issuing first mortgage bonds under its
earnings  coverage test as of December 31, 1994.  As of  December  31,
1994,  GSU was unable to issue any additional preferred stock.   There
are  no limitations on the issuance of preference stock.  However, GSU
has  the ability to issue approximately $578 million of first mortgage
bonds   against  the  retirement  of  first  mortgage  bonds   without
satisfying an earnings coverage test.

      See  Notes 5 and 6 for information on GSU's financing activities
and Note 4 for information on GSU's short-term borrowings and lines of
credit.

      See  Notes  2  and 8 for information regarding  litigation  with
Cajun, and River Bend rate appeals.  Substantial write-offs or charges
resulting  from  adverse  rulings in these  matters  could  result  in
substantial  additional net losses being reported by GSU in  1995  and
subsequent periods, with resulting substantial adverse adjustments  to
common  shareholder's  equity.   Also,  adverse  resolution  of  these
matters  could  adversely  affect GSU's ability  to  continue  to  pay
dividends  and  obtain  financing, which could in  turn  affect  GSU's
liquidity.

         

                                   

                                                                
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                         

                                   



                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

     GSU incurred a net loss for the year 1994 due primarily to write-
offs   and   charges  associated  with  the  resolution   of   certain
contingencies  and  additional Merger-related costs  aggregating  $137
million  (see  Note  13), a base rate reduction ordered  by  the  PUCT
applied  retroactively to March 1994 (see Note 2),  and  restructuring
costs  (see  Note 12).  Net income decreased in 1993 due primarily  to
Merger-related charges recorded at year-end.  Also contributing to the
decrease  was  a  rate  refund and one-time credit  resulting  from  a
November  1993 rate settlement, the effect of implementing  SFAS  106,
and  the  impact  in  1992  of reducing a purchased  power  settlement
liability.  The decrease in net income was partially offset by the one-
time  recording of the cumulative effect of the change  in  accounting
principle  for  unbilled revenues and its ongoing effects.   Effective
January 1, 1993, GSU began accruing as revenues the charges for energy
delivered to customers but not yet billed.  Electric and gas  revenues
were previously recorded on a cycle-billing basis. Excluding the above
mentioned  items, net income for 1993 would have been $139.2  million,
an  increase  of  $29.6  million which is due primarily  to  increased
retail energy sales and decreased interest expense.

      Significant  factors  affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing  variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and  1992
are  discussed  under  "Revenues and Sales," "Expenses,"  and  "Other"
below.

Revenues and Sales

     Operating revenues decreased in 1994 due primarily to a base rate
reduction ordered by the PUCT applied retroactively to March 1994 (see
Note  2)  and lower retail fuel revenues partially offset by increased
wholesale  revenues  associated  with  higher  sales  for  resale  and
increased  retail  base revenue.  The decrease in retail  revenues  is
primarily  due to a decrease in fuel recovery revenue and  a  November
1993 rate reduction in Texas.  Energy sales increased due primarily to
higher  sales  for  resale as a result of GSU's participation  in  the
System power pool.

     Operating revenues were higher in 1993 due primarily to increased
residential  and  commercial energy sales resulting primarily  from  a
return  to more normal weather as compared to milder weather in  1992,
and  increased fuel adjustment revenues and collections of  previously
deferred River Bend costs, neither of which affects net income.  These
increases  were  partially offset by a refund and one-time  credit  to
Texas retail customers resulting from a rate settlement.

      See  "Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison," following
the  notes,  for information on operating revenues by source  and  KWH
sales.

Expenses

      Operating  expenses increased  in 1994 due primarily  to  higher
purchased   power   and  other  operation  and  maintenance  expenses,
partially  offset  by  lower fuel for electric  generation  and  fuel-
related  expense  and  lower  income  tax  expense.   Purchased  power
increased  in  1994  due to GSU's participation in  joint  dispatching
through the System power pool resulting from increased energy sales as
discussed above. In addition, the increase in purchased power  expense
in  1994  was also due to the recording of a provision for  refund  of
disallowed  purchased power costs resulting from a  Louisiana  Supreme
Court  ruling  (see  Note  2).  Fuel, fuel-related  expenses  and  gas
purchased  for resale decreased in  1994 primarily due  to  lower  gas
prices.


      Fuel for electric generation and fuel-related expenses increased
in  1993  due  primarily to a higher average per  unit  cost  for  gas
resulting  from increased gas prices in 1993 and increased generation,
primarily at River Bend.

      Other  operation and maintenance expenses increased in 1994  due
primarily   to  charges  associated  with  certain  contingencies   as
discussed   in   Note   13,   additional  Merger-related   costs   and
restructuring costs as discussed in Note 12.

      Other  operation and maintenance expenses increased in 1993  due
primarily  to  $52.3 million of Merger-related charges  for  financial
investment advisor fees and early retirement and other severance  plan
provisions.  Charges  for  other  postemployment  benefits   increased
resulting  from the adoption of SFAS 106.  Amortization of amounts  in
accordance with the River Bend phase-in plan also increased.

      Income  taxes  decreased in 1994 due primarily to  lower  pretax
income resulting from the charges discussed above.

Other

      Other  miscellaneous income decreased due to  the  write-off  of
plant  held for future use in 1994 (see Note 13), establishment  of  a
reserve  related to the Cajun River Bend litigation (see Note 8),  the
write-off of previously disallowed rate deferrals, and obsolete  spare
parts,  partially offset by lower interest expense as a result of  the
continued refinancing of high-cost debt.

      Income  taxes  decreased in 1994 due primarily to   the  charges
discussed above.

     Other miscellaneous income decreased in 1993 due primarily to the
1992  effect  of  reducing a liability relating to a  purchased  power
settlement.   In  accordance with the settlement,  the  liability  was
based  upon  the  price of GSU common stock as of  the  November  1991
settlement  and was subsequently reduced as the price  of  GSU  common
stock increased.  Interest expense declined in 1993 as a result of the
continued refinancing of high-cost debt.



                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

       The   electric   utility  industry  is  becoming   increasingly
competitive and GSU is seeking to become a leading competitor  in  the
changing electric energy business.  Competition presents GSU with many
challenges.   The following have been identified by GSU as  its  major
competitive challenges.

                   Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
       Increasing  competition  in  the  utility  industry  brings  an
increased  need to stabilize or reduce retail rates. GSU   implemented
shared-savings  plans  as part of the Merger.  Recognizing  that  many
industrial customers have energy alternatives, GSU continues  to  work
with  these  customers  to  address their needs.   In  certain  cases,
competitive prices are negotiated, using variable rate designs.

      In connection with the Merger, GSU agreed with the LPSC and PUCT
to  a five-year Rate Cap on retail electric rates, and to pass through
to  retail customers the fuel savings and a certain percentage of  the
nonfuel  savings  created by the Merger.  Under  the  terms  of  their
respective  Merger agreements, the LPSC and PUCT have  reviewed  GSU's
base  rates  during  the  first  post-Merger  earnings  analysis   for
reasonableness  of  its return on equity. The  LPSC  ordered  a  $12.7
million annual rate reduction effective January 1, 1995.  GSU received
an injunction delaying implementation of $8.3 million of the reduction
and  on  January 1, 1995, reduced rates by $4.4 million.   The  entire
$12.7  million is being appealed.  On March 20, 1995, the PUCT ordered
a  $72.9  million annual base rate reduction for the period March  31,
1994,  through  September 1, 1994, decreasing to an annual  base  rate
reduction  of  $52.9 million after September 1, 1994.   In  accordance
with the Merger agreement, the rate reduction is applied retroactively
to  March  31,  1994.   The rate reduction is being  appealed  and  no
assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.  See
Note 2 for further information.

     See Note 2 for information on the settlement of several PUCT fuel
cost reviews and the continuing likelihood of future reviews.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
service  territory,  is  evolving.  Over  a  dozen  states  have  been
studying the concept of retail competition.  In April 1994, the  state
of  Michigan  agreed  to a five-year experiment  that  allows  limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  decision  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  the  FERC issued a notice of proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

     Cogeneration projects developed or considered by certain of GSU's
industrial customers over the last several years have resulted in  GSU
developing  and  securing  approval of  rates  lower  than  the  rates
previously   approved  by  the  PUCT  and  LPSC  for  such  industrial
customers.  Such rates are designed to retain such customers,  and  to
compete for and develop new loads, and do not presently recover  GSU's
full  cost  of  service.  The pricing agreements at non-full  cost  of
service based rates fully recover all related costs but provide only a
minimal  return.  Substantially all of such pricing agreements  expire
no  later than 1997.  In 1994, KWH sales to GSU's industrial customers
at  non-full cost of service rates, which make up approximately 28% of
the  total  industrial class, increased 13%.  Sales to  the  remaining
industrial customers increased 2%.
                                   
      In  the wholesale rate area, FERC approved in 1992, with certain
modifications,  the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  Entergy
Power to sell wholesale power at market-based rates and to provide  to
electric  utilities "open access" to the System's transmission  system
(subject  to  certain  requirements).  GSU was  later  added  to  this
filing.   On October 31, 1994, as amended on January 25, 1995, Entergy
Services  filed  with  FERC revised transmission tariffs  intended  to
provide  access  to  transmission service on the  same  or  comparable
basis,  terms, and conditions as the Entergy operating companies,  and
the  matter  is  pending.   Open access and market  pricing,  once  in
effect,  will increase marketing opportunities for GSU, but will  also
expose  GSU  to  the risk of loss of load or reduced revenues  due  to
competition with alternative suppliers.

      In light of the rate issues discussed above, GSU is aggressively
reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions that might  result
as  well  as  to  become more competitive.  In 1994, GSU  announced  a
restructuring program related to certain of its operating units.  This
program   is   designed  to  reduce  costs  and    improve   operating
efficiencies.  See Note 12 for further information.  Also, in response
to  an increasingly competitive environment, GSU is continuing to work
with the PUCT regarding integrated resource planning.

                       The Energy Policy Act of 1992
                                   
     The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering
the  way  Entergy  and  the  rest  of the  electric  utility  industry
operate.  The EPAct encourages competition and affords utilities  the
opportunities,  and  the  risks, associated  with  an  open  and  more
competitive  market  environment.  The EPAct creates  exemptions  from
regulation under the Holding Company Act and creates a class of exempt
wholesale generators consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities
that  are  owners and operators of facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC  the authority to order investor-owned utilities, including  GSU,
to  transmit  power  and  energy to or for  wholesale  purchasers  and
sellers.   The  law creates the potential for electric  utilities  and
other  power  producers to gain increased access to  the  transmission
systems of other entities to facilitate wholesale sales.  Both GSU and
Entergy Power expect to compete in this market.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      See  Note  2  for  information on the possible material  adverse
effects  on GSU's financial condition and results of operations  as  a
result  of  substantial write-offs and/or refunds in  connection  with
outstanding  appeals and remands regarding approximately $1.4  billion
of  abeyed company-wide River Bend plant costs and approximately  $187
million  ($170  million  net  of  tax) of  Texas  retail  jurisdiction
deferred River Bend operating and carrying costs.

Entergy Corporation-GSU Merger

      The  acquisition of GSU by Entergy Corporation was  the  largest
electric  utility merger in United States history. Entergy expects  to
achieve  $850  million  in  fuel cost  savings  and  $670  million  in
operation and maintenance expense savings over ten years as  a  result
of the Merger.  For further information, see Note 2.

     See Note 8 for information on the bankruptcy proceedings of Cajun
and  litigation  with Cajun concerning Cajun's ownership  interest  in
River  Bend and the related possible material adverse effects on GSU's
financial condition.

Deregulated Portion of River Bend

      As  of  December 31, 1994, GSU had not recovered  a  significant
amount  of its investment in, or received any return associated  with,
the  portion of River Bend included in the deregulated asset  plan  in
Louisiana and the portion of River Bend placed in abeyance as part  of
the  Texas rate order which went into effect in July 1988. See Note  2
for  further information.  Future earnings will continue to be limited
as  long as the limited recovery of the investment and lack of  return
continue.

      For  the  year  ended December 31, 1994, GSU  recorded  revenues
resulting from the sale of electricity from the deregulated asset plan
of  approximately $34.1 million.  Operation and maintenance  expenses,
including  fuel,  were  approximately $30  million,  and  depreciation
expense  associated  with the deregulated asset  plan  investment  was
approximately $16.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.  For
the  year  ended  December 31, 1994, GSU recorded nonfuel  revenue  of
$32.5  million  (included in the $34.1 million  of  total  deregulated
asset  plan  revenue  discussed above) which, absent  the  deregulated
asset  plan,  would  not  have  been  realized.   The  operation   and
maintenance  expenses  and  depreciation  expense  allocated  to   the
deregulated  asset plan as detailed above would have been incurred  at
River  Bend  with or without the deregulated asset plan.   The  future
impact  of  the deregulated asset plan on GSU's results of  operations
and  financial  position will depend on River Bend's future  operating
costs,  the unit's efficiency and availability, and the future  market
for  energy  over  the remaining life of the unit.  Based  on  current
estimates of the factors discussed above, GSU anticipates that  future
revenues  from  the  deregulated asset plan  will  fully  recover  all
related costs.

Property Tax Exemptions

     Exemption from the payment of property taxes on River Bend, which
has been in effect for 10 years, will expire in December 1996.  GSU is
working with Louisiana local taxing authorities to determine the
method for calculating the amount of the property taxes to be paid
when the exemption expires.  GSU believes that any property taxes
allocated to its retail jurisdictions will be recovered from those
customers in rates.

Environmental Issues

      GSU  has  been  notified  by the U. S. Environmental  Protection
Agency  (EPA) that it has been designated as a potentially responsible
party  for the cleanup of sites on which GSU and others have  or  have
been  alleged  to  have disposed of material designated  as  hazardous
waste.    GSU  is  currently  negotiating  with  the  EPA  and   state
authorities  regarding the cleanup of some of  these  sites.   Several
class  action  and  other suits have been filed in state  and  federal
courts  seeking relief from GSU and others for damages caused  by  the
disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly
resulting from exposure on GSU premises.  While the amounts  at  issue
in the cleanup efforts and suits may be substantial, GSU believes that
its  results  of  operations  and  financial  condition  will  not  be
materially  affected  by the outcome of the suits.   See  Note  8  for
further information.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition  and  measurement of asset impairment.  Note  2  describes
regulatory assets of $170 million (net of tax) related to Texas retail
deferred River Bend operating and carrying costs.  Management believes
these  deferred  costs will be required to be written  off  under  the
provisions  of the new standard unless there are favorable  regulatory
or  court actions related to these costs prior to the adoption of  the
new  standard by GSU.  Certain other operations of GSU are potentially
affected by this standard, and any resulting write-offs will depend on
future operating costs, generating units' efficiency and availability,
and the future market for energy over the remaining life of the units.
Based on current estimates, GSU anticipates that future revenues  will
fully recover the costs of such operations.

      Continued  Application of SFAS 71 - GSU's  financial  statements
currently  reflect,  for  the most part, assets  and  costs  based  on
current cost-based ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,
"Accounting  for  the  Effects of Certain Types  of  Regulation."   As
discussed  above, the electric utility industry is changing and  these
changes could possibly result in the discontinuance of the application
of SFAS 71, which would result in the elimination of regulatory assets
and liabilities.  See Note 1 for further information.

      Accounting  for  Decommissioning Costs - The FASB  is  currently
reviewing  the accounting for decommissioning of nuclear plants.  This
project  could  possibly change GSU's, as well as the  entire  utility
industry's,  accounting for such costs.  For further information,  see
Note 8.



                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      GSU  maintains  accounts  in  accordance  with  FERC  and  other
regulatory guidelines.  Certain previously reported amounts have  been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      Prior  to  January  1,  1993, GSU recognized  electric  and  gas
revenues  when billed.  To provide a better matching of  revenues  and
expenses,  effective  January  1,  1993,  GSU  adopted  a  change   in
accounting principle to provide for accrual of the nonfuel portion  of
estimated unbilled revenues.  The cumulative effect of this accounting
change  as  of  January  1,  1993 for the Texas  retail  jurisdiction,
wholesale  jurisdiction, and gas department increased 1993 net  income
by  $10.7  million, net of related income taxes of $6.9 million.   Had
this  new  accounting method been in effect during  prior  years,  net
income  before  the cumulative effect would not have  been  materially
different from that shown in the accompanying financial statements.

      In  the  Louisiana retail jurisdiction, the LPSC issued  a  rate
order,  effective  March  1, 1991, which required  GSU  to  defer  the
initial  effect  when and if GSU changed its accounting  for  unbilled
revenue.   The  amount  of unbilled revenues in the  Louisiana  retail
jurisdiction  was $16.6 million at January 1, 1993.   Because  of  the
LPSC  rate  order,  GSU recorded a deferred credit of  $16.6  million.
There  was  no cumulative effect of the change recorded in operations.
If  the LPSC order were to be revised, the net income effect would  be
$10.1  million, net of related income taxes of $6.5 million.   Changes
in  unbilled revenues in the Louisiana retail jurisdiction  subsequent
to  January  1,  1993 have been recorded in operations.   See  Note  2
regarding  recent  LPSC rate actions regarding the  deferred  unbilled
revenues.

      GSU's wholesale and Louisiana retail rate schedules include fuel
adjustment clauses that allow deferral of fuel costs until such  costs
are  reflected  in  the  related  revenues.   Although  deferred  fuel
accounting is also practiced in Texas, the Texas retail rate schedules
include  a  fixed fuel factor approved by the PUCT, which  remains  in
effect   until  changed  as  part  of  a  general  rate   case,   fuel
reconciliation, or a fixed fuel factor filing.  Reconcilable fuel  and
purchased  power costs in excess of those included in  base  rates  or
recovered  through fuel adjustment clauses are deferred  (or  accrued)
until such costs are billed (or credited) to customers.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of
utility  plant retired or removed, plus the applicable removal  costs,
less  salvage,  is charged to accumulated depreciation.   Maintenance,
repairs,   and  minor  replacement  costs  are  charged  to  operating
expenses.  Substantially all of GSU's utility plant is subject to  the
lien of its mortgage indenture.

      Total GSU net electric utility plant in service of $4.50 billion
as  of  December 31, 1994 includes $3.22 billion of production  plant,
$.44 billion of transmission plant, $.69 billion of distribution plant
and $.15 billion of other plant.

      Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  basis  at  rates
based  on  the  estimated service lives and cost  of  removal  of  the
various  classes  of  property.  Depreciation  provisions  on  average
depreciable property approximated 2.7% in 1994, 1993, and 1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included in rates.  GSU's AFUDC rates were as follows:

       January 1, 1992 - March 31, 1992         11.75%
       April 1, 1992 - March 31, 1993           10.75%
       April 1, 1993 - December 31, 1993        10.50%
       1994 effective composite rate            10.20%

Jointly-Owned Facilities

      GSU  owns  undivided  interests in three jointly-owned  electric
generating stations and records the investment and expenses associated
with  these  generating  stations  to  the  extent  of  its  ownership
interest.   As of December 31, 1994, GSU's investment and  accumulated
depreciation in these generating stations were as follows:

                                    Total
                           Fuel    Megawatt                         Accumulated
   Generating Stations     Type   Capability  Ownership  Investment Depreciation
                                                              (In Thousands)
   River Bend Unit 1      Nuclear     936        70%      $3,080,019   $617,002
   Roy S. Nelson Unit 6    Coal       550        70%      $  390,033   $145,897
   Big Cajun 2, Unit 3     Coal       540        42%      $  219,788   $ 74,442

     See  Note  8  for  information regarding the  current  status  of
     Cajun's 30% undivided ownership interest in River Bend.

Income Taxes

      GSU,  its  parent,  and affiliates file a  consolidated  federal
income tax return.  Income taxes are allocated to GSU in proportion to
its  contribution to the consolidated taxable income.  SEC regulations
require that no Entergy Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it
would  have  had  a separate income tax return been  filed.   Deferred
taxes  are  recorded for all temporary differences  between  book  and
taxable  income.   Investment tax credits are deferred  and  amortized
based  upon  the  average  useful life  of  the  related  property  in
accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note 3, in  1993  GSU
changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

Inventories

      GSU's fuel inventories (fuel oil and natural gas) are valued  at
weighted average cost.

Accounting for Power Plant Materials and Supplies

      During  the  first quarter of 1992, accounting  procedures  were
changed  to  include in inventory, power plant materials and  supplies
previously expensed or capitalized as plant in service.  GSU  believed
this change provided a better matching of costs with related revenues.
The change resulted from recommendations during audits by FERC and the
LPSC,  in addition to a general change in industry practice.  The  pro
forma  effect of retroactive application on any period prior  to  1992
was not determinable as, prior to this change, GSU did not perform the
physical inventory counts necessary to determine inventory balances in
prior periods.  The effect of the change was to increase materials and
supplies  by  $76.6  million, of which $41.1 million  associated  with
GSU's  Texas and Louisiana retail jurisdictions was deferred,  and  to
decrease  amounts previously capitalized, primarily plant in  service,
by   $29   million.    Amounts  deferred  for  the  Louisiana   retail
jurisdiction   are   currently  being   amortized   to   income   over
approximately  seven  years,  through  February  1998,  while  amounts
deferred  for  the  Texas  retail  jurisdiction  are  expected  to  be
amortized  to income in future years.  The cumulative effect  of  this
accounting  change  as  of  January 1,  1992,  which  relates  to  the
operations   on  which  GSU  has  discontinued  regulatory  accounting
principles,  amounted to $6.5 million before the  related  income  tax
effect of $2.5 million.

Reacquired Debt

      The  premiums  and  costs associated with  reacquired  debt  are
amortized over the life of the related new issuances for the  portions
of  the  business accounted for in accordance with generally  accepted
accounting principles for regulated enterprises.

      During 1992, GSU extinguished over $1 billion of long-term  debt
through refinancings.  A loss of $81.8 million was recorded associated
with  the  extinguished debt of which $67.2 million of  the  loss  was
deferred,  representing the portion of GSU's operations  allocable  to
the  Texas  and Louisiana retail jurisdictions, and began to  amortize
that  amount over the life of the new debt sold to retire the existing
debt.   A  loss  of $9.6 million, net of related income  taxes  of  $5
million,  was  charged  to income in 1992 as  an  extraordinary  item.
Further,  refinancings of long-term debt during 1993  resulted  in  an
extraordinary  loss  of $1.3 million, net of $.7  million  of  related
taxes.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      GSU  considers  all unrestricted highly liquid debt  instruments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and  a modified regulatory environment.  GSU's  financial
statements,  for  the most part, currently reflect  assets  and  costs
based on current cost-based ratemaking regulations, in accordance with
SFAS. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."
Continued  applicability  of  SFAS 71 to  GSU's  financial  statements
requires  that  rates set by an independent regulator  on  a  cost  of
service  basis  (including a reasonable rate  of  return  on  invested
capital) can actually be charged to and collected from customers.

      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation, or a change in the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As  of December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future,  GSU's
financial  statements continue to follow SFAS 71, with the  exceptions
noted below.

SFAS 101

       SFAS   101,  "Regulated  Enterprises  -  Accounting   for   the
Discontinuation  of Application of FASB Statement No.  71,"  specifies
how an enterprise that ceases to meet the criteria for application  of
SFAS 71, to all or part of its operations should report that event  in
its  financial  statements.   GSU discontinued  regulatory  accounting
principles  for  its wholesale jurisdiction and steam department,  and
the Louisiana deregulated portion of River Bend, during 1989 and 1991,
respectively.

Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined  by GSU using available market information and  appropriate
valuation  methodologies.  However, considerable judgment is  required
in  developing the estimates of fair value.  Therefore, estimates  are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that GSU could realize in  a
current  market  exchange.  In addition, gains or losses  realized  on
financial instruments may be reflected in future rates and not  accrue
to the benefit of stockholders.

      GSU  considers  the  carrying amounts of  financial  instruments
classified  as  current  assets and liabilities  to  be  a  reasonable
estimate  of their fair value because of the short maturity  of  these
instruments.   See  Notes  5,  6, and  8  for  additional  fair  value
disclosure.

      The  System adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting  for
Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January
1,  1994.  As a result, as of December 31, 1994, GSU recorded  on  the
balance   sheet   an   additional  reduction  of   $0.9   million   in
decommissioning trust funds, representing the amount by which the fair
value  of  the  securities  held in such  funds  exceeds  the  amounts
recovered in rates for decommissioning and deposited in the funds  and
the  related earnings on the amounts deposited.  Due to the regulatory
treatment  for  decommissioning trust funds, the  System  recorded  an
offsetting amount in unrealized losses on investment securities  as  a
regulatory asset.


NOTE 2. RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

River Bend

      In May 1988, the PUCT granted GSU a permanent increase in annual
revenues of $59.9 million resulting from the inclusion in rate base of
approximately $1.6 billion of company-wide River Bend plant investment
and  approximately  $182 million of related Texas retail  jurisdiction
deferred River Bend costs (Allowed Deferrals).  In addition, the  PUCT
disallowed as imprudent $63.5 million of company-wide River Bend plant
costs   and   placed  in  abeyance,  with  no  finding  of   prudence,
approximately $1.4 billion of company-wide River Bend plant investment
and  approximately $157 million of Texas retail jurisdiction  deferred
River  Bend operating and carrying costs.  The PUCT affirmed that  the
ultimate  rate  treatment of such amounts would be subject  to  future
demonstration  of  the prudence of such costs.   GSU  and  intervening
parties  appealed  this order (Rate Appeal) and GSU filed  a  separate
rate  case  asking  that the abeyed River Bend plant  costs  be  found
prudent  (Separate Rate Case).  Intervening parties filed  suit  in  a
Texas district court to prohibit the Separate Rate Case.  The district
court's  decision was ultimately appealed to the Texas Supreme  Court,
which  ruled  in 1990 that the prudence of the purported abeyed  costs
could  not  be relitigated in a separate rate proceeding.   The  Texas
Supreme Court's decision stated that all issues relating to the merits
of  the original PUCT order, including the prudence of all River Bend-
related costs, should be addressed in the Rate Appeal.

      In  October  1991, the Texas district court in the  Rate  Appeal
issued  an  order holding that, while it was clear the  PUCT  made  an
error  in assuming it could set aside $1.4 billion of the total  costs
of  River  Bend  and  consider them in a later proceeding,  the  PUCT,
nevertheless,  found that GSU had not met its burden of proof  related
to  the  amounts  placed in abeyance.  The court also ruled  that  the
Allowed  Deferrals  should not be included in rate  base.   The  court
further  stated  that  the PUCT had erred in reducing  GSU's  deferred
costs  by $1.50 for each $1.00 of revenue collected under the  interim
rate  increases authorized in 1987 and 1988.  The court  remanded  the
case  to the PUCT with instructions as to the proper handling  of  the
Allowed  Deferrals.   GSU's motion for rehearing was  denied  and,  in
December 1991, GSU filed an appeal of the October 1991 district  court
order.   The PUCT also appealed the October 1991 district court order,
which served to supersede the district court's judgment, rendering  it
unenforceable under Texas law.

      In  August 1994, the Texas Third District Court of Appeals  (the
Appellate Court) affirmed the district court's decision that there was
substantial  evidence  to  support the PUCT's  1988  decision  not  to
include  the  abeyed  construction costs in GSU's  rate  base.   While
acknowledging  that  the  PUCT  had exceeded  its  authority  when  it
attempted to defer a decision on the inclusion of those costs in  rate
base  in  order to allow GSU a further opportunity to demonstrate  the
prudence  of  those  costs in a subsequent proceeding,  the  Appellate
Court found that GSU had suffered no harm or lack of due process as  a
result  of  the PUCT's error.  Accordingly, the Appellate  Court  held
that  the PUCT's action had the effect of disallowing the company-wide
$1.4 billion of River Bend construction costs for ratemaking purposes.
In  its August 1994 opinion, the Appellate Court also held that  GSU's
deferred  operating and maintenance costs associated with the  allowed
portion  of River Bend should be included in rate base and that  GSU's
deferred  River Bend carrying costs included in the Allowed  Deferrals
should  also  be included in rate base.  The Appellate Court's  August
1994 opinion affirmed the PUCT's original order in this case.

      The  Appellate  Court's August 1994 opinion was entered  by  two
judges, with a third judge dissenting.  The dissenting opinion  states
that  the  result of the majority opinion is, among other  things,  to
deprive  GSU of due process at the PUCT because the PUCT never reached
a finding on the $1.4 billion of construction costs.

      In  October  1994, the Appellate Court denied GSU's  motion  for
rehearing on the August 1994 opinion as to the $1.4 billion  in  River
Bend construction costs and other matters.  GSU appealed the Appellate
Court's decision to the Texas Supreme Court, where it is pending.

      As  of  December 31, 1994, the River Bend plant costs disallowed
for  retail  ratemaking purposes in Texas, the River Bend plant  costs
held  in  abeyance,  and  the  related  operating  and  carrying  cost
deferrals  totaled  (net  of taxes) approximately  $13  million,  $280
million  (both  net of depreciation), and $170 million,  respectively.
Allowed  Deferrals were approximately $107 million, net of  taxes  and
amortization, as of December 31, 1994.  GSU estimates it has collected
approximately $158 million of revenues as of December 31, 1994,  as  a
result  of the originally ordered rate treatment by the PUCT of  these
deferred  costs.  If recovery of the Allowed Deferrals is not  upheld,
future revenues based upon those allowed deferrals could also be lost,
and  no assurance can be given as to whether or not refunds of revenue
received  based upon such deferred costs previously recorded  will  be
required.

      No  assurance  can be given as to the timing or outcome  of  the
remands  or appeals described above.  Pending further developments  in
these cases, GSU has made no write-offs or reserves for the River Bend-
related  costs.   Management believes, based  on  advice  from  Clark,
Thomas  & Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record
in  the Rate Appeal, that it is reasonably possible that the case will
be  remanded to the PUCT, and the PUCT will be allowed to rule on  the
prudence  of the abeyed River Bend plant costs.  Rate Caps imposed  by
the PUCT's regulatory approval of the Merger could result in GSU being
unable  to  use the full amount of a favorable decision to immediately
increase  rates;  however,  a  favorable decision  could  permit  some
increases and/or limit or prevent decreases during the period the Rate
Caps  are  in effect.  At this time, management and legal counsel  are
unable  to  predict the amount, if any, of the abeyed  and  previously
disallowed River Bend plant costs that ultimately may be disallowed by
the  PUCT.  A net of tax write-off as of December 31, 1994, of  up  to
$293 million could be required based on an ultimate adverse ruling  by
the PUCT on the abeyed and disallowed costs.

     In prior proceedings, the PUCT has held that the original cost of
nuclear  power  plants will be included in rates to the  extent  those
costs were prudently incurred.  Based upon the PUCT's prior decisions,
management  believes  that  its  River Bend  construction  costs  were
prudently  incurred and that it is reasonably possible  that  it  will
recover in rate base, or otherwise through means such as a deregulated
asset  plan, all or substantially all of the abeyed River  Bend  plant
costs.   However,  management also recognizes that  it  is  reasonably
possible  that  not  all  of the abeyed River  Bend  plant  costs  may
ultimately be recovered.

     As part of its direct case in the Separate Rate Case, GSU filed a
cost  reconciliation study prepared by Sandlin Associates,  management
consultants  with  expertise in the cost  analysis  of  nuclear  power
plants, which supports the reasonableness of the River Bend costs held
in  abeyance  by the PUCT.  This reconciliation study determined  that
approximately  82% of the River Bend cost increase  above  the  amount
included  by the PUCT in rate base was a result of changes in  federal
nuclear  safety  requirements  and  provided  other  support  for  the
remainder of the abeyed amounts.

      There  have been four other rate proceedings in Texas  involving
nuclear  power plants.  Investment in the plants ultimately disallowed
ranged from 0% to 15%.  Each case was unique, and the disallowances in
each were made on a case-by-case basis for different reasons.  Appeals
of two of these PUCT decisions are currently pending.

      The  following factors support management's position that a loss
contingency  requiring accrual has not occurred, and its  belief  that
all,  or  substantially all, of the abeyed plant costs will ultimately
be recovered:

     1. The  $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs have  never
        been ruled imprudent and disallowed by the PUCT.
     2. Sandlin  Associates' analysis which supports the  prudence  of
        substantially all of the abeyed construction costs.
     3. Historical  inclusion  by  the PUCT  of  prudent  construction
        costs in rate base.
     4. The   analysis  of  GSU's  internal  legal  staff,  which  has
        considerable experience in Texas rate case litigation.
     
      Additionally, management believes, based on advice  from  Clark,
Thomas  & Winters, a Professional Corporation, legal counsel of record
in  the  Rate Appeal, that it is reasonably possible that the  Allowed
Deferrals  will  continue to be recovered in rates.   Management  also
believes, based on advice from Clark, Thomas & Winters, a Professional
Corporation, legal counsel of record in the Rate Appeal,  that  it  is
reasonably  possible  that  the deferred costs  related  to  the  $1.4
billion of abeyed River Bend plant costs will be recovered in rates to
the  extent  that  the  $1.4 billion of abeyed  River  Bend  plant  is
recovered.   However, a net of tax write-off of the  $170  million  of
deferred costs related to the $1.4 billion of abeyed River Bend  plant
costs  would  be required if they are not allowed to be  recovered  in
rates.

     A proposed accounting standard, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived  Assets," which is expected to become effective January  1,
1996,  may require the write-off of the $170 million of rate deferrals
discussed  above,  upon  adoption of the  standard  unless  there  are
favorable regulatory or court actions related to these costs prior  to
adoption.

Merger-Related Rate Agreements

      In  November  1993, Entergy Corporation, AP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI
entered  into separate settlement agreements whereby the  APSC,  MPSC,
and  Council agreed to withdraw from the SEC proceeding related to the
Merger.   In return AP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI agreed, among other  things,
that their retail ratepayers would be protected from (1) increases  in
the  cost of capital resulting from risks associated with the  Merger,
(2)   recovery   of  any  portion  of  the  acquisition   premium   or
transactional  costs associated with the Merger,  (3)  certain  direct
allocations  of costs associated with GSU's River Bend  nuclear  unit,
and  (4) any losses of GSU resulting from resolution of litigation  in
connection with its ownership of River Bend.

     The LPSC and the PUCT approved separate regulatory proposals that
include  the  following elements: (1) a five-year Rate  Cap  on  GSU's
retail electric base rates in the respective states, except for  force
majeure   (defined  to  include,  among  other  things,  war,  natural
catastrophes, and high inflation); (2) a provision for passing through
to  retail  customers  in  the respective  states  the  jurisdictional
portion of the fuel savings created by the Merger; and (3) a mechanism
for  tracking nonfuel operation and maintenance savings created by the
Merger.   The LPSC regulatory plan provides that such nonfuel  savings
will be shared 60% by the shareholder and 40% by ratepayers during the
eight  years following the Merger.  The LPSC plan requires  regulatory
filings each year by the end of May through 2001.  The PUCT regulatory
plan  provides  that  such  savings will  be  shared  equally  by  the
shareholder and ratepayers, except that the shareholder's portion will
be  reduced by $2.6 million per year on a total company basis in years
four  through eight.  The PUCT plan also requires a series  of  future
regulatory  filings in November 1996, 1998, and 2001, to  ensure  that
ratepayers'  share of such savings be reflected in rates on  a  timely
basis  and  requires  Entergy Corporation to hold GSU's  Texas  retail
customers harmless from the effects of the removal by FERC  of  a  40%
cap  on the amount of fuel savings GSU may be required to transfer  to
other  System  operating companies under the FERC  tracking  mechanism
(see below).  On January 14, 1994, Entergy Corporation filed a request
for  rehearing of FERC's December 15, 1993, order approving the Merger
requesting  that FERC restore the 40% cap provision in the  fuel  cost
protection mechanism.  The matter is pending.

     FERC approved certain rate schedule changes to integrate GSU into
the  System  Agreement.  Certain commitments were adopted  to  provide
reasonable  assurance  that the ratepayers of AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and
NOPSI  will  not  be  allocated higher costs, including,  among  other
things,  (1)  a  tracking mechanism to protect AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,  and
NOPSI  from  certain  unexpected increases  in  fuel  costs,  (2)  the
distribution of profits from power sales contracts entered into  prior
to  the  Merger, (3) a methodology to estimate the cost of capital  in
future FERC proceedings, and (4) a stipulation that AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI  will be insulated from certain direct effects on  capacity
equalization  payments should GSU acquire Cajun's 30% share  in  River
Bend (see Note 8).

Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities

      In  March  1994, the Texas Office of Public Utility Counsel  and
certain  cities  served  by GSU instituted  an  investigation  of  the
reasonableness of GSU's rates.  In June 1994, GSU provided the  cities
with  information that GSU believed supported the current rate  level.
GSU filed the same information with the PUCT in June 1994, pursuant to
provisions  of  the  Merger.  In September 1994,  the  various  cities
adopted  ordinances directing GSU to reduce its Texas retail rates  by
$45.9 million.  GSU appealed the cities' ordinances to the PUCT for  a
determination of reasonableness of GSU's rates.

     In November 1994, those cities that intervened in the PUCT appeal
filed  testimony  with the PUCT supporting a $118  million  base  rate
reduction  in lieu of the previously proposed $45.9 million reduction.
In  November  1994, the PUCT staff filed testimony  that  supported  a
$38.2  million  base rate reduction.  GSU filed information  with  the
PUCT  that it believed supported the current level of rates.  Hearings
were  held in December 1994 and on March 20, 1995, the PUCT ordered  a
$72.9  million  annual base rate reduction for the  period  March  31,
1994,   through September 1, 1994, decreasing to an annual  base  rate
reduction  of  $52.9 million after September 1, 1994.   In  accordance
with the Merger agreement, the rate reduction is applied retroactively
to  March  31, 1994.  As a result, GSU recorded in 1994 a $57  million  
reserve  for  rate  refund and a $12.8 million reserve  for  franchise
taxes  to be refunded.  These charges reduced net income after tax  by
$41.6  million.  The rate reduction is being appealed and no assurance
can be given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

Texas Cities Rate Settlement - 1993

      In  June  1993,  13  cities  within  GSU's  Texas  service  area
instituted  an investigation to determine whether GSU's current  rates
were  justified.   In October 1993, the general counsel  of  the  PUCT
instituted  an  inquiry into the reasonableness of  GSU's  rates.   In
November  1993, a settlement agreement was filed with the  PUCT  which
provided for an initial reduction in GSU's annual retail base revenues
in  Texas of approximately $22.5 million effective for electric  usage
on  or  after November 1, 1993, and a second reduction of $20  million
effective  September  1994.  Pursuant to the settlement,  GSU  reduced
rates  with a $20 million one-time bill credit in December  1993,  and
refunded  approximately $3 million to Texas retail customers on  bills
rendered in December 1993.  The PUCT approved the settlement agreement
on  July 21, 1994.  The cities' rate inquiries were settled earlier on
the same terms.

LPSC Rate Order - 1994

      In  May  1994, GSU made the required first post-Merger  earnings
analysis filing with the LPSC.  On December 14, 1994, the LPSC ordered
a  $12.7 million annual rate reduction for GSU effective January 1995.
The  rate  order  included, among other things, a reduction  in  GSU's
Louisiana  jurisdictional authorized return on equity from  12.75%  to
10.95%  and the amortization for the benefit of the customers of  $8.3
million of previously deferred unbilled revenue, representing one-half
of  the total resulting from a change in accounting discussed in  Note
1.   On December 28, 1994, GSU received a preliminary injunction  from
the  19th  Judicial  District  Court regarding  $8.3  million  of  the
reduction.   On  January 1, 1995, GSU reduced rates by  $4.4  million.
The  entire $12.7 million reduction is being appealed and no assurance
can be given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

PUCT Fuel Cost Review (December 1, 1986 - September 30, 1991)

      In  January 1992, GSU applied to the PUCT for a new  fixed  fuel
factor  and  requested a final reconciliation of  fuel  and  purchased
power  costs incurred between December 1, 1986 and September 30, 1991.
GSU  proposed  to recover net underrecoveries and interest  (including
underrecoveries  related to Nelson Industrial Steam  Company  (NISCO),
discussed below) over a twelve-month period.

      In April 1993, the presiding PUCT administrative law judge (ALJ)
issued   a   report   concluding  that  GSU   incurred   approximately
$117  million  of  nonreimbursable fuel costs on a company-wide  basis
(approximately  $50  million on a Texas retail  jurisdictional  basis)
during  the  reconciliation period.  Included in  the  nonreimbursable
fuel  costs  were  payments above GSU's avoided cost  rate  for  power
purchased  from  NISCO.  The PUCT ordered in 1986 that  the  purchased
power costs from NISCO in excess of GSU's avoided costs be disallowed.
The  PUCT  disallowance  resulted  in  approximately  $12  million  to
$15  million of unrecovered purchased power costs on an annual  basis,
which  GSU continued to expense as the costs were incurred.  In  April
1991,  the  Texas Supreme Court, in the appeal of such order,  ordered
the PUCT to allow GSU to recover purchased power payments in excess of
its  avoided  cost  in future proceedings, if GSU established  to  the
PUCT's  satisfaction that the payments were reasonable  and  necessary
expenses.

      In  June  1993,  the  PUCT concluded that  the  purchased  power
payments  made  to  NISCO in excess of GSU's  avoided  cost  were  not
reasonably  incurred.   As  a  result  of  the  order,  GSU   recorded
additional fuel expenses (including interest) of $2.8 million for non-
NISCO  related  items.   The PUCT's order resulted  in  no  additional
expenses related to the NISCO issue, or for overcollections related to
the  fixed fuel factor, as those charges were expensed by GSU as  they
were  incurred.   The  PUCT concluded that GSU had over-collected  its
fuel  costs  in  Texas  and ordered GSU to refund approximately  $33.8
million  to  its Texas retail customers, including approximately  $7.5
million  of  interest.  In that proceeding, the PUCT  also  set  GSU's
fixed  fuel factor in Texas at 1.84 cents per KWH in response to GSU's
request  that  the factor be set at 2.02 cents per  KWH.   In  October
1993,  GSU  appealed  the PUCT's order to the Travis  County  District
Court where the matter is still pending.  No assurance can be given as
to  the  timing or outcome of that appeal.  In a subsequent proceeding
to  review  GSU's  fuel  factor, the PUCT approved  GSU's  request  to
further  reduce its fixed fuel factor in Texas to 1.78 cents  per  KWH
from 1.84 cents per KWH.

PUCT Fuel Cost Review (October 1, 1991 - December  31, 1993)

      On January 9, 1995, GSU and various parties reached an agreement
for  the  reconciliation  of  over- and  under-recovery  of  fuel  and
purchased  power  expenses  for the period October  1,  1991,  through
December 31, 1993.  While the settlement still requires PUCT approval,
GSU  believes  it  will  ultimately be approved  and  has  accordingly
recorded a reserve of $7.6 million.

LPSC Fuel Cost Review

      In  November 1993, the LPSC ordered a review of GSU's fuel costs
for the period October 1988 through September 1991 (Phase 1) based  on
the  number of outages at River Bend and the findings in the June 1993
PUCT  fuel reconciliation case.  In July 1994, the LPSC ruled  in  the
Phase  1 fuel review case and ordered GSU to refund approximately  $27
million to its customers.  Under the order, a refund of $13.1 million,
which  was  not contested under a Louisiana Supreme Court decision  as
discussed  below,  was made through a billing credit  on  August  1994
bills.  In August 1994, GSU appealed the remaining portion of the LPSC
ordered refund to the district court.  GSU has made no reserve for the
remaining  portion, pending outcome of the district court appeal,  and
no assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of the appeal.

     On January 18, 1995, GSU met with the Special Counsel of the LPSC
to discuss the procedural schedule for the upcoming fuel review (Phase
II).  The period under investigation was determined to be from October
1991 to December 1994.  Hearings are scheduled to begin in July 1995.

      In  February  1990,  the  LPSC disallowed  the  pass-through  to
ratepayers for the portion of GSU's cost to purchase power from  NISCO
representing  the excess of NISCO's purchase price of the  units  over
GSU's depreciated cost of the units.  GSU appealed the 1990 order.  In
March  1994, the Louisiana Supreme Court ruled in favor of  the  LPSC.
GSU  recorded  an estimated refund provision of $13.1 million,  before
related income taxes of $5.3 million.

Deregulated Asset Plan

    A  deregulated  asset  plan representing  an  unregulated  portion
(approximately 22%) of River Bend (plant costs, generation,  revenues,
and  expenses) was established pursuant to a January 1992 LPSC  order.
The  plan  allows  GSU  to sell such generation  to  Louisiana  retail
customers  at  4.6 cents per KWH or off-system at higher  prices  with
certain sharing provisions for such incremental revenue.

River Bend Cost Deferrals

      GSU  deferred approximately $369 million of River Bend operating
costs, purchased power costs, and accrued carrying charges pursuant to
a  1986  PUCT accounting order.  Approximately $182 million  of  these
costs  are  being amortized over a 20-year period, and  the  remaining
$187  million are not being amortized pending the ultimate outcome  of
the Rate Appeal.  As of December 31, 1994, the unamortized balance  of
these  costs  was  $321 million.  Further, GSU deferred  approximately
$400.4  million  of similar costs pursuant to a 1986  LPSC  accounting
order.    These  costs,  of  which  approximately  $122  million   are
unamortized as of December 31, 1994, are being amortized  over  a  10-
year period ending in 1997.

      In  accordance with a phase-in plan approved by  the  LPSC,  GSU
deferred  $294 million of its River Bend costs related to  the  period
February  1988 through February 1991.  GSU has amortized $129  million
through  December 31, 1994, and the remainder of $165 million will  be
recovered over approximately 3.2 years.


NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES

     (1) Income tax expense (benefit) consisted of the following:



      Income  taxes  differ from the amounts computed by applying the  statutory
federal  income  tax  rate  to  income before  taxes.   The  reasons  for  these
differences were:



       Significant   components  of  net  deferred  tax   liabilities,   as   of
December 31, 1994 and 1993, were (in thousands):


                                                                

       As  of  December  31,  1994,  for  tax  purposes,  GSU  had  federal  tax
loss   carryforwards   of  approximately  $666.7  million,   state   tax    loss
carryforward  of  approximately  $498.2  million,  and  investment   tax   (ITC)
and   other   credit  carryforwards  of  approximately  $176.4   million   which
will  be  used  to  reduce  income tax payments in  future  years  and,  if  not
used,   will  expire  through  the  year  2008.   It  is  currently  anticipated
that   approximately   $64.4   million  of   ITC   carryforwards   will   expire
unutilized   as   a  result  of  limitations  arising  from   the   Merger.    A
valuation  allowance  has  been  provided  for  deferred  tax  assets   relating
to   that   amount.   The  alternative  minimum  tax  credit,   which   can   be
carried  forward  indefinitely  to  reduce  GSU's  future  federal  income   tax
liability, was $40.6 million as of December 31, 1994.

       In  1993,  GSU  adopted  SFAS  109.   SFAS  109  required  that  deferred
income    taxes    be    recorded    for   all   temporary    differences    and
carryforwards,  and  that  deferred  tax  balances  be  based  on  enacted   tax
laws  at  tax  rates  that  are  expected to be in  effect  when  the  temporary
differences   reverse.    SFAS   109   required   that   regulated   enterprises
recognize   adjustments   resulting  from  its  implementation   as   regulatory
assets   or   liabilities  if  it  is  probable  that  such  amounts   will   be
recovered    from   or   returned   to   customers   in   future    rates.     A
substantial   majority   of  the  adjustments  required   by   SFAS   109   were
recorded    to   deferred   tax   balance   sheet   accounts   with   offsetting
adjustments   to   regulatory  assets  and  liabilities.    GSU   recorded   the
adoption   of   SFAS   109  by  restating  1990,  1991,   and   1992   financial
statements   and  including  a  charge  of  $96.5  million  for  the  cumulative
effect  of  the  adoption  of  SFAS  109 in  1990  primarily  for  that  portion
of   the   operations  on  which  GSU  has  discontinued  regulatory  accounting
principles.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

      The  SEC  has  authorized  GSU  to  effect  short-term  borrowings  up  to
$125  million,  which  may  be  increased to  as  much  as  $395  million  after
further    SEC    approval.    This   authorization   is    effective    through
November  30,  1996.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  GSU  had  unused  lines  of
credit   for   short-term   borrowings   of   $5   million.    Interest    rates
associated  with  these  lines  of  credit generally  are  based  on  the  prime
rate,   the   EURO   dollar   rate,   or  a   certificate   of   deposit   rate.
Commitment  fees  on  these  lines  of  credit  are  .125%  of  the  amount   of
available   credit.   In  addition,  GSU  can  borrow  from  the   Money   Pool,
subject   to   its  maximum  authorized  level  of  short-term  borrowings   and
the   availability   of  funds.   GSU  had  no  outstanding   borrowings   under
the Money Pool arrangement as of December 31, 1994.


NOTE 5.   PREFERRED, PREFERENCE, AND COMMON STOCK

      The  number  of shares and dollar value of GSU's preferred and  preference
stock were:



(1)This series is not redeemable as of December 31, 1994.
(2)The total dollar value represents the involuntary liquidation
   value of $25 per share.                                                   
(3)Rates are as of December 31, 1994.

       The   fair   value   of  GSU's  preferred  and  preference   stock   with
sinking  fund  was  estimated  to  be  approximately  $227.8  million  and  $255
million   as   of   December  31,  1994  and  1993,  respectively.    The   fair
values   were   determined  using  quoted  market  prices  or   estimates   from
nationally   recognized   investment   banking   firms.   See   Note    1    for
additional   information   on   disclosure   of   fair   value   of    financial
instruments.

     Changes in the common stock, preference stock, and preferred
stock during the last three years were:



      Minimum cash sinking fund requirements for preferred stock  with
sinking  funds  are  $6.1  million for each of  the  years  1995-1999.
Limitations based on the ratio of after-tax earnings to fixed  charges
and  preferred  dividends are imposed by GSU's  Restated  Articles  of
Incorporation  (Articles) upon the issuance  of  additional  preferred
stock.   Based  upon  the results of operations  for  the  year  ended
December  31,  1994,  GSU is unable to issue any additional  preferred
stock.


NOTE 6.   LONG-TERM DEBT

      GSU's  long-term debt as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,  was  as
follows:

                                                                           
       The  fair  value  of  GSU's  long-term  debt  as  of  December  31,  1994
and   1993   was  estimated  to  be  $2,277.3  million  and  $2,548.1   million,
respectively.     Fair  values  were  determined  using  bid   prices   reported
by   dealer   markets   and   by   nationally  recognized   investment   banking
firms.    See  Note  1  for  additional  information  on  disclosure   of   fair
value of financial instruments.

      For  the  years  1995,  1996,  1997, 1998, and  1999,  GSU  has  long-term
debt   maturities   and  cash  sinking  fund  requirements  of   (in   millions)
$50.4,   $145.4,  $160.9,  $190.9  and  $100.9,  respectively.    In   addition,
other   sinking  fund  requirements  for  the  years  1995,  1996,  1997,  1998,
and   1999   of   (in   millions)  $16.7,  $16.5,  $15.2,  $13.5,   and   $12.3,
respectively,   may   be   satisfied    by   cash   or   by   certification   of
property additions at a rate of 167% of such requirements.

       GSU   has  two  outstanding  series  of  pollution  control  bonds  which
are    collateralized   by   irrevocable   letters   of   credit    which    are
scheduled   to  expire  before  the  scheduled  maturity  of  the  bonds.    The
letter   of   credit   collateralizing   the   $28.4   million   variable   rate
series  due  December  1,  2015,  expires  in  September  1996  and  the  letter
of   credit   collateralizing  the  $20  million  variable   rate   series   due
April   1,  2016,  expires  in  April  1996.   GSU  plans  to  refinance   these
series or renew the letters of credit.


NOTE 7. DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

       Certain   limitations  on  the  payment  of  cash  dividends  on   common
stock    are    contained   in   the   Articles,   Mortgage    Indenture,    and
applicable  state  and  federal  law.   As  of  December  31,  1994,   none   of
GSU's   retained   earnings  were  restricted  against  the  payment   of   cash
dividends or other distributions on common stock.


NOTE 8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Financial Condition

      Although  GSU  received  partial  rate  relief  relating  to  River  Bend,
GSU's   financial   position   was  strained  from   1986   to   1990   by   its
inability   to   earn  a  return  on  and  fully  recover  its  investment   and
other  costs  associated  with  River  Bend.   Issues  to  be  finally  resolved
in  PUCT  rate  proceedings  and  appeals  thereof,  as  discussed  in  Note  2,
combined    with   certain   significant   business   relationships   (discussed
below)   and   the   application  of  accounting  standards,   may   result   in
substantial   write-offs   and  charges  that  could   result   in   substantial
net   losses   being   reported   in   1995,  and   subsequent   periods,   with
resulting    substantial   adverse   adjustments   to    common    shareholder's
equity.   Future  earnings  will  continue  to  be  adversely  affected  by  the
lack   of   full  recovery  and  return  on  the  investment  and  other   costs
associated with River Bend.

Cajun - River Bend

       GSU   has   significant  business  relationships  with  Cajun,  including
co-ownership  of  River  Bend  and Big Cajun 2,  Unit  3.   GSU  and  Cajun  own
70%   and  30%  undivided  interests  in  River  Bend,  respectively,  and   42%
and 58% undivided interests in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, respectively.

       In   June  1989,  Cajun  filed  a  civil  action  against  GSU   in   the
United   States   District   Court  for  the  Middle   District   of   Louisiana
(District    Court).     Cajun's   complaint   seeks    to    annul,    rescind,
terminate,    and/or   dissolve   the   Joint   Ownership   Participation    and
Operating    Agreement   entered   into   on   August   28,   1979    (Operating
Agreement)  relating  to  River  Bend.   Cajun  alleges  fraud  and   error   by
GSU,   breach   of   its   fiduciary  duties  owed  to   Cajun,   and/or   GSU's
repudiation,   renunciation,   abandonment,   or   dissolution   of   its   core
obligations   under  the  Operating  Agreement,  as  well   as   the   lack   or
failure   of   cause   and/or  consideration  for  Cajun's   performance   under
the   Operating   Agreement.    The  suit  seeks   also   to   recover   Cajun's
alleged    $1.6   billion   investment   in   the   unit   as   damages,    plus
attorneys'   fees,   interest,   and  costs.    Two   member   cooperatives   of
Cajun   have   brought   an   independent  action  to  declare   the   Operating
Agreement  void,  based  upon  failure  to  get  prior  LPSC  approval   alleged
to   be   necessary.   GSU  believes  the  suits  are  without  merit   and   is
contesting them vigorously.

       A   trial  without  jury  on  the  portion  of  the  suit  by  Cajun   to
rescind   the   Operating  Agreement  which  began  in  April  1994   has   been
completed,   and   an   order  from  the  District   Court   is   pending.    No
assurance  can  be  given  as  to  the  outcome  of  this  litigation.   If  GSU
were   ultimately  unsuccessful  in  this  litigation  and  were   required   to
make   substantial  payments,  GSU  would  probably  be  unable  to  make   such
payments   and   would  probably  have  to  seek  relief  from   its   creditors
under   the   United   States  Bankruptcy  Code.   If  GSU  prevails   in   this
litigation,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Bankruptcy   Court   will
allow   funding   of   all  required  costs  of  Cajun's  ownership   in   River
Bend.

       Since  1992  Cajun  has  not  paid  its  full  share  of  operating   and
maintenance   expenses  and  other  costs  for  repairs  and   improvements   to
River   Bend.    In  addition,  certain  costs  and  expenses  paid   by   Cajun
were  paid  under  protest.   These  actions  were  taken  by  Cajun  based   on
its   contention,  which  GSU  disagrees,  that  River  Bend's   operating   and
maintenance expenses were excessive.

      In  a  letter  dated  October  21, 1994,  and  at  a  subsequent  meeting,
Cajun   representatives   advised  Entergy  Corporation   and   GSU   that,   on
October   25,   1994,  Cajun  would  exhaust  its  1994  budget  for   operating
and  maintenance  expenses  for  River  Bend,  and  did  not  make  any  further
payments   to   GSU   in   1994  for  River  Bend  operating,   maintenance   or
capital   costs.    Cajun   also   advised  that   the   RUS   (which   provided
funding   to  Cajun  for  its  investment  in  River  Bend)  would  not   permit
Cajun   to   budget   funds  in  1995  to  pay  its  share  of   operating   and
maintenance   expenses  or  capital  costs  for  River  Bend.   However,   Cajun
stated   that   it   would   continue  to  fund  its  share   of   the   nuclear
decommissioning   trust  payments  for  River  Bend,  as   well   as   insurance
and   safety-related  expenses.   The  unpaid  portion  of  Cajun's  River  Bend
operating,   maintenance,  and  capital  costs  for   1994   (which   has   been
fully   reserved)  was  approximately  $22.4  million.   Cajun's   total   share
of    River    Bend    annual   operating   (including   nuclear    fuel)    and
maintenance   expenses  and  capital  costs  was  approximately  $76.1   million
in 1994.

       In  view  of  Cajun's  stated  expectation  that  it  will  fund  only  a
limited    portion   of   its   share   of   River   Bend   related   operating,
maintenance,  and  capital  costs,  GSU  notified  Cajun  that  it   would   (i)
credit  GSU's  share  of  expenses  for Big Cajun  2,  Unit  3  against  amounts
due   from  Cajun  to  GSU  and  (ii)  seek  to  market  Cajun's  share  of  the
power  from  River  Bend  and  apply  the  proceeds  to  the  amounts  due  from
Cajun    to   GSU.    On   November   2,   1994,   Cajun   discontinued    GSU's
entitlement   of   energy  from  Big  Cajun  2,  Unit  3.    In   response,   on
November   3,   1994,  GSU  filed  pleadings  in  District  Court   seeking   an
order  requiring  Cajun  to  provide GSU with  the  energy  from  Big  Cajun  2,
Unit  3  to  which  GSU  is  entitled, and  holding  that  GSU  is  entitled  to
credit  amounts  due  from  GSU  to  Cajun for  Big  Cajun  2,  Unit  3  against
amounts  due  from  Cajun  to  GSU with respect  to  River  Bend.   On  December
19,   1994,   the   District  Court  issued  an  injunction  prohibiting   Cajun
from   denying   its   share  of  energy  from  Big  Cajun   2,   Unit   3   and
stipulating   that  GSU  must  make  payments  for  its  portion   of   expenses
for Big Cajun 2, Unit 3 to the registry of the District Court.

       On   December   14,  1994,  the  LPSC  ordered  Cajun  to  decrease   the
rates   charged   to  its  member  distribution  cooperatives  by  approximately
$30  million  per  year.   The  rate decrease  is  associated  with  the  LPSC's
prior finding of imprudence in Cajun's participation in River Bend.

       On   December   21,  1994,  Cajun  filed  a  petition  in    the   United
States   Bankruptcy   Court  for  the  Middle  District  of  Louisiana   seeking
bankruptcy   relief   under   Chapter  11  of  the  United   States   Bankruptcy
Code.  Cajun's  bankruptcy  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on   GSU,
including   the   possibility   of  an  NRC   action   with   respect   to   the
operation  of  River  Bend.   However,  GSU  is  taking  appropriate  steps   to
protect  its  interests  and  its claims against  Cajun  arising  from  the  co-
ownership   in   River  Bend  and  Big  Cajun  2,  Unit  3.   On  December   31,
1994,  the  District  Court  issued  an  order  lifting  an  automatic  stay  as
to    certain    proceedings,   with   the   result   that    the    preliminary
injunction   granted   by  the  Court  on  December   19,   1994,   remains   in
effect.   Cajun  filed  a  Notice  of  Appeal  on  January  18,  1995,  to   the
United   States   Court   of   Appeals  for  the   Fifth   Circuit   seeking   a
reversal   of   the  District  Court's  grant  of  the  preliminary  injunction.
No hearing date has been set on Cajun's appeal.

      In  the  bankruptcy  proceedings, Cajun  filed  on  January  10,  1995,  a
motion   to   reject  the  River  Bend  Operating  Agreement  as  a   burdensome
executory   contract.    GSU   responded   on   January   10,   1995,   with   a
memorandum   opposing   Cajun's   motion  filed   with   the   District   Court.
This   memorandum  argues  that  the  motion  should  be  denied   because   (1)
the   Operating   Agreement  is  not  an  executory   contract   that   can   be
rejected   under   the  United  States  Bankruptcy  Code,   but   an   agreement
establishing   property  rights  and  obligations;  (2)  Cajun  legally   cannot
have   its   payment   obligations  under  the  Operating  Agreement   suspended
while   retaining  the  benefits  from  co-ownership  in  River  Bend,  as   the
benefits   and   obligations  are  indivisible;  (3)  Cajun   cannot   seek   to
dispose  of  its  property  interest  in River  Bend  or  reject  the  Operating
Agreement   with   respect   thereto   without   disposing   of   all   of   its
property   interests   and   rejecting  all  of  the  arrangements   under   the
River    Bend    package   of   agreements   consisting   of    the    Operating
Agreement,   Big   Cajun  2,  Unit  3  facility,  certain   transmission   lines
and    the    buy-back   agreement   pursuant   to   when   GSU    paid    Cajun
approximately   $600  million  for  River  Bend  capacity  and   energy   during
the   early   years   of   operation  of   River   Bend;   and   (4)   a   legal
determination   of   Cajun's   obligations   and   interests   in   River   Bend
should  only  be  made  as  part  of  a plan  of  reorganization  in  bankruptcy
and   such   determination  should  be  subject  to  regulatory   approvals   by
certain   agencies  with  jurisdiction  over  Cajun,  including  the  NRC.    If
the   court   were   to   grant   Cajun's  motion  to   reject   the   Operating
Agreement,   Cajun  would  be  relieved  of  its  financial  obligations   under
the   contract,  while  GSU  would  likely  have  a  substantial  damage   claim
arising   from   any  such  rejection.   Although  GSU  believes  that   Cajun's
motion  to  reject  the  Operating  Agreement  is  non-meritorious,  it  is  not
possible    to   predict   the   outcome   or   ultimate   impact    of    these
proceedings.

      During  the  period  in  which Cajun is not  paying  its  share  of  River
Bend   costs,   GSU  intends  to  fund  all  costs  necessary  for   the   safe,
continuing   operation   of   the   unit.   The  responsibilities   of   Entergy
Operations   as   the   licensed   operator   of   River   Bend,   for    safely
operating   and   maintaining   the   unit   are   not   affected   by   Cajun's
actions.

      The  total  resulting  from  Cajun's  failure  to  fund  repair  projects,
Cajun's   funding   limitation   on   refueling   outages,   and   the    weekly
funding  limitation  by  Cajun  was  $55.6 million  as  of  December  31,  1994,
compared   with   $33.3  million  as  of  December  31,  1993.   These   amounts
are   reflected  in  long-term  receivables  with  an  offsetting   reserve   in
other   deferred   credits.   Cajun's  bankruptcy  may   affect   the   ultimate
collectibility  of  the  amounts  owed  to  GSU,  including  any  amounts   that
may be awarded in litigation.

       In   September   1994,   in   connection   with   Entergy   Corporation's
analysis   of   certain   preacquisition  contingencies,   Entergy   Corporation
increased   its  acquisition  adjustment  and  GSU  recorded  a  loss  provision
associated   with  the  River  Bend  litigation  between  GSU  and   Cajun   and
certain  underpayments  by  Cajun  of  River  Bend  costs,  in  accordance  with
SFAS   5,   "Accounting  for  Contingencies."   See  Note  13   for   additional
information   on   provisions   for   preacquisition   contingencies    recorded
during 1994.

Cajun - Transmission Service

       GSU   and   Cajun   are   parties  to  FERC   proceedings   relating   to
transmission   service  charge  disputes.   In  April  1992,   FERC   issued   a
final  order.   In  May  1992,  GSU  and  Cajun  filed  motions  for  rehearings
which   are  pending  at  FERC.   In  June  1992,  GSU  filed  a  petition   for
review  in  the  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  regarding  certain  of  the
issues   decided  by  FERC.   In  August  1993,  the  United  States  Court   of
Appeals   rendered   an   opinion  reversing  the  FERC  order   regarding   the
portion   of   such   disputes   relating  to  the   calculations   of   certain
credits   and   equalization  charges  under  GSU's   service   schedules   with
Cajun.    The   opinion   remanded  the  issues  to   FERC   for   further   pro
ceedings  consistent  with  its  opinion.   In  December  1994,  FERC   held   a
hearing   to  address  the  issues  remanded  by  the  Court  of  Appeals.    In
February  1995,  FERC  clarified  its  order,  eliminating  an  issue  that  GSU
believes the Court of Appeals directed FERC to reconsider.

      GSU  interprets  the  1992  FERC order and  the  United  States  Court  of
Appeals'  decision  to  mean  that  Cajun  would  owe  GSU  approximately  $93.3
million  as  of  December  31,  1994.   However,  FERC's  February  1995   order
indicates   that  FERC  believes  an  issue,  estimated  by  GSU  to  constitute
approximately  $26.2  million  of  this  amount,  may  not  be  pursued  by  GSU
in   the  remand  proceedings.   GSU  further  estimates  that  if  it  prevails
in    its    May   1992   motion   for   rehearing,   Cajun   would   owe    GSU
approximately  $129.6  million  as  of  December  31,  1994.   If   Cajun   were
to  prevail  in  its  May  1992  motion  for  rehearing  to  FERC,  and  if  GSU
were  not  to  prevail  in  its  May 1992 motion  for  rehearing  to  FERC,  and
if   FERC   does   not  implement  the  court's  remand  as  GSU   contends   is
required,  GSU  estimates  it  would  owe  Cajun  approximately  $85.6   million
as   of  December  31,  1994.   The  above  amounts  are  exclusive  of  a  $7.3
million   payment   by   Cajun  on  December  31,  1990,   which   the   parties
agreed  to  apply  to  the  disputed  transmission  service  charges.   GSU  and
Cajun   further   agreed   that   their   positions   at   FERC   would   remain
unaffected  by  the  $7.3  million  payment.   Pending  FERC's  ruling  on   the
May   1992   motions   for   rehearing,  GSU  has  continued   to   bill   Cajun
utilizing   the   historical  billing  methodology  and  has  booked   underpaid
transmission   charges,   including  interest,   in   the   amount   of   $160.2
million   as  of  December  31,  1994.   This  amount  is  reflected  in   long-
term receivables with an offsetting reserve in other deferred credits.

Capital Requirements and Financing

       Construction  expenditures  (excluding  nuclear  fuel)  for   the   years
1995,   1996,  and  1997  are  estimated  to  total  $177  million  each   year.
GSU  will  also  require  $375  million during  the  period  1995-1997  to  meet
long-term    debt   and   preferred   stock   maturities   and   sinking    fund
requirements.     GSU    plans   to   meet   the   above    requirements    with
internally   generated  funds  and  cash  on  hand.    See   Notes   5   and   6
regarding   the   possible   issuance,  refunding,   redemption,   purchase   or
other  acquisition  of  certain  outstanding  series  of  preferred  stock   and
long-term debt.

Nuclear Insurance

       The   Price-Anderson   Act  limits  public   liability   for   a   single
nuclear   incident   to  approximately  $8.92  billion  as   of   December   31,
1994.   GSU  has  protection  for  this  liability  through  a  combination   of
private   insurance   (currently  $200  million)  and  an  industry   assessment
program.    Under  the  assessment  program,  the  maximum  amount  that   would
be   required   for   each  nuclear  incident  would  be   $79.3   million   per
reactor,   payable  at  a  rate  of  $10  million  per  licensed   reactor   per
incident   per   year.    GSU  has  one  licensed  reactor.    Any   assessments
pertaining  to  this  program  are  subject  to  the  allocation  in  accordance
with   the   respective   ownership   interests   of   GSU   and   Cajun.     In
addition,   GSU   participates   in   a   private   insurance   program    which
provides   coverage   for   worker  tort  claims   filed   for   bodily   injury
caused   by   radiation   exposure.   GSU's   maximum   assessment   under   the
program   is   an  aggregate  of  approximately  $3.2  million  in   the   event
losses exceed accumulated reserve funds.

       GSU   and   Cajun  are  members  of  certain  insurance   programs   that
provide   coverage   for   property   damage,  including   decontamination   and
premature    decommissioning   expense,   to   members'    nuclear    generating
plants.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  GSU  was  insured  against  such  losses
up   to   $2.75  billion  with  $250  million  of  this  amount  designated   to
cover   any  shortfall  in  the  NRC  required  decommissioning  trust  funding.
In   addition,   GSU   is  a  member  of  an  insurance  program   that   covers
certain   replacement  power  and  business  interruption  costs  incurred   due
to   prolonged   nuclear   unit  outages.   Under  the   property   damage   and
replacement   power/business   interruption  insurance   programs,   GSU   could
be   subject   to   assessments   if  losses  exceed   the   accumulated   funds
available   to   the   insurers.   As  of  December  31,   1994,   the   maximum
amount  of  such  possible  assessments  to  GSU  was  $22.6  million.     Cajun
shares approximately $4.4 million of GSU's obligation.
      
      The  amount  of  property  insurance  presently  carried  by  GSU  exceeds
the   NRC's   minimum   requirement  for  nuclear  power  plant   licensees   of
$1.06  billion  per  site.   NRC  regulations  provide  that  the  proceeds   of
this  insurance  must  be  used,  first,  to  place  and  maintain  the  reactor
in    a    safe    and    stable   condition   and,    second,    to    complete
decontamination   operations.    Only   after   proceeds   are   dedicated   for
such   use   and   regulatory   approval  is  secured,   would   any   remaining
proceeds   be  made  available  for  the  benefit  of  plant  owners  or   their
creditors.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

       GSU   provides   for   estimated  future   disposal   costs   for   spent
nuclear  fuel  in  accordance  with  the  Nuclear  Waste  Policy  Act  of  1982.
GSU  entered  into  a  contract  with the DOE,  whereby  the  DOE  will  furnish
disposal  service  at  a  cost  of one mill per  net  KWH  generated  and  sold.
The  fees  payable  to  the  DOE  may  be  adjusted  in  the  future  to  assure
full  recovery.  GSU  considers  all  costs  incurred  or  to  be  incurred  for
the  disposal  of  spent  nuclear  fuel  to  be  proper  components  of  nuclear
fuel   expense,  and  provisions  to  recover  such  costs  have  been  or  will
be made in applications to regulatory authorities.

      Delays  have  occurred  in  the  DOE's  program  for  the  acceptance  and
disposal   of   spent   nuclear   fuel  at  a  permanent   repository.    In   a
statement   released  February  17,  1993,  the  DOE  asserted  that   it   does
not   have  a  legal  obligation  to  accept  spent  nuclear  fuel  without   an
operational   repository  for  which  it  has  not  yet   arranged.    Currently
the   DOE  projects  it  will  begin  to  accept  spent  fuel  no  earlier  than
2010.    In   the   meantime,  GSU  is  responsible  for  spent  fuel   storage.
Current  on-site  spent  fuel  storage  capacity  at  River  Bend  is  estimated
to   be   sufficient  until  2003.   Thereafter,  GSU  will  provide  additional
storage  capacity  at  an  initial  cost of  $5  million  to  $10  million.   In
addition,   approximately   $3  million  to  $5   million   will   be   required
every  four  to  five  years  subsequent to  2003  until  the  DOE's  repository
program begins accepting River Bend's spent fuel.

       Entergy   Operations  and  System  Fuels  joined  in   lawsuits   against
the   DOE,  seeking  clarification  of  the  DOE's  responsibility  to   receive
spent  nuclear  fuel  beginning  in  1998.   The  original  suits,  filed   June
20,  1994,  asked  for  a  ruling  stating that the  Nuclear  Waste  Policy  Act
require  the  DOE  to  begin  taking title  to  the  spent  fuel  and  to  start
removing  it  from  nuclear  power plants in  1998,  a  mandate  for  the  DOE's
nuclear   waste  management  program  to  begin  accepting  fuel  in  1998   and
court   monitoring   of   the  program,  and  the  potential   for   escrow   of
payments to the Nuclear Waste Fund instead of directly to the DOE.

        GSU    is    recovering   in   rates   amounts   sufficient   to    fund
decommissioning   costs   for   River  Bend,  based   on   the   original   1985
decommissioning    cost   study   of   approximately   $141    million,    which
relates  to  GSU's  70%  interest  in River  Bend.   The  amounts  recovered  in
rates   are   deposited  in  external  trust  funds  and  reported   at   market
value.    The   accumulated  decommissioning  liability  of  $22.2  million   as
of   December   31,  1994,  has  been  recorded  in  accumulated   depreciation.
Decommissioning   expense   amounting  to   $3.0   million   was   recorded   in
1994.    A   more   recent  1991  engineering  study  indicates  decommissioning
costs  for  GSU's  70%  interest  may  be  $267.8  million  (in  1990  dollars).
GSU  filed  the  more  recent  cost  study  with  the  PUCT  requesting  a  rate
adjustment   for  decommissioning  expense.   As  discussed  in   Note   2,   on
March   20,  1995,  the  PUCT  ruled  in  the  current  rate  case.   The   PUCT
order   included   recovery  of  River  Bend  decommissioning   costs   totaling
$204.9  million.   GSU  plans  to  ask  the  LPSC  for  a  rate  adjustment  for
decommissioning   expense  in  conjunction  with  its  next   rate   review   in
mid    1995.    The   actual   decommissioning   costs   may   vary   from   the
estimates   because   of   regulatory  requirements,  changes   in   technology,
and   increased   costs   of  labor,  materials,  and   equipment.    Management
believes   that   actual  decommissioning  costs  are  likely   to   be   higher
than the amounts presented above.

       The   staff   of   the  SEC  has  questioned  certain  of   the   current
accounting   practices   of  the  electric  utility  industry,   regarding   the
recognition,   measurement,   and  classification   of   decommissioning   costs
for    nuclear   generating   stations   in   the   financial   statements    of
electric   utilities.    In   response  to  these   questions,   the   FASB   is
currently   reviewing   the   accounting  for   decommissioning.    If   current
electric     utility     industry     accounting     practices     for      such
decommissioning    are   changed,   annual   provisions   for    decommissioning
could   increase,   the   estimated   cost   for   decommissioning   could    be
recorded   as   a  liability  rather  than  as  accumulated  depreciation,   and
trust   fund   income  from  the  external  decommissioning  trusts   could   be
reported    as    investment   income   rather   than   as   a   reduction    to
decommissioning expense.

        The   EPAct   has   a   provision   that   assesses   domestic   nuclear
utilities  with  fees  for  the  decontamination  and  decommissioning  of   the
DOE's   past   uranium   enrichment   operations.    The   decontamination   and
decommissioning  assessments  will  be  used  to  set  up  a  fund  into   which
contributions   from   utilities   and   the   federal   government   will    be
placed.    GSU's  annual  assessment,  which  will  be  adjusted  annually   for
inflation,   is   $0.9   million  (in  1995  dollars)   for   approximately   15
years.    FERC  requires  that  utilities  treat  these  assessments  as   costs
of   fuel  as  they  are  amortized.   The  liability  of  $6.6  million  as  of
December  31,  1994,  is  recorded  in  other  current  liabilities  and   other
noncurrent   liabilities   and  is  offset  in   financial   statements   by   a
regulatory asset.

Long-Term Contracts

      NISCO  Power  Purchases.   In  1988, GSU  entered  into  a  joint  venture
with   a   primary  term  of  20  years  with  Conoco,  Inc.,  Citgo   Petroleum
Corporation,    and    Vista   Chemical   Company   (Industrial    Participants)
whereby  GSU's  Nelson  Units  1  and  2 were  sold  to  a  partnership  (NISCO)
consisting   of   the   Industrial  Participants  and   GSU.    The   Industrial
Participants  are  supplying  the  fuel  for  the  units,  while  GSU   operates
the   units   at   the   discretion   of   the   Industrial   Participants   and
purchases  the  electricity  produced  by  the  units.   GSU  is  continuing  to
sell   electricity  to  the  Industrial  Participants.   For  the  years   ended
December   31,  1994,  1993,  and  1992,  the  purchases  of  electricity   from
the   joint   venture   totaled  $58.3  million,  $62.6   million,   and   $37.8
million, respectively.

       Natural   Gas   Contracts.   GSU  has  long-term  gas   contracts   which
will   satisfy   approximately  75%  of  its  annual   requirements.    However,
such  contracts  as  a  whole  only require GSU to  purchase  in  the  range  of
40%   of   expected   total  gas  needs.   Additional   gas   requirements   are
satisfied   under  less  expensive  short-term  contracts.  GSU   entered   into
a   transportation  service  agreement  which  obligated  the  gas  supplier  to
provide  GSU  with  flexible  natural  gas  swing  service  to  the  Sabine  and
Lewis   Creek   generating  stations.   This  service   is   provided   by   the
supplier's   pipeline  and  salt  dome  gas  storage  facility,  which   has   a
present capacity of 5.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas.

      Coal  Contracts.   GSU  has  contracted for a  long-term  supply  of  low-
sulfur  Wyoming  coal  for  use  at Nelson Unit  6.   This  contract,  which  is
set  to  expire  in  2004,  will  provide a  supply  of  50  million  tons  over
the   term   of   the   contract.    Cajun  has   advised   GSU   that   current
contracts   will  provide  an  adequate  supply  of  coal  for  Big   Cajun   2,
Unit 3 until 1997.

Environmental Issues

       GSU   has   been   notified   by  the  U.  S.  Environmental   Protection
Agency   (EPA)  that  it  has  been  designated  as  a  potentially  responsible
party  for  the  cleanup  of  sites  on  which  GSU  and  others  have  or  have
been   alleged   to   have   disposed  of  material  designated   as   hazardous
waste.     GSU   is   currently   negotiating   with   the   EPA    and    state
authorities   regarding   the  cleanup  of  some  of   these   sites.    Several
class   action   and  other  suits  have  been  filed  in  state   and   federal
courts   seeking  relief  from  GSU  and  others  for  damages  caused  by   the
disposal   of  hazardous  waste  and  for  asbestos-related  disease   allegedly
resulting  from  exposure  on  GSU  premises.   While  the  amounts   at   issue
in  the  cleanup  efforts  and  suits  may be  substantial,  GSU  believes  that
its   results   of   operations   and   financial   condition   will   not    be
materially affected by the outcome of the suits.
       
       As   of   December   31,  1994,  GSU  has  accrued   cumulative   amounts
related  to  the  cleanup  of  six sites at which  GSU  has  been  designated  a
potentially   responsible   party,   totaling   $27.7   million   since    1990.
Through   December  31,  1994,  GSU  has  expended  $7.4  million   cumulatively
on   the  cleanup,  resulting  in  a  remaining  recorded  liability  of   $20.3
million as of December 31, 1994

Sales/Use Tax Issues

       In  September  1994,  the  Louisiana  Supreme  Court  (Court)  issued  an
opinion  (in  a  case  in  which  none of the  System  companies  was  a  party)
holding,   in  part  that  the  Louisiana  state  legislature's  suspension   of
state   sales  and  use  tax  exemptions  also  had  the  effect  of  suspending
exemptions  from  local  sales  and  use  taxes.   On  January  27,   1995   the
Court,   after  rehearing,  reversed  its  opinion.   Because  of  the   Court's
most   recent   ruling,  sales  of  electricity  and  gas,   fuels   and   other
items   used   by   GSU,   LP&L,   and  NOPSI   to   generate   electricity   in
Louisiana,   as  well  as  other  items  exempt  from  sales  and   use   taxes,
continue  to  be  exempt  from  local sales  and  use  taxes,  even  though  the
state exemptions for sales and use tax have been suspended.


NOTE 9.      LEASES

General

      As  of  December  31,  1994,  GSU  had capital  leases  and  noncancelable
operating   leases   (excluding  nuclear  fuel  leases)   with   minimum   lease
payments as follows:

                                                      Capital Operating
                                                      Leases      Leases
   Year                                                 (In Thousands)

   1995                                           $  12,475     $  10,695
   1996                                              12,475        10,135
   1997                                              12,475        13,742
   1998                                              12,475        13,703
   1999                                              12,475        13,703
   Years thereafter                                  81,380        92,597
                                                  ---------     ---------
   Minimum lease payments                           143,755     $ 154,575
                                                                =========
   Less:  Amount representing interest               55,651     
                                                  ---------
   Present value of net minimum lease payments    $  88,104     
                                                  =========

      Rental  expense  for  capital  and operating  leases  (excluding
nuclear  fuel leases) amounted to approximately $15.3, $31.9  million,
and $21.9 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

     GSU is leasing the Lewis Creek generating station from its wholly
owned consolidated subsidiary, GSG&T.

Nuclear Fuel Lease

      GSU  has arrangements to lease nuclear fuel in an amount  up  to
$105  million.   The lessor finances its acquisition of  nuclear  fuel
through  a  credit  agreement and the issuance of notes.   The  credit
agreement,  which  was  entered into in 1993,  has  been  extended  to
December 1997 and the notes have varying remaining maturities of up to
3  years.  It is expected that the credit arrangement will be extended
or  alternative  financing will be secured  by  the  lessor  upon  the
maturity  of  the current arrangements.  If the lessor cannot  arrange
for  alternative  financing upon the maturity of its  borrowings,  GSU
must  purchase  nuclear  fuel in an amount sufficient  to  enable  the
lessor to retire such borrowings.

      Lease  payments  are based on nuclear fuel  use.   Nuclear  fuel
expense of  $37.2 million, $43.6 million, and $31.6 million (including
interest  of  $8.7  million, $10.2 million,  and  $11.5  million)  was
charged to operations in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.


NOTE 10.POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

     GSU has a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all
of  its  employees.  The pension plan is noncontributory and  provides
pension benefits that are based on employees' credited service and the
average  compensation  generally during the  last  five  years  before
retirement.   GSU funds pension costs in accordance with  contribution
guidelines established by the Employee Retirement Income Security  Act
of  1974,  as  amended,  and the Internal Revenue  Code  of  1986,  as
amended.   The  assets  of the plan consist primarily  of  common  and
preferred  stocks and fixed income securities.  In 1994,  GSU  amended
its defined benefit pension plan for non-bargaining unit employees  to
be   consistent   with  the  other  System  companies.   Additionally,
actuarial  assumptions  were also changed to be  consistent  with  the
other System companies.

      GSU's  1994,  1993,  and  1992 pension cost,  including  amounts
capitalized, included the following components:



      The  funded status of GSU's pension plan as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,
was:



      The  accrued  pension  liability  for  GSU  for  1993  has  been  restated
to   include  liabilities  for  certain  Early  Retirement  Programs.  Prior  to
1994,   GSU   accounted   for  such  Early  Retirement  Programs   in   separate
liability    accounts    other    than   the   pension    liability.    However,
effective   in  1994,  GSU  changed  its  policy  to  include  such  liabilities
in   the   pension   liability  account  to  be  consistent   with   the   other
System    companies.    The   significant   actuarial   assumptions   used    in
computing   the   information  above  for  1994,  1993,   and   1992   were   as
follows:  weighted  average  discount  rate,  8.5%  for  1994,  7.5%  for  1993,
and   6.50%   for   1992;   weighted  average  rate  of   increase   in   future
compensation  levels,  5.1%  for  1994, 5.0%  for  1993,  and  5.75%  for  1992;
and  expected  long-term  rate  of  return  on  plan  assets,  8.5%.  Transition
assets are being amortized over 15 years.

      In  December  1993,  GSU  recorded  a  $17.0  million  charge  related  to
the   announced  early  retirement  program  in  connection  with  the   Merger,
of   which   $14.9   million   was  expensed.   In   1994,   GSU   recorded   an
additional   $18.0   million  charge  related  to  early   retirement   programs
in connection with the Merger, of which $15.2 million was expensed.

Other Postretirement Benefits

      GSU  also  provides  certain  health  care  and  life  insurance  benefits
for  retired  employees.   All  of  GSU's  employees  may  become  eligible  for
these   benefits  if  they  reach  retirement  age  while  still   working   for
GSU.   The  cost  of  providing  these  benefits,  recorded  on  a  cash  basis,
was $5.3 million for 1992.

       Effective  January  1,  1993,  GSU  adopted  SFAS  106.   This   standard
required   a   change   from   a  cash  method   to   an   accrual   method   of
accounting    for   postretirement   benefits   other   than   pensions.     GSU
continues   to   fund   these   benefits  on  a  pay-as-you-go-basis.    As   of
January   1,   1993,  the  actuarially  determined  accumulated   postretirement
benefit   obligation  (APBO)  earned  by  retirees  and  active  employees   was
estimated  to  be  approximately  $128  million.   This  obligation   is   being
amortized   over   a  20-year  period  beginning  in  1993.    In   1994,    GSU
changed   its   actuarial  assumptions  and  attribution   methodology   to   be
consistent with the other System companies.

      In  March  1993,  the  PUCT  issued  a  ruling  applicable  to  all  Texas
utilities   that   amounts   recorded  in   compliance   with   SFAS   106   and
included   in  a  rate  filing  test  period,  will  be  recoverable  in   rates
(at    the   time   of   the   next   general   rate   case)   and   that    the
postretirement  benefit  amounts  allowed  in  rates  must  then  be  funded  by
the   utility.    The   PUCT   made  no  specific   provision   in   its   order
permitting  deferral,  as  a  regulatory  asset,  of  these  costs.   The   LPSC
ordered   GSU   to   use  the  pay-as-you-go  method  for  ratemaking   purposes
for   postretirement  benefits  other  than  pensions,  but  the  LPSC   retains
the   flexibility   to   examine   companies'  accounting   for   postretirement
benefits   to   determine   if   special   exceptions   to   this   order    are
warranted.

        GSU's   1994   and   1993   postretirement   benefit   cost,   including
amounts capitalized and deferred, included the following components:


                                                       1994        1993
                                                        (In Thousands)
                                                                 
   Service cost - benefits earned during the period  $ 2,169      $ 5,467
   Interest cost on APBO                               6,449        9,976
   Actual return on plan assets                            -            -
   Net amortization and deferral                       2,832        6,402
                                                     -------      -------
   Net periodic postretirement benefit cost          $11,450      $21,845
                                                     =======      =======

   The funded status of GSU's postretirement plan as of December 31,
   1994 and 1993, was:

                                                       1994        1993
                                                        (In Thousands)
                                                                 
   Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:                
   Retirees                                         $ 39,695    $  46,270
   Other fully eligible participants                  26,069       38,091
   Other active participants                          13,445       18,359
                                                    --------    ---------
                                                      79,209      102,720
   Plan assets at fair value                               -            -
                                                    --------    ---------
   Plan assets in excess of (less than APBO)         (79,209)    (102,720)
   Unrecognized transition obligation                115,232      121,634
   Unrecognized net loss (gain)                      (57,410)     (35,534)
                                                    --------    ---------
   Accrued postretirement benefit liability         $(21,387)   $ (16,620)
                                                    ========    =========

      The  assumed  health care cost trend rate used in measuring  the
APBO is 9.4% for 1995, gradually decreasing each successive year until
it reaches 5% in 2011.  A one percentage-point increase in the assumed
health  care cost trend rate for each year would increase the APBO  as
of  December  31, 1994, by 10.3% and the sum of the service  cost  and
interest  cost by approximately 12.2%.  The assumed discount rate  and
rate  of increase in future compensation used in determining the  APBO
were  8.5%  for 1994 and 7.5% for 1993, and 5.1% for 1994 and  5%  for
1993, respectively.

NOTE 11.TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

      GSU  purchases electricity from and/or sells electricity to  the
other System operating companies, subsequent to the Merger, under rate
schedules  filed with FERC.  In addition, GSU receives  technical  and
advisory  services from Entergy Services, and receives management  and
operating services from Entergy Operations.

    Operating revenues include revenues from sales to System operating
companies  amounting  to  $44.4 million in 1994.   Operating  expenses
include  charges  from System operating companies for purchased  power
and related charges totaling $296.9 million in 1994, and $25.5 million
in  1993,  and $38.8 million in 1992, prior to the Merger.   GSU  pays
directly  or  reimburses Entergy Operations for costs associated  with
operating River Bend (excluding nuclear fuel) which were approximately
$210.2 million in 1994.

NOTE 12.  RESTRUCTURING COSTS

      During  the third quarter of 1994, GSU announced a restructuring
program  related to certain of its operating units.   The  program  is
designed to reduce costs, improve operating efficiencies, and increase
shareholder  value  in  order  to enable  GSU  to  become  a  low-cost
producer.   The program includes reductions in the number of employees
and  the  consolidation  of  offices and  facilities.   In  1994,  GSU
recorded   restructuring  charges  of  $6.5  million.  These   charges
primarily  include employee severance costs related  to  the  expected
termination of approximately 450 employees.  As of December 31,  1994,
no  employees  have been terminated and no termination  benefits  have
been paid under this restructuring program.


NOTE 13.  ENTERGY CORPORATION-GSU MERGER

      On  December  31, 1993, Entergy Corporation and GSU  consummated
their  Merger.   GSU  became  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Entergy
Corporation  and  continues  to operate as  a  corporation  under  the
regulation of FERC, the PUCT, and the LPSC.  As consideration to GSU's
shareholders,  Entergy  Corporation  paid  $250  million  and   issued
56,695,724  shares of its common stock in exchange for the 114,055,065
outstanding shares of GSU common stock.

     As a result of the December 31, 1993 Merger closing, GSU recorded
expenses  totaling $49 million, net of related tax effects, for  early
retirement  and  other  severance related plans  and  the  payment  to
financial  consultants involved in Merger negotiations  on  behalf  of
GSU.   Additionally, GSU recorded $23.8 million in 1994 for  remaining
severance  and  augmented retirement benefits related to  the  Merger.
See Note 2 for information regarding Merger-related rate agreements.

      In  1993, Entergy Corporation recorded an acquisition adjustment
in utility plant in the amount of $380 million representing the excess
of  the  purchase  price over the net assets  acquired  of  GSU.   The
acquisition adjustment will be amortized on a straight-line basis over
a  31-year period, which approximates the remaining average book  life
of  GSU's  plant.   During  the allocation period  (which  expired  on
December  31,  1994), Entergy Corporation completed its analyses  with
respect to preacquisition contingencies and revised the allocation  of
the  purchase price for a number of preacquisition contingencies.   In
1994,   GSU   wrote-off   assets  or  recorded  liabilities   totaling
approximately  $137  million  net of  tax  for  the  Cajun-River  Bend
litigation,  unfunded  Cajun-River Bend costs,  environmental  cleanup
costs,  obsolete  spare  parts, Louisiana River  Bend  rate  deferrals
previously disallowed by the LPSC, plant held for future use, and  the
PUCT  Fuel Reconciliation Settlement.  Any items recorded in  1995  or
later,  will result in write-offs and/or losses charged to  operations
on  GSU's  financial statements and Entergy Corporation's consolidated
financial statements.


NOTE 14.QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

   GSU's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations with the peak
period occurring during the third quarter.  Operating results for the
four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                                                    Income (Loss)
                                                       Before
                                                    Extraordinary
                                                    Items and the
                                                  Cumulative Effect    Net
                       Operating   Operating        of Accounting     Income
                       Revenues     Income            Changes         (Loss)
                                           (In Thousands)
                                                               
      1994:                                                    
      First Quarter    $429,658    $ 58,561           $ 11,043       $ 11,043
      Second Quarter   $456,855    $ 83,357           $ 33,084       $ 33,084
      Third Quarter    $545,531    $ 64,853           $(31,662)      $(31,662)
      Fourth Quarter   $365,321    $  6,880           $(95,220)      $(95,220)
      1993:                                                    
      First Quarter    $404,178    $ 69,408           $ 15,007       $ 25,667
      Second Quarter   $442,223    $ 81,989           $ 31,066       $ 30,781
      Third Quarter    $574,607    $118,032           $ 70,155       $ 69,181
      Fourth Quarter   $406,612    $  1,187           $(46,767)      $(46,767)


     See Note 2 for information regarding the recording  of  a reserve  
     rate refund in December 1994, Note  12 for information  regarding  
     the recording of certain restructuring costs in 1994, and Note 13 
     for information  regarding  the  recording of charges  associated  
     with certain preacquisition contingencies in 1994.
     
     See Note 1 for information regarding the change in accounting for
     unbilled  revenues in 1993.  See Note 2 for information regarding
     rate  refunds  during December 1993, and Note 13 for  information
     regarding  Merger-related  charges  recorded  during  the  fourth
     quarter of 1993.




                          GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                        
                 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON



(1)  Includes long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt), preferred  and
     preference   stock  with  sinking  fund,  and  noncurrent   capital   lease
     obligations.

     See  Notes  1  and 10 for the effect of accounting changes in 1993 and 1992
     and  Notes  2  and 8 regarding River Bend rate appeals and litigation  with
     Cajun.


                                   

















                    Louisiana Power & Light Company
                                   
                                   
                       1994 Financial Statements
                                   
                                   
                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              DEFINITIONS


     Certain abbreviations or acronyms used in LP&L's Financial
Statements, Notes to Financial Statements, and Management's Financial
Discussion and Analysis are defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym           Term

AFUDC                    Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

AP&L                     Arkansas Power & Light Company

DOE                      United States Department of Energy

Entergy or System        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Operations       Entergy  Operations, Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of
                         Entergy   Corporation  that   has   operating
                         responsibility for Grand Gulf 1, Waterford 3,
                         ANO, and River Bend

Entergy Services         Entergy Services, Inc.

EPAct                    The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                     Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC                     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Grand Gulf 1             Unit   No.  1  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2             Unit   No.  2  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf Station       Grand  Gulf Steam Electric Generating Station
                         (nuclear)

GSU                      Gulf   States  Utilities  Company  (including
                         wholly    owned   subsidiaries   -    Varibus
                         Corporation, GSG&T, Inc., Prudential Oil  and
                         Gas, Inc., and Southern Gulf Railway Company)

KWH                      Kilowatt-Hour(s)

LP&L                     Louisiana Power & Light Company

LPSC                     Louisiana Public Service Commission

Money Pool               Entergy  Money  Pool,  which  allows  certain
                         System companies to borrow from, or lend  to,
                         certain other System companies

MP&L                     Mississippi Power & Light Company

NOPSI                    New Orleans Public Service Inc.

OBRA                     Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993

Owner Participant        A  corporation that, in connection  with  the
                         Waterford  3 sale and leaseback transactions,
                         has  acquired  a  beneficial  interest  in  a
                         trust,  the  Owner Trustee of  which  is  the
                         owner and lessor of an undivided interest  in
                         Waterford 3

Owner Trustee            Each institution and/or individual acting  as
                         owner trustee under a trust agreement with an
                         Owner  Participant  in  connection  with  the
                         Waterford 3 sale and leaseback transactions

SEC                      Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                     Statement  of Financial Accounting  Standards
                         promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                 SFAS   106,   "Employers'   Accounting    for
                         Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"

SFAS 109                 SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System or Entergy        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

System Energy            System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels             System Fuels, Inc.

System operating 
 companies               AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI,
                         collectively

Waterford 3              Unit No. 3 of LP&L's Waterford Steam Electric
                         Generating Station (nuclear)


                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                         REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


      The  management of Louisiana Power & Light Company has  prepared
and  is responsible for the financial statements and related financial
information  included herein.  The financial statements are  based  on
generally   accepted  accounting  principles.   Financial  information
included  elsewhere  in this report is consistent with  the  financial
statements.

       To   meet   its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  financial
information,  management maintains and enforces a system  of  internal
accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance,
on  a  cost-effective  basis,  as to the integrity,  objectivity,  and
reliability  of  the financial records, and as to  the  protection  of
assets.   This system includes communication through written  policies
and  procedures,  an employee Code of Conduct, and  an  organizational
structure that provides for appropriate division of responsibility and
the  training  of  personnel.   This  system  is  also  tested  by   a
comprehensive internal audit program.

       The   independent  public  accountants  provide  an   objective
assessment  of the degree to which management meets its responsibility
for  fairness  of  financial reporting.  They regularly  evaluate  the
system  of  internal accounting controls and perform  such  tests  and
other  procedures  as  they deem necessary to  reach  and  express  an
opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management  believes that these policies and procedures  provide
reasonable assurance that its operations are carried out with  a  high
standard of business conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                     /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                         GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    Senior Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer

                                   



                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                   AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                   
                                   
     The Entergy Corporation Board of Directors' Audit Committee
functions as the Audit Committee for Louisiana Power & Light Company.
The Audit Committee is comprised of four directors, who are not
officers of LP&L:  H. Duke Shackelford (Chairman), Lucie J. Fjeldstad,
Dr. Norman C. Francis, and James R. Nichols.  The committee held four
meetings during 1994.

      The  Audit Committee oversees LP&L's financial reporting process
on  behalf of the Board of Directors and provides reasonable assurance
to  the  Board  that sufficient operating, accounting,  and  financial
controls  are in existence and are adequately reviewed by programs  of
internal and external audits.

      The  Audit Committee discussed with Entergy's internal  auditors
and  the independent public accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.) the
overall scope and specific plans for their respective audits, as  well
as  LP&L's  financial statements and the adequacy of  LP&L's  internal
controls.   The committee met, together and separately, with Entergy's
internal   auditors   and  independent  public  accountants,   without
management  present,  to discuss the results of  their  audits,  their
evaluation  of  LP&L's internal controls, and the overall  quality  of
LP&L's  financial  reporting.   The meetings  also  were  designed  to
facilitate  and  encourage  any  private  communication  between   the
committee and the internal auditors or independent public accountants.



                                   /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                   H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                   Chairman, Audit Committee



                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Louisiana Power & Light Company

      We  have  audited the accompanying balance sheet  of  Louisiana
Power  &  Light  Company  as of December 31,  1994,  and  the  related
statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for  the  year
then ended.  These financial statements are the responsibility of  the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on
these  financial  statements  based  on  our  audit.   The  financial
statements  of the Company as of December 31, 1993 and for  the  years
ended  December  31,  1993 and 1992, were audited by  other  auditors,
whose  report,  dated  February  11,  1994,  included  an  explanatory
paragraph  that described changes in methods of accounting for  income
taxes  and  postretirement  benefits other  than  pensions  which  are
discussed   in  Notes  3  and  10  respectively,  to  these  financial
statements.

      We  conducted  our audit in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audit  provides   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our  opinion,  the financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position  of
the Company as of December 31, 1994, and the result  of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for  the year then  ended  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995


                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
     Louisiana Power & Light Company

     We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Louisiana Power
&  Light  Company  (LP&L) as of December 31,  1993,  and  the  related
statements  of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for  each  of
the  two years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements   are   the  responsibility  of  LP&L's  management.    Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial position of LP&L  at  December  31,
1993, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As  discussed in Notes 3 and 10 to the financial statements,  in
1993  LP&L  changed  its methods of accounting for  income  taxes  and
postretirement benefits other than pensions, respectively.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994

                                                    
                                                   
                                                    
                                                   
 
                                                          
                                                              
                    
                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


      Liquidity  is  important to LP&L due to  the  capital  intensive
nature of its business, which requires large investments in long-lived
assets. While large capital expenditures for the construction  of  new
generating  capacity  are  not currently planned,  LP&L  does  require
significant  capital  resources for the periodic maturity  of  certain
series of debt and preferred stock and ongoing construction.  Net cash
flow  from  operations totaled $368 million, $300  million,  and  $296
million  in  1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.  Net cash  flow  from
operations  in 1993 included payment of the last scheduled  refund  to
customers  of  proceeds from a settlement with  a  gas  supplier.   In
recent  years, this cash flow, supplemented by cash on hand, has  been
sufficient   to   meet  substantially  all  investing  and   financing
requirements,   including   capital   expenditures,   dividends,   and
debt/preferred stock maturities.  LP&L's ability to fund these capital
requirements  results,  in  part,  from  its  continued   efforts   to
streamline  operations and reduce costs, as well as collections  under
its  Waterford  3  rate phase-in plan which exceed  the  current  cash
requirements for Waterford 3-related costs.  (In the income statement,
these revenue collections are offset by the amortization of previously
deferred  costs; therefore, there is no effect on net income.)  LP&L's
Waterford  3 rate phase-in plan will continue to contribute to  LP&L's
cash position through 1996.  See Note 2 for additional information  on
LP&L's  rate phase-in plan.  See Note 8 for additional information  on
LP&L's  capital and refinancing requirements in 1995 - 1997. Also,  to
the  extent current market interest and dividend rates allow, LP&L may
continue  to  refinance high-cost debt and preferred  stock  prior  to
maturity.

     Earnings coverage tests and bondable property additions limit the
amount  of  first  mortgage bonds and preferred stock  that  LP&L  can
issue.   Based  on  the  most  restrictive  applicable  tests  as   of
December 31, 1994, and assuming an annual interest or dividend rate of
9.25%,  LP&L  could  have  issued $107  million  of  additional  first
mortgage  bonds  or  $784  million  of  additional  preferred   stock.
Further,  LP&L  has  the conditional ability to issue  first  mortgage
bonds  against the retirement of first mortgage bonds, in  some  cases
without satisfying an earnings coverage test.

      See Notes 5 and 6 for information on LP&L's financing activities
and  Note 4 for information on LP&L's short-term borrowings and  lines
of credit.
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
                     LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                          STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                            
                                        For the Years Ended December 31,
                                          1994        1993         1992
                                                  (In Thousands)
                                                                  
Operating Revenues                     $1,708,541   $1,729,666   $1,553,745
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
       
                                                                  
Operating Expenses:                                               
  Operation and maintenance:                                      
    Fuel and fuel-related expenses        331,422      338,670      256,313
    Purchased power                       366,564      381,252      335,750
    Nuclear refueling outage expenses      18,187       18,380       19,179
    Other operation and maintenance       348,980      340,320      324,020
  Depreciation and decommissioning        151,994      142,051      138,290
  Taxes other than income taxes            56,101       50,391       49,507
  Income taxes                             63,751      108,568       83,984
  Amortization of rate deferrals           28,422       28,422       28,422
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                           1,365,421    1,408,054    1,235,465
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                      
                                       
Operating Income                          343,120      321,612      318,280
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                     
                                       
Other Income (Deductions):                                        
  Allowance for equity funds used
   during construction                      3,486        2,581        1,714
  Miscellaneous - net                         747        2,069        6,676
  Income taxes                                463       (2,245)      (3,053)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                               4,696        2,405        5,337
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Interest Charges:                                                 
  Interest on long-term debt              129,952      130,352      135,772
  Other interest - net                      6,494        6,605        5,591
  Allowance for borrowed funds used
   during construction                     (2,469)      (1,748)        (735)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             133,977      135,209      140,628
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      

Net Income                                213,839      188,808      182,989
                                                                  
Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements
  and Other                                23,319       24,754       28,416
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Earnings Applicable to Common Stock      $190,520     $164,054     $154,573
                                       ==========   ==========   ==========
                                                                  
See Notes to Financial Statements.
                                                                  
                                                             
                       LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                       STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                                                       
                                            For the Years Ended December 31,
                                             1994        1993         1992
                                                     (In Thousands)
                                                                              
Retained Earnings, January 1                $89,849       $94,510     $117,820
  Add:                                                                        
    Net income                              213,839       188,808      182,989
                                           --------      --------     --------
        Total                               303,688       283,318      300,809
                                           --------      --------     --------  
  Deduct:                                                                     
    Dividends declared:                                                       
      Preferred stock                        22,359        24,553       28,416
      Common stock                          167,100       167,600      174,600
    Capital stock expenses                      809         1,316        3,283
                                           --------      --------     --------
     
        Total                               190,268       193,469      206,299
                                           --------      --------     --------
Retained Earnings, December 31 (Note 7)    $113,420      $ 89,849     $ 94,510
                                           ========      ========     ========
                                                                           
                                                                              
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                            
                                                             
                                   
                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

      Net income increased in 1994 due primarily to the fourth quarter
write-off  of  the  unamortized balances of  deferred  investment  tax
credits pursuant to the FERC settlement as discussed in Litigation and
Regulatory  Proceedings  below, partially  offset  by  lower  electric
operating   revenues  and  higher  other  operation  and   maintenance
expenses.  Net  income  increased in 1993 due primarily  to  increased
retail  energy  sales partially offset by the effects of  implementing
SFAS 109 and SFAS 106.

      Significant  factors  affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and  1992,
are discussed under "Revenues and Sales" and "Expenses" below.

Revenues and Sales

      See  "Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison," following
the  notes,  for information on operating revenues by source  and  KWH
sales.

      Operating  revenues  were lower in 1994  due  primarily  to  the
completion  of  the  amortization  of  the  proceeds  resulting   from
litigation  with  a  gas  supplier in the  second  quarter  and  lower
wholesale   revenues  partially  offset  by  higher  retail  revenues.
Wholesale  revenues  decreased due primarily to lower  sales  to  non-
associated  utilities.  Retail revenues  increased  due  primarily  to
increases in sales to industrial and commercial customers.

     Operating revenues were higher in 1993 due primarily to increased
residential  and  commercial energy sales resulting primarily  from  a
return  to more normal weather as compared to milder weather in  1992.
Industrial  energy sales also increased primarily in the petrochemical
industry.

Expenses

      Operating expenses decreased in 1994 due primarily to a decrease
in  income tax expense as a result of the write-off of the unamortized
balances  of  deferred  investment tax  credits  pursuant  to  a  FERC
settlement  and  lower fuel expense partially offset by  higher  other
operation  and maintenance expense. The decrease in fuel for  electric
generation  and fuel-related expenses and purchased power  expense  is
due  primarily to lower fuel and purchased power prices. The  increase
in  other  operation  and  maintenance expense  is  due  primarily  to
restructuring  costs  as discussed in Note 12 and  power  plant  waste
water site closures as discussed in Note 8.

     Operating expenses increased in 1993 due primarily to an increase
in   fuel   expense  because  of   increased  generation  requirements
resulting primarily from increased retail energy sales and higher fuel
costs.  Total income taxes increased in 1993 due primarily  to  higher
pretax  income, an increase in the federal income tax rate as a result
of OBRA, and the effect of implementing SFAS 109.

      Interest expense decreased in 1994 and 1993 as a result  of  the
refinancing of high cost debt during 1993 and 1992.
                    
                    
                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

       The   electric   utility  industry  is  becoming   increasingly
competitive and LP&L is seeking to become a leading competitor in  the
changing  electric  energy business.  Competition presents  LP&L  with
many  challenges.  The following have been identified by LP&L  as  its
major competitive challenges.

                   Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
       Increasing  competition  in  the  utility  industry  brings  an
increased  need  to  stabilize or reduce  retail  rates.   The  retail
regulatory   philosophy  is  shifting  in  some   jurisdictions   from
traditional  cost of service regulation to incentive rate  regulation.
Incentive and performance-based rate plans encourage efficiencies  and
productivity while permitting utilities and their customers  to  share
in  the  results.   In  August  1994, LP&L filed  a  performance-based
formula rate plan with the LPSC.  The proposed formula rate plan would
continue  existing  LP&L  rates  at current  levels,  while  providing
financial  incentive  to  reduce costs and  maintain  high  levels  of
customer   satisfaction  and  system  reliability.  Hearings were held
in  March  1995.  See  Note 2 for additional information.  Recognizing
that   many  industrial  customers  have  energy  alternatives,   LP&L
continues  to  work with these customers to address their  needs.   In
certain cases, competitive prices are negotiated, using variable  rate
design.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
area  of service, is also evolving.  Over a dozen states have been  or
are  studying the concept of retail competition.  In April  1994,  the
state of Michigan initiated a five-year experiment that allows limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  proposal  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  the  FERC issued a notice of proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

      In  the wholesale rate area, FERC approved in 1992, with certain
modifications,  the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  Entergy
Power to sell wholesale power at market-based rates and to provide  to
electric  utilities "open access" to the System's transmission  system
(subject  to  certain  requirements).  GSU was  later  added  to  this
filing.   On October 31, 1994, as amended on January 25, 1995, Entergy
Services  filed  with  FERC revised transmission tariffs  intended  to
provide  access  to  transmission service on the  same  or  comparable
basis,  terms,  and conditions as the System operating companies,  and
the  matter  is  pending.   Open access and market  pricing,  once  in
effect, will increase marketing opportunities for LP&L, but will  also
expose  LP&L  to the risk of loss of load or reduced revenues  due  to
competition with alternative suppliers.

     In light of the rate issues discussed above, LP&L is aggressively
reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions that might  result
as  well  as  to become more competitive.  In 1994, LP&L  announced  a
restructuring program related to certain of its operating units.  This
program   is   designed  to  reduce  costs  and    improve   operating
efficiencies.  See Note 12 for further information.  Also, in response
to  an increasingly competitive environment, LP&L announced intentions
to revise its initial least cost planning activities.

                     The Energy Policy Act of 1992

     The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering
the  way  Entergy  and  the  rest  of the  electric  utility  industry
operate.  The EPAct encourages competition and affords utilities  the
opportunities,  and  the  risks, associated  with  an  open  and  more
competitive  market  environment.  The EPAct creates  exemptions  from
regulation under the Holding Company Act and creates a class of exempt
wholesale generators consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities
that  are  owners and operators of facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC  the authority to order investor-owned utilities, including LP&L,
to  transmit  power  and  energy to or for  wholesale  purchasers  and
sellers.   The  law creates the potential for electric  utilities  and
other  power  producers to gain increased access to  the  transmission
systems  of other entities to facilitate wholesale sales.   Both  LP&L
and Entergy Power expect to compete in this market.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.   In  accordance  with the agreement, System  Energy  refunded
approximately $8.6 million to LP&L, which will make refunds or credits
to  its  customers  (except  for those portions  attributable  to  its
retained  share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).  Additionally,  System  Energy
will  refund a total of approximately $8.7 million, plus interest,  to
LP&L  over the period through June 2004.  The settlement also required
the  write-off  of  approximately $31.5  million  of  certain  related
unamortized balances of deferred investment tax credits by LP&L.

Property Tax Exemptions

      Exemption from the payment of Louisiana local property taxes  on
Waterford  3 , which has been in effect for 10 years, will  expire  in
December   1995.   LP&L  is  working  with  Louisiana   local   taxing
authorities to determine the method for calculating the amount of  the
property  taxes to be paid when the exemption expires.  LP&L  believes
that  assessed  property taxes will be recovered  from  its  customers
through rates.

Environmental Issues

      During  1993, the Louisiana Department of Environmental  Quality
issued  new  rules for solid waste regulation, including  waste  water
impoundments.   LP&L has determined that certain of  its  power  plant
waste  water  impoundments are affected by these regulations  and  has
chosen  to  either upgrade or close them. The aggregate  cost  of  the
upgrades and closures, to be completed by 1996, is estimated to be $16
million.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition and measurement of asset impairment. Certain operations of
LP&L  are  potentially affected by this standard,  and  any  resulting
write-offs  will  depend on future operating costs, generating  units'
efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy over the
remaining  life  of  the  units.  Based  on  current  estimates,  LP&L
anticipates that future revenues will fully recover the costs of  such
operations.

      Continued  Application of SFAS 71 - LP&L's financial  statements
currently  reflect  assets  and  costs  based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking  regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting  for
the  Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  As discussed above, the
electric utility industry is changing and these changes could possibly
result  in  the  discontinuance of the application of SFAS  71,  which
would  result in the elimination of regulatory assets and liabilities.
See Note 1 for further information.

      Accounting  for  Decommissioning Costs - The FASB  is  currently
reviewing  the accounting for decommissioning of nuclear plants.  This
project  could  possibly change the System's, as well  as  the  entire
utility   industry's,  accounting  for  such   costs.    For   further
information, see Note 8.


                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      LP&L  maintains  accounts  in accordance  with  FERC  and  other
regulatory guidelines.  Certain previously reported amounts have  been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      LP&L  records  revenues when billed to  its  customers  and,  in
addition,  accrues  revenue  for  the  nonfuel  portion  of  estimated
revenues for energy delivered since the latest billings.

      LP&L's rate schedules include fuel adjustment clauses that allow
deferral  of fuel costs until such costs are reflected in the  related
revenues.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  Partial disallowances
of  plant  cost  ordered by the regulators have been  recorded  as  an
adjustment  to  utility  plant.  The original cost  of  utility  plant
retired  or removed, plus the applicable removal costs, less  salvage,
is  charged  to accumulated depreciation.  Maintenance,  repairs,  and
minor   replacement   costs  are  charged   to   operating   expenses.
Substantially all of LP&L's utility plant is subject to  the  lien  of
its first mortgage indenture.  In addition, certain assets of LP&L are
subject  to the liens of second mortgages related to pollution control
revenue bonds.

     Utility plant includes the portions of Waterford 3 that were sold
and  are  currently under lease.  LP&L retired this property from  its
continuing  property records as formerly owned property released  from
and  no  longer subject to LP&L's first mortgage indenture.   LP&L  is
reflecting  such leased property for financial reporting  purposes  as
property  under lease from others and depreciating this property  over
the life of the plant.  See Note 9 for additional lease disclosure.

      Total LP&L net utility plant in service of $3.41 billion  as  of
December  31,  1994 includes $2.36 billion of production  plant,  $.24
billion of transmission plant, $.74 billion of distribution plant, and
$.07 billion of other plant.

      Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  basis  at  rates
based  on  the  estimated service lives and costs of  removal  of  the
various  classes  of  property.  Depreciation  provisions  on  average
depreciable property approximated 2.8% in 1994, 3.0% in 1993, and 2.9%
in 1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included  in rates.  LP&L's effective composite rates for  AFUDC  were
10.1%, 10.4%, and 10.7%, for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Income Taxes

      LP&L,  its  parent,  and affiliates file a consolidated  federal
income  tax  return.  Income taxes are allocated to LP&L in proportion
to  its  contribution to consolidated taxable income. SEC  regulations
require that no Entergy Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it
would  have  had  a separate income tax return been  filed.   Deferred
taxes  are  recorded for all temporary differences  between  book  and
taxable  income.   Investment tax credits are deferred  and  amortized
based  upon  the  average  useful life  of  the  related  property  in
accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note 3, in 1993  LP&L
changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

Reacquired Debt

      The premiums and costs associated with reacquired debt are being
amortized  over the life of the related new issuances,  in  accordance
with ratemaking treatment.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      LP&L  considers all unrestricted highly liquid debt  instruments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and a modified regulatory environment.  LP&L's  financial
statements  currently reflect assets and costs based on current  cost-
based  ratemaking regulations in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting
for   the   Effects  of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation."    Continued
applicability of SFAS 71 to LP&L's financial statements requires  that
rates  set  by  an  independent regulator on a cost of  service  basis
(including  a  reasonable  rate of return  on  invested  capital)  can
actually be charged to and collected from customers.

      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation or a change in  the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As  of December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future, LP&L's
financial statements continue to follow SFAS 71.

Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined by LP&L, using available market information and appropriate
valuation  methodologies.  However, considerable judgment is  required
in  developing the estimates of fair value.  Therefore, estimates  are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that LP&L could realize in a
current  market  exchange.  In addition, gains or losses  realized  on
financial instruments may be reflected in future rates and not  accrue
to the benefit of stockholders.

      LP&L  considers  the  carrying amounts of financial  instruments
classified  as  current  assets and liabilities  to  be  a  reasonable
estimate  of their fair value because of the short maturity  of  these
instruments.   In  addition,  LP&L  does  not  presently  expect  that
performance  of  its obligations will be required in  connection  with
certain   off-balance  sheet  commitments  and  guarantees  considered
financial instruments.  Due to this factor, and because of the related
party  nature  of  these commitments and guarantees, determination  of
fair  value is not considered practicable.  See Notes 5, 6, and 8  for
additional fair value disclosure.

      LP&L adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January 1, 1994.
As  a result, at December 31, 1994, LP&L recorded on the balance sheet
a   reduction   of  $1.1  million  in  decommissioning  trust   funds,
representing the amount by which the fair value of the securities held
in   such   funds  is  less  than  amounts  recovered  in  rates   for
decommissioning and deposited in the funds and the related earnings on
the   amounts   deposited.   Due  to  the  regulatory  treatment   for
decommissioning  trust funds, LP&L recorded an  offsetting  amount  in
unrealized losses on investment securities as a regulatory asset.


NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

LPSC Rate Review

      In August 1994, LP&L filed a performance-based formula rate plan
with the LPSC.  The proposed formula rate plan would continue existing
LP&L  rates at current levels, while providing financial incentive  to
reduce  costs  and  maintain high levels of customer satisfaction  and
system  reliability.  A performance rating adjustment feature  of  the
plan  would allow LP&L the opportunity to earn a higher rate of return
if  it  improves  performance over time.  Conversely,  if  performance
declines,  the rate of return LP&L could earn would be lowered.   This
provides   financial   incentive  for  LP&L  to  maintain   continuous
improvement  in  all  three  performance categories  (customer  price,
customer  satisfaction, and customer reliability).  Under the proposed
plan,  if  LP&L's earnings fall within a bandwidth around a  benchmark
rate  of  return,  there would be no adjustment in rates.   If  LP&L's
earnings   are   above   the  bandwidth,  the  proposed   plan   would
automatically  reduce  LP&L's base rates.   Alternatively,  if  LP&L's
earnings   are   below   the  bandwidth,  the  proposed   plan   would
automatically increase LP&L's base rates.  The reduction  or  increase
in  base  rates would be an amount representing 50% of the  difference
between  the  earned  rate  of return and the  nearest  limit  of  the
bandwidth.  In no event would the annual adjustment in rates exceed 2%
of  LP&L's  retail  revenues.  Hearings  were held in March 1995.   No 
assurance  can  be given that the LPSC  will  accept  the performance-
based formula rate plan, or  that  the  current  rate  review will not 
result in a rate decrease.

Waterford 3 and Grand Gulf 1

      In  a  series  of LPSC orders, court decisions,  and  agreements
between November 1985 and June 1988, LP&L was granted Waterford 3  and
Grand  Gulf  1  rate  relief.  In addition, LP&L, in  accordance  with
judicial  decisions and LPSC rate orders, deferred  a  net  amount  of
$266   million  of  its  Waterford  3  costs  related  to  the  period
November 14, 1985 through January 31, 1988.  These deferred costs  are
being recovered over approximately 8.6 years beginning in April 1988.

      In  November  1985, LP&L agreed to permanently absorb,  and  not
recover  from  its  retail customers, 18% of  its  14%  (approximately
2.52%)  FERC-allocated share of the costs of capacity  and  energy  of
Grand  Gulf  1. LP&L is allowed to recover through the fuel adjustment
clause  4.6  cents per KWH (as of May 1994) for the energy related  to
its retained portion of these costs. Alternatively, LP&L may sell such
energy  to  nonaffiliated parties at prices above the fuel  adjustment
clause recovery amount, subject to LPSC approval.  For the year  ended
December 31, 1994, $66 million was billed to LP&L by System Energy.

NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES


     Income tax expense consisted of the following:
                                                              

      Total  income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying
the  statutory  federal income tax rate to income before  taxes.   The
reasons for the differences were:

      
      Significant components of LP&L's net deferred tax liabilities as
of December 31, 1994 and 1993, were (in thousands):

                                                         1994          1993
    Deferred tax liabilities:                                      
     Net regulatory assets                           $  (437,468)   $ (422,371)
     Plant related basis differences                    (722,653)     (665,517)
     Rate deferrals                                      (26,695)      (40,737)
     Bond reacquisition loss                             (15,866)      (17,368)
     Other                                               (17,106)      (14,429)
                                                     -----------   -----------
      Total                                          $(1,219,788)  $(1,160,422)
                                                     ===========   ===========

    Deferred tax assets:                                           
     Unbilled revenues                               $    11,108    $   13,190
     Accumulated deferred investment tax credit           58,205        72,667
     Gas contract settlement                               7,539        12,917
     Removal cost                                         52,576        47,603
     Alternative minimum tax credit                       56,222        41,618
     Standard coal plant                                  12,561        12,898
     Waterford 3 sale/leaseback                          102,111        98,541
     Environmental reserve                                 6,308           476
     Other                                                32,915        31,644
                                                     -----------    ----------
      Total                                          $   339,545    $  331,554
                                                     ===========    ==========
     Net deferred tax liabilities                    $  (880,243)   $ (828,868)
                                                     ===========    ==========
     
     The alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit as of December 31, 1994,
was   $56.2   million.   This  AMT  credit  can  be  carried   forward
indefinitely  and will reduce LP&L's federal income tax  liability  in
future years.

      In  accordance with a System Energy FERC settlement,  LP&L wrote  
off  $31.5  million  of  unamortized  deferred  investment tax credits
in 1994.

      In 1993, LP&L adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that deferred
income   taxes   be   recorded  for  all  temporary  differences   and
carryforwards, and that deferred tax balances be based on enacted  tax
laws at tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences  reverse.   SFAS 109 required that  regulated  enterprises
recognize  adjustments  resulting from  implementation  as  regulatory
assets  or  liabilities if it is probable that such  amounts  will  be
recovered  from  or  returned  to  customers  in  future   rates.    A
substantial  majority  of the adjustments required  by  SFAS  109  was
recorded  to  deferred  tax  balance sheet  accounts  with  offsetting
adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities. As a result  of  the
adoption  of  SFAS 109, 1993 net income was reduced by  $5.7  million,
assets  were  increased  by  $309.7  million,  and  liabilities   were
increased by $315.4 million.  The cumulative effect of the adoption of
SFAS 109 is included in income tax expense charged to operations.

      In  August  1994, Entergy received an Internal  Revenue  Service
report  covering  the federal income tax audit of Entergy  Corporation
and subsidiaries for the years 1988 - 1990.  The report asserts an $80
million  tax deficiency for the 1990 consolidated federal  income  tax
returns related primarily to the application of accelerated investment
tax credits associated with Waterford 3 and Grand Gulf nuclear plants.
Entergy believes there is no material tax deficiency and is vigorously
contesting the proposed assessment.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

     The SEC has authorized LP&L to effect short-term borrowings up to
$150  million, which may be increased to as much as $236 million after
further   SEC  approval.   This  authorization  is  effective  through
November  30,  1996.   As of December 31, 1994, LP&L  had  outstanding
short-term  lines  of credit of $19.2 million from  banks  within  its
service  territory.   Interest rates associated with  these  lines  of
credit  generally  are based on the prime rate, the  London  interbank
offered rate, or a bid rate.  Commitment fees on these lines of credit
are  .125% of the amount of available credit.  In addition,  LP&L  can
borrow from the Money Pool, subject to its maximum authorized level of
short-term  borrowings and the availability of  funds.   LP&L  had  $8
million of outstanding borrowings under the Money Pool arrangement  as
of December 31, 1994.


NOTE 5.   PREFERRED STOCK

      The  number of shares and dollar value of LP&L's preferred stock
were:

(1)  These series are not redeemable as of December 31, 1994.

      The  fair value of LP&L's preferred stock with sinking fund  was
estimated to be approximately $113.0 million and $141.9 million as  of
December  31,  1994  and 1993, respectively.   The  fair  values  were
determined  using  quoted market prices or estimates  from  nationally
recognized  investment  banking  firms.  See  Note  1  for  additional
information on disclosure of fair value of financial instruments.

     Changes in preferred stock, with and without sinking fund, during
the last three years were:
                                               Number of Shares
                                         1994         1993        1992
                 
      Preferred stock issuances:                          
        $100 par value                        -            -       500,000
        $25 par value                         -            -     1,480,000
      Preferred stock retirements:                          
        $100 par value                        -            -      (370,000)
        $25 par value                  (601,537)    (900,000)   (1,015,160)

      Cash  sinking  fund  requirements for the next  five  years  for
preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 1994 are (in millions):
1995  - $6.8; 1996 - $4.5; 1997 - $3.8; 1998 - $3.8; and 1999 - $53.8.
LP&L   has  the  annual  non-cumulative  option  to  redeem,  at  par,
additional  amounts  of  certain series of its  outstanding  preferred
stock.


NOTE 6.   LONG-TERM DEBT

     LP&L's long-term debt as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, was:

   Maturities        Interest Rates
  From   To         From     To                    1994          1993
                                                     (In Thousands)
 First Mortgage Bonds
  1995   1999       5-5/8%   10.36%              $ 179,000   $   204,000
  2000   2004       6%       8%                    361,520       361,520
  2020   2022       8-1/2%   10-1/8%               185,000       185,000
                                                            
 Governmental Obligations*
  1994   2009       6-2/5%   8%                     40,472        37,794
  2010   2023       5.95%    8-1/4%                367,400       350,000
Waterford 3 Lease Obligation, 8.76% (Note 9)       353,600       353,600
Unamortized Premium and Discount - Net              (8,617)       (8,973)
                                                ----------    ----------
  Total Long-Term Debt                           1,478,375     1,482,941
Less Amount Due Within One Year                     75,320        25,315
                                                ----------    ----------
Long-Term Debt Excluding Amount Due Within One  $1,403,055    $1,457,626
  Year                                          ==========    ==========

 * Consists  of pollution control bonds, certain series of  which  are
   secured by non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds.

      The  fair value of LP&L's long-term debt, excluding Waterford  3
lease obligation and long-term Purchase Agreement, as of December  31,
1994  and  1993  was  estimated to be $1,089.2  million  and  $1,205.1
million,  respectively.  The fair values were determined using  quoted
market  prices  or  estimates  from nationally  recognized  investment
banking firms.  See Note 1 for additional information on disclosure of
fair value of financial instruments.

      For  the  years  1995,  1996, 1997, 1998,  and  1999,  LP&L  has
long-term  debt maturities and cash sinking fund requirements  of  (in
millions):  $75.3,  $35.3, $34.3, $35.3 and  $0.2,  respectively.   In
addition,   other   sinking   fund   requirements   of   approximately
$5.9 million annually may be satisfied by cash or by certification  of
property additions at the rate of 167% of such requirements.


NOTE 7.   DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

      LP&L's  Restated  Articles  of Incorporation,  as  amended,  and
certain  of its indentures, contain provisions restricting the payment
of  cash  dividends  or other distributions on common  stock.   As  of
December  31,  1994, none of LP&L's retained earnings were  restricted
against the payment of cash dividends or other distributions on common
stock.   On  February 1, 1995, LP&L paid Entergy Corporation  a  $55.7
million cash dividend on common stock.


NOTE 8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Capital Requirements and Financing

      Construction expenditures (excluding nuclear fuel) for the years
1995,  1996, and 1997 are estimated to total $115.4 million each year.
LP&L  will  also require $160 million during the period  1995-1997  to
meet  long-term debt and preferred stock maturities and  cash  sinking
fund  requirements.   LP&L plans to meet the above  requirements  with
internally  generated  funds and cash on  hand,  supplemented  by  the
issuance of debt.  See Notes 5 and 6 regarding the possible refunding,
redemption,  purchase  or  other acquisition  of  certain  outstanding
series of preferred stock and long-term debt.

Unit Power Sales Agreement

      System Energy has agreed to sell all of its 90% owned and leased
share  of  capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI  in accordance with specified percentages (AP&L  36%,  LP&L
14%,  MP&L 33%, and NOPSI 17%) as ordered by FERC.  Charges under this
agreement  are paid in consideration for LP&L's respective entitlement
to  receive capacity and energy, and are payable irrespective  of  the
quantity of energy delivered so long as the unit remains in commercial
operation.   The agreement will remain in effect until  terminated  by
the  parties  and approved by FERC, most likely upon  Grand  Gulf  1's
retirement from service.  LP&L's monthly obligation for payments under
the agreement is approximately $7 million.

Availability Agreement

      AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are individually obligated to  make
payments or subordinated advances to System Energy in accordance  with
stated  percentages  (AP&L 17.1%, LP&L 26.9%, MP&L  31.3%,  and  NOPSI
24.7%)  in amounts that when added to amounts received under the  Unit
Power  Sales  Agreement or otherwise, are adequate  to  cover  all  of
System  Energy's  operating expenses. System Energy has  assigned  its
rights  to payments and advances to certain creditors as security  for
certain  obligations.  Since commercial operation  of  Grand  Gulf  1,
payments  under  the  Unit  Power Sales Agreement  have  exceeded  the
amounts  payable  under the Availability Agreement.   Accordingly,  no
payments  have ever been required.  If AP&L, MP&L, or NOPSI  fails  to
make  its  Unit Power Sales Agreement payments, and System  Energy  is
unable  to  obtain funds from other sources, LP&L could be liable  for
payments to System Energy, in amounts that cannot be determined,  over
and above its payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.

Reallocation Agreement

      System  Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI entered into  the
Reallocation  Agreement relating to the sale of  capacity  and  energy
from  the  Grand  Gulf Station and the related costs, in  which  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI agreed to assume all of AP&L's responsibilities  and
obligations  with  respect  to  the  Grand  Gulf  Station  under   the
Availability Agreement.  FERC's decision allocating a portion of Grand
Gulf  1  capacity  and  energy  to AP&L  supersedes  the  Reallocation
Agreement as it relates to Grand Gulf 1.  Responsibility for any Grand
Gulf  2  amortization  amounts has been individually  allocated  (LP&L
26.23%,  MP&L  43.97%,  and  NOPSI 29.80%)  under  the  terms  of  the
Reallocation Agreement. However, the Reallocation Agreement  does  not
affect  AP&L's  obligation  to  System  Energy's  lenders  under   the
assignments  referred to in the preceding paragraph.   AP&L  would  be
liable  for  its share of such amounts if LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI  were
unable  to  meet  their contractual obligations.  No payments  of  any
amortization  amounts  will be required as long  as  amounts  paid  to
System  Energy  under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, including  other
funds  available to System Energy, exceed amounts required  under  the
Availability  Agreement, which is expected to  be  the  case  for  the
foreseeable future.

System Fuels

      LP&L  has  a  33%  interest in System  Fuels,  a  jointly  owned
subsidiary  of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  The parent  companies  of
System Fuels, including LP&L, agreed to make loans to System Fuels  to
finance its fuel procurement, delivery, and storage activities.  As of
December  31,  1994,  LP&L had approximately $14.2  million  of  loans
outstanding to System Fuels which mature in 2008.

      In  addition,  System  Fuels entered  into  a  revolving  credit
agreement  with  a  bank that provides $45 million  in  borrowings  to
finance  System  Fuels'  nuclear  materials  and  services  inventory.
Should  System  Fuels  default  on its obligations  under  its  credit
agreement,  AP&L, LP&L, and System Energy have agreed to purchase  the
nuclear materials and services financed under the agreement.

Long-Term Contracts

      LP&L has a long-term agreement through the year 2031 to purchase
energy generated by a hydroelectric facility.  During 1994, 1993,  and
1992,   LP&L   made  payments  under  the  contract  of  approximately
$56.3 million, $66.9 million, and $39.1 million, respectively.  If the
maximum  percentage  (94%) of the energy is made  available  to  LP&L,
current  production  projections would require estimated  payments  of
approximately $47 million per year through 1996, $54 million in  1997,
and  a  total of $3.5 billion for the years 1998 through  2031.   LP&L
recovers  the  costs of purchased energy through its  fuel  adjustment
clause.

      In  June 1992, LP&L agreed to a renegotiated 20-year natural gas
supply  contract.  LP&L has agreed to purchase natural gas  in  annual
amounts equal to approximately one-third of its projected annual  fuel
requirements  for  certain generating units.   Annual  demand  charges
associated  with this contract are estimated to be $9 million  through
1997,  and  a  total of $124 million for the years 1998 through  2012.
LP&L  recovers  the  cost of fuel consumed during  the  generation  of
electricity through its fuel adjustment clause.

Nuclear Insurance

      The  Price-Anderson  Act limits public liability  for  a  single
nuclear  incident to approximately $8.92 billion as  of  December  31,
1994.  LP&L has protection for this liability through a combination of
private  insurance (currently $200 million) and an industry assessment
program.  Under the assessment program, the maximum amount that  would
be  required  for  each nuclear incident would be  $79.3  million  per
reactor,  payable  at a rate of $10 million per licensed  reactor  per
incident per year.  LP&L has one licensed reactor.  In addition,  LP&L
participates  in  a private insurance program which provides  coverage
for  worker  tort claims filed for bodily injury caused  by  radiation
exposure.  LP&L's maximum assessment under the program is an aggregate
of  approximately $3.2 million in the event losses exceed  accumulated
reserve funds.

      LP&L  is  a  member of certain insurance programs  that  provide
coverage  for property damage, including decontamination and premature
decommissioning expense, to members' nuclear generating plants.  As of
December  31,  1994,  LP&L  was insured  against  such  losses  up  to
$2.75  billion, with $250 million of this amount designated  to  cover
any  shortfall in the NRC required decommissioning trust funding.   In
addition, LP&L is a member of an insurance program that covers certain
costs  of replacement power and business interruption incurred due  to
prolonged  nuclear  unit  outages.   Under  the  property  damage  and
replacement power/business interruption insurance programs, LP&L could
be  subject  to  assessments if losses exceed  the  accumulated  funds
available  to  the  insurers.  As of December 31,  1994,  the  maximum
amount of such possible assessments to LP&L was $34.7 million.

      The  amount  of  property insurance presently  carried  by  LP&L
exceeds  the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's (NRC) minimum requirement
for  nuclear  power plant licensees of $1.06 billion  per  site.   NRC
regulations provide that the proceeds of this insurance must be  used,
first,  to  place  and  maintain the reactor  in  a  safe  and  stable
condition  and, second, to complete decontamination operations.   Only
after  proceeds are dedicated for such use and regulatory approval  is
secured,  would  any  remaining proceeds be  made  available  for  the
benefit of plant owners or their creditors.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

      LP&L  provides  for estimated future disposal  costs  for  spent
nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of  1982.
LP&L  entered  into  a  contract with the DOE, whereby  the  DOE  will
furnish  disposal service at a cost of one mill per net KWH  generated
and sold. The fees payable to the DOE may be adjusted in the future to
assure  full  recovery.  LP&L considers all costs incurred  or  to  be
incurred,  except accrued interest, for the disposal of spent  nuclear
fuel  to  be proper components of nuclear fuel expense, and provisions
to recover such costs have been accepted by the LPSC.

      Delays have occurred in the DOE's program for the acceptance and
disposal  of  spent  nuclear  fuel at a permanent  repository.   In  a
statement  released February 17, 1993, the DOE asserted that  it  does
not  have  a legal obligation to accept spent nuclear fuel without  an
operational  repository for which it has not yet arranged.   Currently
the  DOE  projects it will begin to accept spent fuel no earlier  than
2010.   In  the meantime, LP&L is responsible for spent fuel  storage.
Current  on-site  spent  fuel  storage  capacity  at  Waterford  3  is
estimated to be sufficient until 2000.  Thereafter, LP&L will  provide
additional   storage  capacity  at  an  estimated  initial   cost   of
$5.0   million   to   $10.0   million.   In  addition,   approximately
$3.0 million to $5.0 million will be required every four to five years
subsequent  to  2000  until  the  DOE's  repository  begins  accepting
Waterford 3's spent fuel.

      Entergy  Operations and System Fuels joined in lawsuits  against
the  DOE, seeking clarification of the DOE's responsibility to receive
spent nuclear fuel beginning in 1998.  The original suits, filed  June
20, 1994, asked for a ruling stating that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act
require  the DOE to begin taking title to the spent fuel and to  start
removing it from nuclear power plants in 1998, a mandate for the DOE's
nuclear  waste management program to begin accepting fuel in 1998  and
court  monitoring  of  the program, and the potential  for  escrow  of
payments to a nuclear waste fund instead of directly to the DOE.

      Decommissioning  costs  for Waterford 3  were  estimated  to  be
$203.0  million  (in  1988 dollars), based on a  1988  update  to  the
original cost study.  LP&L had LPSC authorization to fund and  recover
$4.0 million of decommissioning costs annually through 1993, based  on
the  1988  study  update.   LP&L  has funded  at  an  annual  rate  of
$4.8  million  since January 1994, in anticipation  of  a  1994  study
update  and  a  related LPSC review and determination  of  appropriate
funding  levels.  The updated cost study completed in  1994  (in  1993
dollars) reflected a cost of decommissioning of $320.1 million.   LP&L
filed  the  updated  cost study with the LPSC  and  requested  a  rate
adjustment for decommissioning expense, which is being reviewed.   The
amounts recovered in rates are deposited in an external trust fund and
are  reported  at   market  value.   The  accumulated  decommissioning
liability  of $28.2 million as of December 31, 1994 has been  recorded
in accumulated depreciation.  Decommissioning expense in the amount of
$4.8  million was recorded in 1994.  The actual decommissioning  costs
may  vary from the above estimates because of regulatory requirements,
changes  in  technology, and increased costs of labor, materials,  and
equipment.  Management believes that actual decommissioning costs  are
likely to be higher than the amounts presented above.

      The  staff  of  the SEC has questioned certain  of  the  current
accounting  practices of the electric utility industry, regarding  the
recognition, measurement, and classification of decommissioning  costs
for  nuclear  generating  stations  in  the  financial  statements  of
electric utilities.  In response to these questions, FASB is currently
reviewing  the  accounting for decommissioning.  If  current  electric
utility  industry  accounting practices for such  decommissioning  are
changed,  annual  provisions for decommissioning could  increase,  the
estimated  cost for decommissioning could be recorded as  a  liability
rather  than  as accumulated depreciation, and trust fund income  from
the  external  decommissioning trusts could be reported as  investment
income rather than as a reduction to decommissioning expense.

      The  EPAct  has  a  provision  that  assesses  domestic  nuclear
utilities with fees for the decontamination and decommissioning of the
DOE's  past  uranium  enrichment operations.  The decontamination  and
decommissioning assessments will be used to set up a fund  into  which
contributions  from  utilities  and the  federal  government  will  be
placed.  LP&L's annual assessment, which will be adjusted annually for
inflation,  is  $1.3  million (in 1995 dollars) for  approximately  15
years.  FERC requires that utilities treat these assessments as  costs
of   fuel  as  they  are  amortized.   The  cumulative  liability   of
$14.5  million  at  December  31, 1994 is recorded  in  other  current
liabilities  and  other  noncurrent  liabilities,  according  to  FERC
guidelines, and is offset in the financial statements by a  regulatory
asset.

Sales/Use Tax Issues

      In September 1994, the Louisiana Supreme Court (Court) issued an
opinion (in a case in which none of the System companies was a  party)
holding, in part, that the Louisiana state legislature's suspension of
state  sales and use tax exemptions also had the effect of  suspending
exemptions  from local sales and use taxes.  On January 27,  1995  the
Court,  after rehearing, reversed its opinion.  Because of the Court's
most  recent  ruling, sales of electricity and gas,  fuels  and  other
items  used by LP&L to generate electricity in Louisiana, as  well  as
other  items  exempt from sales and use taxes, continue to  be  exempt
from  local sales and use taxes, even though the state exemptions  for
sales and use tax have been suspended.

Environmental Issues

      During  1993, the Louisiana Department of Environmental  Quality
issued  new  rules for solid waste regulation, including  waste  water
impoundments.   LP&L has determined that certain of  its  power  plant
waste  water  impoundments are affected by these regulations  and  has
chosen  to  either upgrade or close them. The aggregate  cost  of  the
upgrades and closures, to be completed by 1996, is estimated to be $16
million.


NOTE 9.   LEASES

General

      As of December 31, 1994, LP&L had noncancelable operating leases
with minimum lease payments as follows (in thousands):

     1995                                      $  4,395
     1996                                         4,038
     1997                                         3,924
     1998                                         3,811
     1999                                         3,505
     Years thereafter                             3,413
                                               --------
     Minimum lease payments                    $ 23,086
                                               ========

      Rental  expense  for operating leases amounted to  approximately
$12.1 million, $6.6 million, and $8.7 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

Nuclear Fuel Lease

      LP&L has an arrangement to lease nuclear fuel in an amount up to
$95  million.   The lessor finances its acquisition  of  nuclear  fuel
through  a  credit  agreement and the issuance of notes.   The  credit
agreement,  which  was  entered into in 1989,  has  been  extended  to
January 1998, and the notes have varying remaining maturities of up to
4  years.  It is expected that the credit arrangement will be extended
or  alternative  financing will be secured  by  the  lessor  upon  the
maturity  of  the current arrangements.  If the lessor cannot  arrange
for  alternative financing upon maturity of its borrowings, LP&L  must
purchase nuclear fuel in an amount sufficient to enable the lessor  to
retire such borrowings.

     Lease payments are based on nuclear fuel use.  Nuclear fuel lease
expense  of $32.2 million, $39.9 million, and $38.3 million (including
interest of $4.3 million, $4.9 million, and $5.4 million) was  charged
to operations in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Waterford 3 Lease Obligations

      On  September  28,  1989, LP&L entered into three  substantially
identical,  but entirely separate, transactions for the sale  (for  an
aggregate cash consideration of $353.6 million) and leaseback of three
undivided portions of its 100% ownership interest in Waterford 3.  The
three  undivided interests in Waterford 3 sold and leased back exclude
certain transmission, pollution control, and other facilities that are
part of Waterford 3.  The interests sold and leased back, as described
above, are equivalent on an aggregate cost basis to approximately 9.3%
of  Waterford 3.  The sales were made to an Owner Trustee under  three
separate,   but   identical,  trust  agreements   with   three   Owner
Participants.  LP&L is leasing back the sold interests from the  Owner
Trustee  on a net lease basis over an approximate 28-year basic  lease
term.   LP&L has options to terminate the lease and to repurchase  the
sold  interests in Waterford 3 at certain intervals during  the  basic
lease term.  Further, at the end of the basic lease term, LP&L has  an
option to renew the lease or to repurchase the undivided interests  in
Waterford 3.

      The Owner Trustee acquired the interests with funds provided  by
the  Owner Participants and with funds obtained from the issuance  and
sale  by  the Owner Trustee of intermediate-term and long-term  bonds.
The  lease  payments to be made by LP&L will be sufficient to  service
the debt incurred by the Owner Trustee.

      LP&L  did  not  exercise its option to repurchase the  undivided
interests in Waterford 3 on the fifth anniversary (September 1994)  of
the closing date of the sale and leaseback transactions.  As a result,
LP&L was required to provide collateral to the Owner Participants  for
the equity portion of certain amounts payable by LP&L under the lease.
Such  collateral  was  in  the form of a new  series  of  non-interest
bearing  first  mortgage bonds in the aggregate  principal  amount  of
$208.2  million  issued  by LP&L in September  1994  under  its  first
mortgage bond indenture.

      Upon  the occurrence of certain adverse events (including  lease
events  of  default,  events of loss, deemed loss  events  or  certain
adverse  "Financial  Events"  with  respect  to  LP&L),  LP&L  may  be
obligated  to  pay amounts sufficient to permit the Owner Participants
to  withdraw  from the lease transactions and LP&L may be required  to
assume  the  outstanding bonds issued by the Owner Trustee to  finance
its acquisition of the undivided interests in Waterford 3.  "Financial
Events"  include, among other things, failure by LP&L,  following  the
expiration of any applicable grace or cure periods, to maintain (1) as
of  the  end  of  any fiscal quarter, total equity capital  (including
preferred stock) at least equal to 30% of adjusted capitalization,  or
(2)  in  respect of the 12-month period ending on the last day of  any
fiscal quarter, a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.50.  As of
December  31,  1994, LP&L's total equity capital (including  preferred
stock)  was  49.10% of adjusted capitalization and  its  fixed  charge
coverage ratio was 3.01.

      In  accordance  with SFAS 98, "Accounting for  Leases,"  due  to
"continuing involvement" by LP&L, the sale and leaseback  by  LP&L  of
the  undivided  portions  of  Waterford 3,  as  described  above,  are
required to be reflected for financial reporting purposes as financing
transactions in LP&L's financial statements even though such  portions
are  no  longer  owned  by LP&L.  See Note 1 for  further  information
regarding financial reporting treatment.

      As  of December 31, 1994, LP&L had future minimum lease payments
(reflecting an overall implicit rate of 8.76%) in connection with  the
Waterford 3 sale and leaseback transactions as follows (in thousands):

     1995                                             $ 32,569
     1996                                               35,165
     1997                                               39,805
     1998                                               41,447
     1999                                               50,530
     Years thereafter                                  676,214
                                                      --------
     Minimum lease payments                           $875,730
                                                      ========

NOTE 10.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

      LP&L  has  a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially
all  of  its  employees.   The  pension plan  is  noncontributory  and
provides  pension  benefits based on employees' credited  service  and
average  compensation,  generally during the last  five  years  before
retirement.   LP&L funds pension costs in accordance with contribution
guidelines established by the Employee Retirement Income Security  Act
of  1974,  as  amended,  and the Internal Revenue  Code  of  1986,  as
amended.   The  assets  of the plan consist primarily  of  common  and
preferred stocks, fixed income securities, interest in a money  market
fund, and insurance contracts.

      LP&L's  1994,  1993,  and 1992 pension cost,  including  amounts
capitalized, included the following components:

                                              For the Years Ended December 31,
                                                      1994     1993     1992
                                                         (In Thousands)

   Service cost - benefits earned during the period  $5,441   $4,900   $4,307
   Interest cost on projected benefit obligation     14,473   14,684   14,110
   Actual return on plan assets                       2,024  (26,533) (14,329)
   Net amortization and deferral                    (19,981)   8,712   (3,113)
                                                    -------  -------  -------
   Net pension cost                                  $1,957   $1,763     $975
                                                    =======  =======  =======
      
      The funded status of LP&L's pension plan as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, was (excluding amounts allocable to NOPSI):

      The  significant  actuarial assumptions used  in  computing  the
information above for 1994, 1993, and 1992 were as follows:   weighted
average discount rate, 8.5% for 1994, 7.5% for 1993 and 8.25% for 1992
;  weighted  average  rate of increase in future compensation  levels,
5.1%  for 1994 and 5.6% for 1993 and 1992; and expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets, 8.5%.  Transition assets are being amortized
over 15 years.

Other Postretirement Benefits

      LP&L  also  provides  certain health  care  and  life  insurance
benefits  for  retired  employees.  Substantially  all  employees  may
become eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age  while
still  working  for  LP&L.   The  cost of  providing  these  benefits,
recorded  on  a  cash  basis, to retirees in  1992  was  approximately
$3.7 million.

      Effective January 1, 1993, LP&L adopted SFAS 106.  This standard
required  a  change  from  a  cash method  to  an  accrual  method  of
accounting  for  postretirement benefits other  than  pensions.   LP&L
continues  to  fund these benefits on a pay-as-you-go  basis.   As  of
January 1, 1993, the actuarially determined accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO) earned by retirees and active employees  was
estimated to be approximately $59.4 million.  This obligation is being
amortized over a 20-year period beginning in 1993.

      The  LPSC  ordered  LP&L  to use the  pay-as-you-go  method  for
ratemaking  purposes for postretirement benefits other than  pensions,
but  the LPSC retains the flexibility to examine individual companies'
accounting  for  postretirement  benefits  to  determine  if   special
exceptions to this order are warranted.

      LP&L's  1994  and  1993 postretirement benefit  cost,  including
amounts capitalized and deferred, included the following components:

                                                         1994      1993
                                                         (In Thousands)
                                                       
     Service cost - benefits earned during the period   $2,433    $2,083
     Interest cost on APBO                               4,422     4,749
     Net amortization and deferral                       3,066     2,971
                                                        ------    ------
     Net periodic postretirement benefit cost           $9,921    $9,803
                                                        ======    ======
      The  funded status of LP&L's postretirement plan as of  December
31, 1994 and 1993, was as follows:

                                               1994      1993
                                               (In Thousands)
                                                       
     Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
      Retirees                                      $ 38,401   $ 41,769
      Other fully eligible participants                8,550      6,825
      Other active participants                        9,695     21,085
                                                    --------   --------
                                                      56,646     69,679
     Plan assets at fair value                             -          -
                                                    --------   --------
     Plan assets less than APBO                      (56,646)   (69,679)
     Unrecognized transition obligation               53,488     56,459
     Unrecognized net loss (gain)                     (8,253)     7,579
                                                    --------   --------
     Accrued postretirement benefit liability       $(11,411)  $ (5,641)
                                                    ========   ========

      The  assumed  health care cost trend rate used in measuring  the
APBO  was  9.4%  for 1995, gradually decreasing each  successive  year
until  it reaches 5% in 2011.  A one percentage-point increase in  the
assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would have increased
the  APBO as of December 31, 1994, by 8.9% and the sum of the  service
cost  and  interest cost by approximately 11.4%.  The assumed discount
rate  and  rate of increase in future compensation used in determining
the  APBO  were 8.5% for 1994 and 7.5% for 1993 and 5.1% for 1994  and
5.5% for 1993, respectively.


NOTE 11.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

      LP&L buys electricity from and/or sells electricity to the other
System  operating  companies and System Energy  under  rate  schedules
filed  with FERC.  In addition, LP&L purchases fuel from System Fuels,
receives  technical and advisory services from Entergy  Services,  and
receives operating services from Entergy Operations.

      Operating  revenues  include revenues from sales  to  affiliates
amounting  to  $1.0  million  in  1994,  $4.8  million  in  1993,  and
$5.5  million  in  1992.   Operating  expenses  include  charges  from
affiliates  for  fuel  costs,  purchased power  and  related  charges,
management  services,  and  technical and advisory  services  totaling
$365.8  million in 1994, $322 million in 1993, and $314.3  million  in
1992.   LP&L  pays directly or reimburses Entergy Operations  for  the
costs  associated with operating Waterford 3 (excluding nuclear fuel),
which  were  approximately $152.5 million in 1994, $118.9  million  in
1993, and $152.1 million in 1992.


NOTE 12.  RESTRUCTURING COSTS

      During the third quarter of 1994, LP&L announced a restructuring
program  related to certain of its operating units.   The  program  is
designed to reduce costs, improve operating efficiencies, and increase
shareholder  value  in  order to enable  LP&L  to  become  a  low-cost
producer.   The program includes reductions in the number of employees
and  the  consolidation  of  offices and facilities.   In  1994,  LP&L
recorded   restructuring  charges  of  $6.8  million.  These   charges
primarily  include employee severance costs related  to  the  expected
termination of approximately 296 employees.  As of December 31,  1994,
no  employees  have been terminated and no termination  benefits  have
been paid under this restructuring program.


NOTE 13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     LP&L's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations with the peak
period occurring during the third quarter.  Operating results for  the
four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                              Operating      Operating     Net
                               Revenues       Income     Income
                                         (In Thousands)
     1994:                                            
       First Quarter            $383,826     $ 68,668    $37,096
       Second Quarter           $441,643     $ 80,686    $48,353
       Third Quarter            $502,458     $ 99,824    $67,029
       Fourth Quarter           $380,614     $ 93,942    $61,361
     1993:                                            
       First Quarter            $357,856     $ 56,875    $25,733
       Second Quarter           $399,570     $ 79,472    $46,932
       Third Quarter            $545,487     $124,789    $92,287
       Fourth Quarter           $426,753     $ 60,476    $23,856

     See  "Significant  Factors  and Known  Trends  -  Litigation  and
     Regulatory  Proceedings" for information regarding the  write-off
     of  certain  unamortized deferred investment tax credits  in  the
     fourth quarter of 1994.
                                   



(1)  Includes  long-term  debt  (excluding currently  maturing  debt),
     preferred  stock with sinking fund, and noncurrent capital  lease
     obligations.

     See Notes 3 and 10 for the effect of accounting changes in 1993.

                          1994      1993      1992      1991      1990
                                        (Dollars in Thousands)
Operating Revenues:                                             
 Residential          $577,084    $572,738    $518,255    $525,594    $520,800
 Commercial            358,672     345,254     320,688     318,613     314,700
 Industrial            659,061     652,574     578,741     558,036     532,800
 Governmental           31,679      29,723      27,780      28,303      26,500
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Total retail       1,626,496   1,600,289   1,445,464   1,430,546   1,394,800
 Sales for resale       35,406      49,388      38,632      31,997      41,800
 Other                  46,639      79,989      69,649      66,391      49,000
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Total             $1,708,541  $1,729,666  $1,553,745  $1,528,934  $1,485,600
                    ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ========== 
                                         

Billed Electric Energy
 Sales (Millions of KWH):
 Residential             7,449       7,368       6,996       7,182       7,169
 Commercial              4,631       4,435       4,307       4,367       4,299
 Industrial             16,561      15,914      15,013      14,832      14,170
 Governmental              423         398         385         405         382
                        ------      ------      ------      ------      ------
  Total retail          29,064      28,115      26,701      26,786      26,020
 Sales for resale          786       1,325       1,305       1,201       1,149
                        ------      ------      ------      ------      ------ 
                              
  Total                 29,850      29,440      28,006      27,987      27,169
                        ======      ======      ======      ======      ======
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   
                   Mississippi Power & Light Company
                                   
                                   
                                   
                       1994 Financial Statements
                   

                   
                   
                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              DEFINITIONS
                                   
                                   
      Certain  abbreviations  or acronyms  used  in  MP&L's  Financial
Statements, Notes to Financial Statements, and Management's  Financial
Discussion and Analysis are defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym                 Term

AFUDC                    Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

AP&L                     Arkansas Power & Light Company

Entergy or System        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Services         Entergy Services, Inc.

EPAct                    The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                     Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC                     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

Final Order on Rehearing An  order issued by the MPSC on September 16,
                         1985,  with  respect  to  MP&L's  Grand  Gulf
                         1-related rate issues

G&R Bonds                General  and Refunding Mortgage Bonds  issued
                         and  issuable under MP&L's G&R Mortgage dated
                         as of February 1, 1988, as amended

G&R Mortgage             General and Refunding Mortgage established by
                         MP&L  effective February 1, 1988, to  provide
                         for issuances of G&R Bonds

Grand Gulf Station       Grand  Gulf Steam Electric Generating Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 1             Unit   No.  1  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2             Unit   No.  2  of  the  Grand  Gulf   Station
                         (nuclear)

GSU                      Gulf   States  Utilities  Company  (including
                         wholly    owned   subsidiaries   -    Varibus
                         Corporation, GSG&T, Inc., Prudential Oil  and
                         Gas, Inc., and Southern Gulf Railway Company)

Independence Station     Independence   Steam   Electric    Generating
                         Station

KWH                      Kilowatt-Hours

LP&L                     Louisiana Power & Light Company

MWH                      Megawatt-Hours

Merger                   The combination transaction, consummated  on
                         December 31, 1993, by which GSU became a
                         subsidiary of Entergy Corporation and Entergy
                         Corporation became a Delaware Corporation

Money Pool               Entergy  Money  Pool,  which  allows  certain
                         System companies to borrow from, or lend  to,
                         certain other System companies

MP&L                     Mississippi Power & Light Company

MPSC                     Mississippi Public Service Commission

NOPSI                    New Orleans Public Service Inc.

OBRA                     Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993

Revised Plan             MP&L's  Grand  Gulf 1-related  rate  phase-in
                         plan, originally approved by the MPSC in  the
                         Final Order on Rehearing, as modified by  the
                         MPSC   order  issued September 29,  1988,  to
                         bring  such  plan  into compliance  with  the
                         requirements  of SFAS 92

SEC                      Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                     Statement  of Financial Accounting  Standards
                         promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                 SFAS   106,   "Employers'   Accounting    for
                         Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"

SFAS 109                 SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System Energy            System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels             System Fuels, Inc.

System or Entergy        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

System operating
 companies               AP&L,    GSU,   LP&L,   MP&L,   and    NOPSI,
                         collectively
                                   

                                   
                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                         REPORT OF MANAGEMENT


      The management of Mississippi Power & Light Company has prepared
and  is responsible for the financial statements and related financial
information  included herein.  The financial statements are  based  on
generally   accepted  accounting  principles.   Financial  information
included  elsewhere  in this report is consistent with  the  financial
statements.

       To   meet   its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  financial
information,  management maintains and enforces a system  of  internal
accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance,
on  a  cost-effective  basis,  as to the integrity,  objectivity,  and
reliability  of  the financial records, and as to  the  protection  of
assets.   This system includes communication through written  policies
and  procedures,  an employee Code of Conduct, and  an  organizational
structure that provides for appropriate division of responsibility and
the  training  of  personnel.   This  system  is  also  tested  by   a
comprehensive internal audit program.

       The   independent  public  accountants  provide  an   objective
assessment  of the degree to which management meets its responsibility
for  fairness  of  financial reporting.  They regularly  evaluate  the
system  of  internal accounting controls and perform  such  tests  and
other  procedures  as  they deem necessary to  reach  and  express  an
opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management  believes that these policies and procedures  provide
reasonable assurance that its operations are carried out with  a  high
standard of business conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                     /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                         GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    Senior Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer



                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                   AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                   
                                   
      The  Entergy  Corporation  Board of Directors'  Audit  Committee
functions  as  the  Audit  Committee for  Mississippi  Power  &  Light
Company.  The Audit Committee is comprised of four directors, who  are
not  officers  of  MP&L:   H. Duke Shackelford  (Chairman),  Lucie  J.
Fjeldstad, Dr. Norman C. Francis, and James R. Nichols.  The committee
held four meetings during 1994.

      The  Audit Committee oversees MP&L's financial reporting process
on  behalf of the Board of Directors and provides reasonable assurance
to  the  Board  that sufficient operating, accounting,  and  financial
controls  are in existence and are adequately reviewed by programs  of
internal and external audits.

      The  Audit Committee discussed with Entergy's internal  auditors
and  the independent public accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.) the
overall scope and specific plans for their respective audits, as  well
as  MP&L's  financial statements and the adequacy of  MP&L's  internal
controls.   The committee met, together and separately, with Entergy's
internal   auditors   and  independent  public  accountants,   without
management  present,  to discuss the results of  their  audits,  their
evaluation  of  MP&L's internal controls, and the overall  quality  of
MP&L's  financial  reporting.   The meetings  also  were  designed  to
facilitate  and  encourage  any  private  communication  between   the
committee and the internal auditors or independent public accountants.



                                /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                Chairman, Audit Committee


                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Mississippi Power & Light Company

      We  have  audited the accompanying balance sheet  of Mississippi
Power  &  Light  Company  as of December 31,  1994,  and  the  related
statements of income, retained earnings  and cash flows for  the  year
then ended.  These financial statements are the responsibility of  the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on
these  financial  statements  based  on  our  audit.    The  financial
statements  of the Company as of December 31, 1993 and for  the  years
ended  December  31,  1993 and 1992, were audited by  other  auditors,
whose  report,  dated  February  11,  1994,  included  an  explanatory
paragraph  that  described  changes  in  methods  of  accounting   for
revenues, income taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions
which  are  discussed  in  Notes 1, 3 and  9  respectively,  to  these
financial statements.

      We  conducted  our audit  in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audit  provides   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our  opinion,  the financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position  of
the Company as of December 31, 1994, and the result  of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for  the year then  ended  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995
                                   
                                   
                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
     Mississippi Power & Light Company

      We  have  audited the accompanying balance sheet of  Mississippi
Power  & Light Company (MP&L) as of December 31, 1993, and the related
statements  of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for  each  of
the  two years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements   are   the  responsibility  of  MP&L's  management.    Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial position of MP&L  at  December  31,
1993, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, MP&L changed
its  method  of accounting for revenues in 1993 and, as  discussed  in
Notes  3 and 9 to the financial statements, in 1993 MP&L changed  its
methods  of  accounting  for income taxes and postretirement  benefits
other than pensions, respectively.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994
                                   
                                                    
                                                   
                                                    
                                      
                                                                      
                                                                 
                   
                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


      Liquidity  is  important to MP&L due to  the  capital  intensive
nature of its business, which requires large investments in long-lived
assets. While large capital expenditures for the construction  of  new
generating  capacity  are  not currently planned,  MP&L  does  require
significant  capital  resources for the periodic maturity  of  certain
series   of   debt  and  preferred  stock  and  ongoing   construction
expenditures.   Net  cash flow from operations totaled  $195  million,
$149  million, and $119 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
Net  cash  flow  from operations increased in 1994  due  primarily  to
increased collections under the phase-in plan, as discussed below.  In
recent  years,  this  cash flow, supplemented  by  cash  on  hand  and
issuances  of debt and common and preferred stock, has been sufficient
to  meet  substantially  all  investing  and  financing  requirements,
including  capital  expenditures, dividends, and debt/preferred  stock
maturities.    MP&L's  ability  to  fund  these  capital  requirements
results,  in part, from its continued efforts to streamline operations
and  reduce costs, as well as collections under its Grand Gulf 1  rate
phase-in  plan, which exceed the current cash requirements  for  Grand
Gulf  1-related  costs.   (In  the  income  statement,  these  revenue
collections  are  offset  by the amortization of  previously  deferred
costs; therefore, there is no effect on net income.) MP&L's Grand Gulf
1  rate  phase-in  plan  will continue to contribute  to  MP&L's  cash
position  through  1998.   See Note 2 for  additional  information  on
MP&L's  rate phase-in plan.  See Note 8 for additional information  on
MP&L's capital and refinancing requirements in 1995 - 1997.  Also,  to
the  extent current market interest and dividend rates allow, MP&L may
continue  to  refinance high-cost debt and preferred  stock  prior  to
maturity.

     In March 1994, the MPSC issued a final order adopting a formulary
incentive  rate  plan.  The order also adopted previously  agreed-upon
stipulations  of  a  required return on  equity  of  11%  and  certain
accounting  adjustments  that  resulted  in  a  4.3%  ($28.1  million)
reduction  in MP&L's June 30, 1993, test-year base revenues  effective
March  25,  1994.  The plan allows for periodic small  adjustments  in
rates  based on an annual comparison of earned to benchmark  rates  of
return  and  upon certain other performance factors.  See Note  2  for
additional information.

       Earnings  coverage  tests,  bondable  property  additions,  and
accumulated  deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs recorded  as  assets,
limit the amount of G&R Bonds and preferred stock that MP&L can issue.
Based on the most restrictive applicable tests as of December 31, 1994
and  assuming an annual interest or dividend rate of 9.25%, MP&L could
have  issued  $246 million of additional G&R Bonds or $95  million  of
additional preferred stock.  Further, MP&L has the conditional ability
to  issue  G&R  Bonds against the retirement of bonds, in  some  cases
without satisfying an earnings coverage test.

      See Notes 5 and 6 for information on MP&L's financing activities
and  Note 4 for information on MP&L's short-term borrowings and  lines
of credit.

      MP&L's  liquidity  was adversely affected  during  1994  due  to
incurring $77 million of repairs and improvements associated  with  an
ice  storm in February.  See Note 2 for information regarding  a  rate
increase in September to recover ice storm costs.

                                                                  
                       MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                            STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                            
                                          For the Years Ended December 31,
                                           1994        1993          1992
                                                  (In Thousands)
                                                                  
Operating Revenues                       $847,888     $895,806     $817,650
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                   
                                       
Operating Expenses:                                               
  Operation and maintenance:                                      
    Fuel and fuel-related expenses        160,227      140,391      112,032

    Purchased power                       235,019      289,016      301,912
    Other operation and maintenance       156,954      156,405      146,440

  Depreciation and amortization            36,592       32,152       31,493
  Taxes other than income taxes            43,963       41,878       40,738
  Income taxes                             16,651       33,074       21,681
  Rate deferrals:                                                 
    Rate deferrals                              -            -      (22,876)
    Amortization of rate deferrals        102,725       77,570       61,456
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             752,131      770,486      692,876
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                     
                                       
Operating Income                           95,757      125,320      124,774
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      
Other Income (Deductions):                                        
  Allowance for equity funds used
   during construction                      1,660          928          668
  Miscellaneous - net                      (1,117)         948        4,562
  Income taxes - (debit)                    4,176       (3,462)      (1,467)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                               4,719       (1,586)       3,763
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                     
Interest Charges:                                                 
  Interest on long-term debt               47,835       53,558       62,394
  Other interest - net                      4,929        1,802        1,672
  Allowance for borrowed funds used                                          
   during construction                     (1,067)        (663)        (565)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                              51,697       54,697       63,501
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      

Income before Cumulative Effect of
 a Change in Accounting Principle          48,779       69,037       65,036

                                                                  
Cumulative Effect to January 1, 1993 
of Accruing Unbilled Revenues                                    
(net of income taxes of $19,456)                -       32,706            -
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Net Income                                 48,779      101,743       65,036
                                                                  
Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements
 and Other                                  7,624        9,160        9,513
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      
Earnings Applicable to Common Stock       $41,155      $92,583      $55,523
                                       ==========   ==========   ==========
                            

See Notes to Financial Statements.
                                                                  
                                                             
                                                             
                        MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                         STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                                                       
                                           For the Years Ended December 31,
                                             1994         1993       1992
                                                    (In Thousands)
                                                                            
Retained Earnings, January 1               $236,337     $230,201    $243,819
  Add:                                                                      
    Net income                               48,779      101,743      65,036
                                           --------     --------    -------- 
   
        Total                               285,116      331,944     308,855
                                           --------     --------    --------  
  Deduct:                                                                   
    Dividends declared:                                                     
      Preferred stock                         7,404        8,964       9,513
      Common stock                           45,600       85,800      68,400
    Preferred stock expenses                    101          843         741
                                           --------     --------    --------
   
        Total                                53,105       95,607      78,654
                                           --------     --------    --------
Retained Earnings, December 31 (Note 7)    $232,011     $236,337    $230,201
                                           ========     ========    ======== 
                                                                            
                                                                 
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                            


                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

      Net  income  decreased  in 1994 due primarily  to  the  one-time
recording in the first quarter of 1993 of the cumulative effect of the
change  in  accounting principle for unbilled revenues.  In  addition,
net  income was reduced by the rate reduction in connection  with  the
formula  incentive  rate plan, partially offset by a  FERC  settlement
(see   Litigation  and  Regulatory  Proceedings  below).   Net  income
increased  in  1993  due primarily to the one-time  recording  of  the
cumulative  effect of the change in accounting principle for  unbilled
revenues  and its ongoing effects, partially offset by the effects  of
implementing SFAS 109 and SFAS 106.  Effective January 1,  1993,  MP&L
began  accruing  as  revenues  the charges  for  energy  delivered  to
customers  but  not  yet  billed.  Electric revenues  were  previously
recorded  on  a  cycle-billing basis.  Excluding the  above  mentioned
items,  net income for 1993 would have been $71.9 million.  This  $6.9
million  increase  is due primarily to an increase  in  retail  energy
sales and a decrease in interest expense from the refinancing of high-
cost debt.

      Significant  factors  affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and  1992,
are  discussed  under  "Revenues and Sales," "Expenses,"  and  "Other"
below.

Revenues and Sales

      See  "Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Comparison"  following
the  notes,  for information on operating revenues by source  and  KWH
sales.

      Operating  revenues decreased in 1994 due to the impact  of  the
rate  reduction in connection with the incentive rate plan  that  went
into  effect in March 1994,  partially offset by higher energy  sales.
In  addition to the factors cited above for revenues, accrued unbilled
revenues  decreased due to a change in the cycle billing dates  offset
by  an increase in billed revenues. This decrease was partially offset
by  increased retail energy sales resulting from increased  commercial
and industrial sales.

       Operating  revenues  were  higher  in  1993  due  to  increased
residential  and  commercial energy sales resulting primarily  from  a
return  to more normal weather as compared to milder weather in  1992.
Industrial  energy  sales also increased due to higher  sales  to  the
rubber  and  plastics,  petroleum refining,  and  petroleum  pipelines
sectors.  Sales for resale to associated companies were higher due  to
changes in generation availability and requirements among AP&L,  LP&L,
MP&L  and  NOPSI.  Additionally, electric operating revenues increased
due to increased fuel adjustment revenues and increased collections of
previously  deferred  Grand Gulf 1-related  costs,  neither  of  which
affects  net  income.   These increases were  partially  offset  by  a
decrease  in other revenue related to MP&L's rate deferral  over/under
recovery which reflects adjustments for the difference between  actual
and estimated costs, and does not affect net income.

Expenses

      Operating  expenses  decreased in 1994 due  primarily  to  lower
purchased  power and income tax expense partially offset by  increased
amortization of rate deferrals. Operating expenses increased  in  1993
due  primarily  to higher fuel and maintenance expenses and  increased
amortization of rate deferrals.

      Purchased  power  expense decreased in  1994  due  primarily  to
changes  in generation availability and requirements among the  System
operating companies.  A lower per unit price for power purchased  also
contributed to the decrease in purchased power in 1994.

      Fuel for electric generation and fuel-related expenses increased
in  1993  due  primarily  to  an increase in  generation  requirements
resulting  primarily  from increased energy  sales,  as  discussed  in
"Revenues and Sales" above, and increased fuel costs.

      Other  operation and maintenance expense was higher in 1993  due
primarily  to  an  increase in scheduled maintenance at  MP&L's  power
plants.

      Income  taxes  decreased  in 1994 due primary  to  lower  pretax
income,  and  the  write-off of unamortized  deferred  investment  tax
credits  in accordance with a FERC settlement.  Income taxes increased
in  1993 due to the effect of high pretax income, an increase  in  the
federal  income  tax  rate  as a result of OBRA,  and  the  effect  of
implementing SFAS 109.

      The  amortization of rate deferrals increased in 1994  and  1993
reflecting  the  fact that MP&L, based on the Revised Plan,  collected
more  Grand  Gulf 1-related costs from its customers in 1994  than  it
recovered in 1993 and    1992.

     Interest expense decreased in 1994 and 1993  due primarily to the
refinancing of high-cost long-term debt and the maturity of  high-cost
long-term debt.


                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

       The   electric   utility  industry  is  becoming   increasingly
competitive and MP&L is seeking to become a leading competitor in  the
changing  electric  energy business.  Competition presents  MP&L  with
many  challenges.  The following have been identified by MP&L  as  its
major competitive challenges.

                   Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
       The   retail   regulatory  philosophy  is  shifting   in   some
jurisdictions from traditional cost of service regulation to incentive
rate regulation.  Incentive and performance-based rate plans encourage
efficiencies  and  productivity while permitting utilities  and  their
customers to share in the results.  MP&L implemented an incentive rate
plan  in 1994.  Recognizing that many industrial customers have energy
alternatives, MP&L continues to work with these customers  to  address
their  needs.   In  certain cases, competitive prices are  negotiated,
using variable rate designs.

      MP&L's  formulary incentive rate plan allows for periodic  small
adjustments  in  rates based on a comparison of  earned  to  benchmark
returns  and  upon certain performance factors.  In addition,  certain
previously agreed-upon stipulations of a required return on equity  of
11%  and  certain  accounting adjustments resulted in  a  4.3%  ($28.1
million)  reduction in MP&L's revenues effective March 25, 1994.   For
further information see Note 2.

      In connection with the Merger, MP&L agreed with their respective
retail  regulators  not to request any general retail  rate  increases
that would take effect before November 1998, with certain exceptions.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
service  territory,  is  evolving.  Over  a  dozen  states  have  been
studying the concept of retail competition.  In April 1994, the  state
of  Michigan  agreed  to a five-year experiment  that  allows  limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  decision  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      On October 11, 1994, twelve Mississippi cities filed a complaint
in  state  court  against MP&L and eight electric  power  associations
seeking  a judgment from the court declaring unconstitutional  certain
Mississippi  statutes  that  establish  the  procedure  that  must  be
followed  before  a  municipality  can  acquire  the  facilities   and
certificate   rights  of  a  utility  serving  in  the   municipality.
Specifically,    the   suit   requests   that   the   court    declare
unconstitutional  certain 1987 amendments to  the  Mississippi  Public
Utilities   Act  that  require  that  the  MPSC  cancel  a   utility's
certificate  to  serve in the municipality before a  municipality  may
acquire a utility's facilities located in the municipality.  The  suit
also requests that the court find that Mississippi municipalities  can
serve  any  consumer in the boundaries of the municipality and  within
one  mile  thereof.  Such a finding would be contrary  to  Mississippi
Supreme  Court  decisions that have held that  a  municipality  cannot
serve  in  another  utility's service area even  where  the  municipal
boundaries  extend into such service area.  On January 6,  1995,  MP&L
and  the  other  defendants filed motions to dismiss.  The  matter  is
pending and will be vigorously contested by MP&L.

      In  mid-1994,  the  FERC issued a notice of proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning  stranded cost recovery and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

      In  the wholesale rate area, FERC approved in 1992, with certain
modifications,  the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  Entergy
Power,  Inc.  to  sell wholesale power at market-based  rates  and  to
provide   to   electric  utilities  "open  access"  to  the   System's
transmission system (subject to certain requirements).  GSU was  later
added  to  this  filing.  On January 25, 1995, Entergy Services  filed
with  FERC revised transmission tariffs intended to provide access  to
transmission  service  on  the same or comparable  basis,  terms,  and
conditions  as the System operating companies. Open access and  market
pricing,  once  in  effect, will increase marketing opportunities  for
MP&L, but will also expose MP&L to the risk of loss of load or reduced
revenues due to competition with alternative suppliers.

     In light of the rate issues discussed above, MP&L is aggressively
reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions that might  result
as  well  as  to become more competitive.  In 1994, MP&L  announced  a
restructuring program related to certain of its operating units.  This
program   is   designed  to  reduce  costs  and    improve   operating
efficiencies.  See Note 12 for further information.  Also, in response
to  an increasingly competitive environment, MP&L announced intentions
to revise its initial least cost planning activities.

                     The Energy Policy Act of 1992
                                   
     The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering
the  way  Entergy  and  the  rest  of the  electric  utility  industry
operate.  The EPAct  encourages competition and affords utilities  the
opportunities,  and  the  risks, associated  with  an  open  and  more
competitive  market  environment.  The EPAct creates  exemptions  from
regulation under the Holding Company Act and creates a class of exempt
wholesale generators consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities
that  are  owners and operators of facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC  the authority to order investor-owned utilities, including MP&L,
to  transmit  power  and  energy to or for  wholesale  purchasers  and
sellers.   The  law creates the potential for electric  utilities  and
other  power  producers to gain increased access to  the  transmission
systems  of other entities to facilitate wholesale sales.   Both  MP&L
and  Entergy Power expect to compete in this market.  In addition, the
EPAct   allows  utilities  to  own  and  operate  foreign  generation,
transmission, and distribution facilities.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.   In  accordance  with the agreement, System  Energy  refunded
approximately $20.4 million to MP&L, which will in turn  make  refunds
or  credits to its customers.  Additionally, System Energy will refund
a  total  of approximately $20.5 million, plus interest, to MP&L  over
the period through June 2004.  The settlement also required the write-
off  of  approximately  $6  million of  certain  unamortized  deferred
investment tax credits by MP&L.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition and measurement of asset impairment. Certain operations of
MP&L  are  potentially affected by this standard,  and  any  resulting
write-offs  will  depend on future operating costs, generating  units'
efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy over the
remaining  life  of  the  units.  Based  on  current  estimates,  MP&L
anticipates that future revenues will fully recover the costs of  such
operations.

      Continued  Application of SFAS 71 - MP&L's financial  statements
currently  reflect  assets  and  costs  based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking  regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting  for
the  Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  As discussed above, the
electric utility industry is changing and these changes could possibly
result  in  the  discontinuance of the application of SFAS  71,  which
would  result in the elimination of regulatory assets and liabilities.
See Note 1 for further information.


                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      MP&L  maintains  accounts  in accordance  with  FERC  and  other
regulatory guidelines. Certain previously reported amounts  have  been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      Prior to January 1, 1993, MP&L recorded revenues when billed  to
its customers with no accrual for energy delivered but not yet billed.
To  provide  a  better  matching of revenues and  expenses,  effective
January  1,  1993,  MP&L adopted a change in accounting  principle  to
provide  for  accrual of estimated unbilled revenues.  The  cumulative
effect  of this accounting change as of January 1, 1993 increased  net
income  by  $32.7  million.  Had this new accounting  method  been  in
effect  during  prior years, net income before the  cumulative  effect
would  not  have  been materially different from  that  shown  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

      MP&L's rate schedules include fuel adjustment clauses that allow
current  recovery of estimated fuel costs, with subsequent adjustments
of estimates to actual.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of
utility  plant retired or removed, plus the applicable removal  costs,
less  salvage,  is charged to accumulated depreciation.   Maintenance,
repairs,   and  minor  replacement  costs  are  charged  to  operating
expenses.  Substantially all of MP&L's utility plant is subject to the
lien  of its first mortgage bond indenture and the second lien of  its
G&R mortgage bond indenture.

      Total  MP&L net utility plant in service of $893 million  as  of
December  31,  1994  includes $220 million of production  plant,  $249
million of transmission plant, $358 million of distribution plant, and
$66 million of other plant.

      Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  basis  at  rates
based  on  the  estimated service lives and costs of  removal  of  the
various  classes  of  property.  Depreciation  provisions  on  average
depreciable property approximated 2.4% in 1994 and 1993, and  2.5%  in
1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included  in rates.  MP&L's effective composite rates for  AFUDC  were
8.0%, 11.8%, and 12.0%, for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Jointly-Owned Generating Station

     MP&L owns 25% of the Independence Station, a two-unit, coal-fired
generating   station  located  near  Newark,  Arkansas.    The   total
capability  of Independence Station is 1,678 megawatts.  MP&L  records
its  investment  in and expenses associated with this station  to  the
extent  of  its  ownership  and interest.  MP&L's  investment  in  the
Independence  Station was approximately $222 million less  accumulated
depreciation of approximately $73.6 million as of December 31, 1994.

Notes Receivable

      MP&L currently has a program, wherein it finances heat pumps for
its  customers through notes receivable.  Such notes are repayable  in
equal  monthly installments of principal and interest over a five-year
period  and bear interest at a market-based rate at the time of  sale.
The  amounts financed are classified on its balance sheet  as  current
and noncurrent notes receivable.

Income Taxes

      MP&L,  its  parent,  and affiliates file a consolidated  federal
income  tax  return.  Income taxes are allocated to MP&L in proportion
to  its  contribution to consolidated taxable income. SEC  regulations
require that no Entergy Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it
would  have  had  a separate income tax return been  filed.   Deferred
taxes  are  recorded for all temporary differences  between  book  and
taxable  income.   Investment tax credits are deferred  and  amortized
based  upon  the  average  useful life of  the  related  property,  in
accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note 3, in 1993  MP&L
changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

      In  addition, MP&L files a consolidated Mississippi state income
tax return with certain other System companies.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      MP&L  considers all unrestricted highly liquid debt  instruments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and  a modified regulatory environment. MP&L's  financial
statements  currently reflect assets and costs based on current  cost-
based  ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71, "Accounting
for   the   Effects  of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation."    Continued
applicability of SFAS 71 to MP&L's financial statements requires  that
rates  set  by  an  independent regulator on a cost of  service  basis
(including  a  reasonable  rate of return  on  invested  capital)  can
actually be charged to and collected from customers.

      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation, or a change in the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As  of December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future, MP&L's
financial statements continue to follow SFAS 71.
                                   
Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined by MP&L, using available market information and appropriate
valuation  methodologies.  However, considerable judgment is  required
in  developing the estimates of fair value.  Therefore, estimates  are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that MP&L could realize in a
current  market  exchange.  In addition, gains or losses  realized  on
financial instruments may be reflected in future rates and not  accrue
to the benefit of stockholders.

      MP&L  considers  the  carrying amounts of financial  instruments
classified  as  current  assets and liabilities  to  be  a  reasonable
estimate  of their fair value because of the short maturity  of  these
instruments.   In  addition,  MP&L  does  not  presently  expect  that
performance  of  its obligations will be required in  connection  with
certain   off-balance  sheet  commitments  and  guarantees  considered
financial instruments. Due to this factor, and because of the  related
party  nature  of  these commitments and guarantees, determination  of
fair  value  is not considered practicable.  See Notes  5  and  6  for
additional fair value disclosure.


NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Formula Rate Plan

      Under  a  formulary  incentive rate  plan  (Formula  Rate  Plan)
effective  March 25, 1994, MP&L's earned rate of return is  calculated
automatically every 12 months and compared to and adjusted  against  a
benchmark  rate of return (calculated under a separate formula  within
the  Formula  Rate Plan).  The Formula Rate Plan allows  for  periodic
small  adjustments  in  rates  based on  a  comparison  of  earned  to
benchmark returns and upon certain performance factors.  In  the  same
proceeding,  the  MPSC conducted a general review  of  MP&L's  current
rates  and on March 1, 1994, issued a final order adopting the Formula
Rate  Plan  and previously agreed-upon stipulations of (1) a  required
return  on  equity of 11% and (2) certain accounting adjustments  that
resulted in a 4.3% ($28.1 million) reduction in MP&L's June 30,  1993,
test-year base revenues.  The MPSC's order required MP&L to file rates
designed to provide for this reduction in operating revenues  for  the
test  year  on or before March 18, 1994, which became effective  March
25,  1994.   The  final order was appealed to the Mississippi  Supreme
Court on May 17, 1994, by Mississippi Valley Gas Company (MVG) on  the
grounds  that the MPSC issued the final order without having  reviewed
the cost of MP&L's promotional practices, some of which MVG alleged to
be  improper.   On  October  28, 1994, the Mississippi  Supreme  Court
granted MVG's motion to dismiss the appeal.

Merger - Related Rate Agreement

      In  November  1993, MP&L and the MPSC entered into a  settlement
agreement whereby the MPSC agreed to withdraw its request for hearings
and  its objections in the SEC proceeding related to the Merger.  MP&L
agreed  that  MP&L's  retail ratepayers would be  protected  from  (1)
increases  in  MP&L's cost of capital resulting from risks  associated
with  the  Merger;  (2)  recovery of any portion  of  the  acquisition
premium or transactional costs associated with the Merger; (3) certain
direct  allocations of costs associated with GSU's River Bend  nuclear
unit;  and  (4)  any  losses  of  GSU  resulting  from  resolution  of
litigation  in  connection with its ownership of  River  Bend.   In  a
related stipulation, MP&L also agreed (a) that retail base rates under
its  formula rate plan would not be increased above November  1,  1993
levels,  and  (b) that MP&L would not request any general retail  rate
increase  that would increase retail rates above the level  of  MP&L's
rates  in  effect  as  of November 1, 1993, except  for,  among  other
things, increases associated with the recovery of deferred Grand  Gulf
1-related   costs,   recovery  under  the  fuel   adjustment   clause,
adjustments for certain taxes, and force majeure (defined to  include,
among other things, war, natural catastrophes, and high inflation), in
each case for a period of five years beginning November 9, 1993.

Grand Gulf 1

      MP&L's  Revised  Plan  provides, among  other  things,  for  the
recovery  by  MP&L,  in  equal  annual  installments  over  ten  years
beginning October 1, 1988, of all Grand Gulf 1-related costs  deferred
through  September 30, 1988 pursuant to the Final Order on  Rehearing.
Additionally, the Revised Plan provided that MP&L defer, in decreasing
amounts,  a portion of its Grand Gulf 1-related costs over four  years
beginning  October  1, 1988.  These deferrals are being  recovered  by
MP&L  over  a six-year period beginning in October 1992 and ending  in
September 1998.  The Revised Plan also allows for the current recovery
of carrying charges on all deferred amounts.

February 1994 Ice Storm/Rate Rider

      In  early February 1994, an ice storm left more than 80,000 MP&L
customers  without electric power across the service area.  The  storm
was  the  most  severe  natural disaster ever to  affect  the  System,
causing  damage  to  transmission and distribution  lines,  equipment,
poles,  and  facilities  in certain areas, primarily  in  Mississippi.
Repair  costs totaled approximately $77.2 million, with $64.6  million
of  these  amounts capitalized as plant-related costs.  The  remaining
balances  have been recorded as a deferred debit.  On April 15,  1994,
MP&L  filed  for  rate recovery of costs related  to  the  ice  storm.
MP&L's  filing,  as subsequently amended, requested  recovery  of  the
revenue  requirement associated with MP&L's ice storm  costs  recorded
through  April 30, 1994, representing approximately 86% of  the  total
estimated  ice  storm  costs.  MP&L may make another  ice  storm  rate
filing  with the MPSC during 1995 to recover ice storm costs  recorded
by  MP&L  after April 30, 1994.  In August 1994, MP&L and  the  MPSC's
Public Utilities Staff entered into a stipulation  with respect to the
recovery  of ice storm costs recorded through April 30, 1994,  and  in
September  1994,  the  MPSC  approved  the  stipulation.   Under   the
stipulation, MP&L implemented an ice storm rider schedule, which  went
into   effect  on  September  29,  1994,  that  will  increase   rates
approximately $8 million annually for five years.  At the end  of  the
five-year  period,  the  revenue  requirement  associated   with   the
undepreciated ice storm capitalized costs will be included  in  MP&L's
base rates to the extent that this revenue requirement does not result
in  MP&L's rate of return on rate base being above the benchmark  rate
of return under MP&L's formula rate plan.


NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES


      Total  income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying
the  statutory  federal income tax rate to income before  taxes.   The
reasons for the differences were:



      Significant components of MP&L's net deferred tax liabilities as
of December 31, 1994 and 1993, were (in thousands):

                                                         1994         1993
     Deferred tax liabilities:                                      
      Plant related basis differences                 $(173,965)   $(166,650)
      Rate deferrals                                   (201,037)    (246,604)
      Other                                             (13,318)      (6,406)
                                                      ---------    ---------
       Total                                          $(388,320)   $(419,660)
                                                      =========    =========
           
                                                      
     Deferred tax assets:                                             
      Net regulatory liabilities                       $  1,804     $  9,411
      Accumulated deferred investment tax credits        11,295       13,420
      Recoverable income tax                                  -       13,854
      Alternative minimum tax credit                          -        1,192
      Removal cost                                        2,824       10,725
      Standard coal plant                                 4,717        4,854
      Pension related items                               3,182        2,488
      Other                                              15,695       10,342
                                                       --------     --------
       Total                                           $ 39,517     $ 66,286
                                                       ========     ========
          
                                                                      
       Net deferred tax liabilities                   $(348,803)   $(353,374)
                                                      =========    =========
      
      In  accordance with a System Energy FERC settlement, MP&L  wrote
off $6.0 million of unamortized deferred investment tax credits in 1994.

      In 1993, MP&L adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that deferred
income   taxes   be   recorded  for  all  temporary  differences   and
carryforwards, and that deferred tax balances be based on enacted  tax
laws at tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences  reverse.   SFAS 109 required that  regulated  enterprises
recognize  adjustments  resulting from  implementation  as  regulatory
assets  or  liabilities if it is probable that such  amounts  will  be
recovered  from  or  returned  to  customers  in  future   rates.    A
substantial  majority  of the adjustments required  by  SFAS  109  was
recorded  to  deferred  tax  balance sheet  accounts  with  offsetting
adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities.  As a result of  the
adoption  of  SFAS 109, 1993 net income was reduced by  $1.7  million,
assets  were  increased  by  $50.2  million,  and   liabilities   were
increased by $51.9 million.  The cumulative effect of the adoption  of
SFAS 109 is included in income tax expense charged to operations


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

     The SEC has authorized MP&L to effect short-term borrowings up to
$100  million, which may be increased to as much as $108 million after
further   SEC  approval.   This  authorization  is  effective  through
November  30,  1996.   As of December 31, 1994, MP&L  had  outstanding
short-term  lines  of  credit of  $30 million from  banks  within  its
service  territory.   Interest rates associated with  these  lines  of
credit  generally  are based on the prime rate, the  London  interbank
offered rate, or a bid rate.  Commitment fees on these lines of credit
are  .125% of the amount of available credit.  In addition,  MP&L  can
borrow from the Money Pool, subject to its maximum authorized level of
short-term   borrowings  and  the  availability  of   funds.    MP&L's
short-term borrowings are limited by the terms of its G&R Mortgage  to
amounts not exceeding the greater of 10% of capitalization or  50%  of
Grand  Gulf 1 rate deferrals available to support the issuance of  G&R
Bonds.   MP&L  had  no  outstanding borrowings under  the  Money  Pool
arrangement as of December 31, 1994.


NOTE 5.   PREFERRED AND COMMON STOCK

      The number of shares and dollar value of MP&L's cumulative, $100
par value preferred stock were:

(1) This series is not redeemable as of December 31, 1994.

      The  fair value of MP&L's preferred stock with sinking fund  was
estimated  to be approximately $32.5 million and $49.3 million  as  of
December  31,  1994  and 1993, respectively.   The  fair  values  were
determined  using  quoted market prices or estimates  from  nationally
recognized  investment  banking  firms.  See  Note  1  for  additional
information on disclosure of fair value of financial instruments.

     Changes in the common stock and preferred stock, with and without 
sinking fund, during the last three years were:


      Cash  sinking  fund  requirements for the next  five  years  for
preferred  stock  outstanding  as  of  December  31,  1994,  are   (in
millions):  1995  - $15, 1996 - $7.5, 1997 - $7.5, 1998  -  $0.5;  and
1999  - $0.5.  MP&L has the annual non-cumulative option to redeem  at
par,   additional  amounts  of  its  12.00%  Series  preferred   stock
outstanding.


NOTE 6.   LONG-TERM DEBT

     The long-term debt of MP&L as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, was:

         Maturities      Interest Rates                     
       From    To       From    To                 1994      1993
                                                  (In Thousands)
     First Mortgage Bonds
       1995  1996       4-5/8%  6-3/8%            $55,000   $55,000
    
     G&R Bonds
       1995 1997        5.95%   14.95%*           167,000   215,000
       2003 2023        6-5/8%  8.65%             275,000   250,000
     Governmental Obligations**
      1995  2004        7-1/2%  8-1/2%              1,880    17,925
      2012  2022        7%      11-1/2%            46,030    30,000
     Unamortized Premium and Discount-Net          (3,712)   (3,519)
                                                 --------  --------
      Total Long-Term Debt                        541,198   564,406
    Less Amount Due Within One Year                65,965    48,250
                                                 --------  --------
      Long-Term Debt Excluding Amount Due        $475,233  $516,156
        Within One Year                          ========  ========

 *   The 14.95%  series of $20 million was due February 1, 1995.   All
     other  series are at interest rates within the range of  5.95%  -
     11.2%.
 **  Consists  of  pollution control revenue bonds, certain  series  of
     which are secured by non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds.

      The  fair value of MP&L's long-term debt as of December 31, 1994
and  1993,  was  estimated to be $523.1 million  and  $594.0  million,
respectively.   The  fair values were determined using  quoted  market
prices  or  estimates  from nationally recognized  investment  banking
firms.   See Note 1 for additional information on disclosure  of  fair
value of financial instruments.

     For the years 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, MP&L has long-term
debt  maturities and cash sinking fund requirements of  (in  millions)
$66,  $61, $96, $0, and $0, respectively.  In addition, other  sinking
fund  requirements  of  approximately $0.4 million  for  1995  may  be
satisfied  by  cash or by certification of property additions  at  the
rate of 167% of such requirements.

      The  G&R  Mortgage  prohibits the issuance of  additional  first
mortgage  bonds (including for refunding purposes) under MP&L's  first
mortgage  indenture, except such first mortgage bonds as may hereafter
be  issued from time to time at MP&L's option to the corporate trustee
under  the G&R Mortgage to provide additional security for MP&L's  G&R
Bonds.

      Under  MP&L's G&R Mortgage Indenture and subject to the earnings
coverage  test discussed below, G&R Bonds are issuable based upon  70%
of  property  additions since December 31, 1987, plus  up  to  50%  of
cumulative deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs recorded as an asset on
the  books  of  MP&L, provided that the maximum amount  of  G&R  Bonds
issuable  against cumulative deferred Grand Gulf 1-related  costs  may
not  exceed  $400  million.   The G&R Mortgage  contains  an  earnings
coverage  test  requiring  a  minimum earnings  coverage  (except  for
certain  refunding  issues)  of twice the  pro-forma  annual  mortgage
interest requirements for the issuance of additional G&R Bonds.  As of
December   31,  1994,  the  total  amount  of  G&R  Bonds  outstanding
aggregated $442 million.


NOTE 7.   DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

      MP&L's  bond  indentures  relating  to  long-term  debt  contain
provisions  restricting  the  payment  of  cash  dividends  or   other
distributions on common stock. As of December 31, 1994, $139.3 million
of  MP&L's  retained earnings were restricted against the  payment  of
cash dividends or other distributions on common stock.  On February 1,
1995,  MP&L  paid Entergy Corporation a $8.3 million cash dividend  on
common stock.


NOTE 8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Capital Requirements and Financing

      Construction expenditures for the years 1995, 1996, and 1997 are
estimated   to  total  $67.9  each  year.   MP&L  will  also   require
$253  million during the period 1995-1997 to meet long-term  debt  and
preferred  stock maturities and cash sinking fund requirements.   MP&L
plans  to meet the above requirements with internally generated  funds
and cash on hand, supplemented by the issuance of long-term debt.  See
Notes  5 and 6 regarding the possible issuance, refunding, redemption,
purchase  or  other  acquisition  of  certain  outstanding  series  of
preferred stock and long-term debt.

Unit Power Sales Agreement

      System Energy has agreed to sell all of its 90% owned and leased
share  of  capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and   NOPSI  in  accordance  with  specified  percentages  (AP&L  36%,
LP&L  14%, MP&L 33%, and NOPSI 17%) as ordered by FERC.  Charges under
this  agreement  are  paid  in  consideration  for  MP&L's  respective
entitlement   to  receive  capacity  and  energy,  and   are   payable
irrespective of the quantity of energy delivered so long as  the  unit
remains in commercial operation.  The agreement will remain in  effect
until terminated by the parties and approved by FERC, most likely upon
Grand Gulf 1's retirement from service. MP&L's monthly obligation  for
payments under the agreement is approximately $16 million.

Availability Agreement

      AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are individually obligated to  make
payments or subordinated advances to System Energy in accordance  with
stated  percentages  (AP&L 17.1%, LP&L 26.9%, MP&L  31.3%,  and  NOPSI
24.7%)  in amounts that when added to amounts received under the  Unit
Power  Sales  Agreement or otherwise, are adequate  to  cover  all  of
System  Energy's operating expenses.  System Energy has  assigned  its
rights  to payments and advances to certain creditors as security  for
certain  obligations.  Since commercial operation  of  Grand  Gulf  1,
payments  under  the  Unit  Power Sales Agreement  have  exceeded  the
amounts  payable  under the Availability Agreement.   Accordingly,  no
payments have ever been required.

Reallocation Agreement

      System  Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI entered into  the
Reallocation  Agreement relating to the sale of  capacity  and  energy
from  the  Grand  Gulf Station and the related costs, in  which  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI agreed to assume all of AP&L's responsibilities  and
obligations  with  respect  to  the  Grand  Gulf  Station  under   the
Availability Agreement. FERC's decision allocating a portion of  Grand
Gulf  1  capacity  and  energy  to AP&L  supersedes  the  Reallocation
Agreement as it relates to Grand Gulf 1.  Responsibility for any Grand
Gulf   2   amortization   amounts  has  been  individually   allocated
(LP&L  26.23%, MP&L 43.97%, and NOPSI 29.80%) under the terms  of  the
Reallocation Agreement.  However, the Reallocation Agreement does  not
affect  AP&L's  obligation  to  System  Energy's  lenders  under   the
assignments  referred to in the preceding paragraph.   AP&L  would  be
liable  for  its share of such amounts if LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI  were
unable  to  meet  their contractual obligations. No  payments  of  any
amortization  amounts  will be required as long  as  amounts  paid  to
System  Energy  under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, including  other
funds  available to System Energy, exceed amounts required  under  the
Availability  Agreement, which is expected to  be  the  case  for  the
foreseeable future.

System Fuels

      MP&L  has  a  19%  interest  in System  Fuels,  a  jointly-owned
subsidiary  of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  The parent  companies  of
System Fuels, including MP&L, agreed to make loans to System Fuels  to
finance its fuel procurement, delivery, and storage activities.  As of
December  31,  1994,  MP&L had approximately  $5.5  million  of  loans
outstanding to System Fuels which mature in 2008.

      On  April  30,  1993,  AP&L  assumed System  Fuels'  rights  and
obligations  in  connection with System Fuels' coal  car  leases.  The
other  parent companies of System Fuels have been released from  their
obligations with respect to the coal car leases.  However, MP&L, as  a
co-owner  of the Independence Station, which uses the coal transported
by  the  leased coal cars, will continue to reimburse AP&L for  MP&L's
share of the costs associated with the leases.

Fuel Purchase Commitments

      MP&L owns certain coal mining equipment and facilities at a mine
in  Wyoming.  The mine's estimated reserves are presently expected  to
provide the projected requirements of the Independence Station through
at least 2011.


NOTE 9.   POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

      MP&L  has  a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially
all of its employees. The pension plan is noncontributory and provides
pension  benefits  based on employees' credited  service  and  average
compensation, generally during the last five years before  retirement.
MP&L  funds  pension costs in accordance with contribution  guidelines
established by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended,  and  the  Internal Revenue Code of 1986,  as  amended.   The
assets  of the plan consist primarily of common and preferred  stocks,
fixed  income  securities,  interest  in  a  money  market  fund,  and
insurance contracts.

      MP&L's  1994,  1993,  and 1992 pension cost,  including  amounts
capitalized, included the following components:


      The funded status of MP&L's pension plan as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, was:
      
      The  significant  actuarial assumptions used  in  computing  the
information above for 1994, 1993, and 1992  were as follows:  weighted
average  discount  rate, 8.5% for 1994, 7.5% for 1993  and  8.25%  for
1992; weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels,
5.1%  for 1994 and 5.6% for 1993 and 1992; and expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets, 8.5%.  Transition assets are being amortized
over 15 years.

Other Postretirement Benefits

      MP&L  also  provides  certain health  care  and  life  insurance
benefits  for  retired  employees.  Substantially  all  employees  may
become eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age  while
still  working  for  MP&L.   The  cost of  providing  these  benefits,
recorded  on  a  cash  basis, to retirees in  1992  was  approximately
$1.6 million.

      Effective January 1, 1993, MP&L adopted SFAS 106.  This standard
required  a  change  from  a  cash method  to  an  accrual  method  of
accounting  for  postretirement  benefits  other  than  pensions.   At
January 1, 1993, the actuarially determined accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO) earned by retirees and active employees  was
estimated to be approximately $30 million.  This obligation  is  being
amortized  over a 20-year period beginning in 1993.  MP&L is expensing
its  SFAS 106 costs, which is reflected in rates pursuant to an  order
from  the MPSC in connection with MP&L's formulary incentive rate plan
(see Note 2).  In conjunction with such rate incentive plan, MP&L  has
established and commenced funding two Voluntary Employee's Beneficiary
Association  (VEBA)  trusts (for bargaining  and  non-bargaining  unit
employees).  During  1994,  MP&L funded $2.9  million  to  these  VEBA
trusts.  The trust's assets are invested in a money market fund.

      MP&L's  1994  and  1993 postretirement benefit  cost,  including
amounts capitalized and deferred, included the following components:

                                                             1994       1993
                                                              (In Thousands)
                                                                         
     Service cost - benefits earned during the period       $  876     $  812
     Interest cost on APBO                                   1,833      2,400
     Net amortization and deferral                           1,122      1,502
                                                            ------     ------
     Net periodic postretirement benefit cost               $3,831     $4,714
                                                            ======     ======
      
      The  funded status of MP&L's postretirement plan as of December
31, 1994 and 1993, was

                                                         1994       1993
     Accumulated postretirement benefit obligations:      (In Thousands)
      Retirees                                          $15,531     $21,435
      Other fully eligible participants                   4,293       5,816
      Other active participants                           3,561       7,794
                                                        -------     -------     
                                                         23,385      35,045
     Plan assets at fair value                            2,949           -
                                                        -------     -------
     Plan assets less than APBO                         (20,436)    (35,045)
     Unrecognized transition obligation                  27,035      28,537
     Unrecognized net loss (gain)                        (8,636)      3,745
                                                        -------     -------
     Accrued post retirement benefit liability          $(2,037)    $(2,763)
                                                        =======     =======
      
      
      The  assumed  health care cost trend rate used in measuring  the
APBO  was  9.4%  for 1995, gradually decreasing each  successive  year
until it reaches 5.0% in 2011.  A one percentage-point increase in the
assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would have increased
the  APBO as of December 31, 1994, by 7.4% and the sum of the  service
cost  and  interest cost by approximately 9.5%.  The assumed  discount
rate  and  rate of increase in future compensation used in determining
the  APBO  were 8.5% for 1994 and 7.5% for 1993 and 5.1% for 1994  and
5.5% for 1993, respectively.


NOTE 10.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

      MP&L buys electricity from and/or sells electricity to the other
System  operating  companies and System Energy  under  rate  schedules
filed  with FERC.  In addition, MP&L purchases fuel from System  Fuels
and receives technical and advisory services from Entergy Services.

      Operating  revenues  include revenues from sales  to  affiliates
amounting  to  $45.8 million in 1994, $40.6 million in 1993,  and  $18
million  in  1992.  Operating expenses include charges from affiliates
for fuel costs, purchased power and related charges, and technical and
advisory  services totaling $280.2 million in 1994, $360.5 million  in
1993, and $364 million in 1992.

      See  Note  1 for information on MP&L's jointly-owned  generating
station.


NOTE 11.  RESTRUCTURING COSTS

      During the third quarter of 1994, MP&L announced a restructuring
program  related to certain of its operating units.   The  program  is
designed to reduce costs, improve operating efficiencies, and increase
shareholder  value  in  order to enable  MP&L  to  become  a  low-cost
producer.   The program includes reductions in the number of employees
and  the  consolidation  of  offices and facilities.   In  1994,  MP&L
recorded   restructuring  charges  of  $6.2  million.  These   charges
primarily  include employee severance costs related  to  the  expected
termination of approximately 262 employees.  As of December 31,  1994,
no  employees  have been terminated and no termination  benefits  have
been paid under this restructuring program.


NOTE 12.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     MP&L's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations with the peak
period occurring during the third quarter.  Operating results for  the
four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                              Operating    Operating       Net    
                               Revenues      Income      Income
                                         (In Thousands)              
       1994:                                                 
        First Quarter           $187,417    $18,715     $ 6,249  
        Second Quarter          $229,790    $33,828     $21,653  
        Third Quarter           $234,274    $23,675     $10,856  
        Fourth Quarter          $196,407    $19,539     $10,021  
       1993:                                                     
        First Quarter           $179,467    $24,134     $42,782  
        Second Quarter          $229,506    $38,471     $25,339  
        Third Quarter           $264,419    $39,896     $26,921  
        Fourth Quarter          $222,414    $22,819     $ 6,701   
                                                                 

     See  Note  1  for  information regarding  the  recording  of  the
     cumulative  effect  of  the  change in accounting  principle  for
     unbilled revenues in January 1993.

                                   

(1)  Includes  long-term  debt  (excluding currently  maturing  debt),
     preferred  stock with sinking fund, and noncurrent capital  lease
     obligations.

     See  Notes  1, 3, and 9 for the effect of accounting  changes  in
     1993.

                       1994         1993         1992         1991      1990
                                          (Dollars in Thousands)
Operating Revenues:                                         
 Residential         $331,007      $343,585    $308,346     $307,283  $302,622
 Commercial           255,898       252,798     235,137      229,597   227,140
 Industrial           183,398       183,537     168,853      162,072   160,007
 Governmental          27,349        28,708      26,250       25,630    25,117
                     --------      --------    --------     --------  --------
   Total retail       797,652       808,628     738,586      724,582   714,886
 Sales for resale      54,475        55,740      37,983       25,487    35,678
 Other                 (4,239)       31,438      41,081        4,563    10,624
                     --------      --------    --------     --------  --------
   Total             $847,888      $895,806    $817,650     $754,632  $761,188
                     ========      ========    ========     ========  ======== 
                                    
Billed  Electric Energy
 Sales (Millions of KWH):
 Residential            4,014         3,983       3,644        3,739     3,701
 Commercial             3,151         2,928       2,804        2,807     2,802
 Industrial             2,985         2,787       2,631        2,582     2,564
 Governmental             330           336         318          321       318
                       ------        ------      ------       ------    ------
   Total retail        10,480        10,034       9,397        9,449     9,385
 Sales for resale       1,591         1,428       1,190        1,032       902
                       ------        ------      ------       ------    ------
   Total               12,071        11,462      10,587       10,481    10,287
                       ======        ======      ======       ======    ======

















                    New Orleans Public Service Inc.
                                   
                                   
                                   
                       1994 Financial Statements
                                   

                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
                              DEFINITIONS
                                   
                                   
      Certain  abbreviations  or acronyms used  in  NOPSI's  Financial
Statements, Notes to Financial Statements, and Management's  Financial
Discussion and Analysis are defined below:

Abbreviation or Acronym            Term

AFUDC                    Allowance for Funds Used During Construction

Alliance                 Alliance for Affordable Energy, and others

AP&L                     Arkansas Power & Light Company

City of New Orleans
or City                  New Orleans, Louisiana

Council                  Council of the City of New Orleans, Louisiana

Entergy or System        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries

Entergy Services         Entergy Services, Inc.

EPAct                    The Energy Policy Act of 1992

FASB                     Financial Accounting Standards Board

February 4 Resolution    The Resolution (including the Determinations
                         and Order referred to therein) adopted by the
                         Council on February 4, 1988, disallowing  the
                         recovery by NOPSI of $135 million of previously 
                         deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs

FERC                     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

G&R Bonds                General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued and 
                         issuable by NOPSI

Grand Gulf 1             Unit No. 1 of the Grand Gulf Station (nuclear)

Grand Gulf 2             Unit No. 2 of the Grand Gulf Station (nuclear)

Grand Gulf Station       Grand Gulf Steam Electric Generating Station (nuclear)

GSU                      Gulf States Utilities Company (including wholly    
                         owned subsidiaries - Varibus Corporation, GSG&T, Inc., 
                         Prudential Oil and Gas, Inc., and Southern Gulf 
                         Railway Company)

KWH                      Kilowatt-Hour(s)

LP&L                     Louisiana Power & Light Company

Merger                   The combination transaction, consummated on 
                         December 31, 1993, by which GSU became a subsidiary 
                         of Entergy Corporation and Entergy Corporation became 
                         a Delaware Corporation

Money Pool               Entergy  Money  Pool,  which  allows  certain
                         System companies to borrow from, or lend  to,
                         certain other System companies

MP&L                     Mississippi Power & Light Company

1986 Rate Settlement     Agreement, effective March 25, 1986,  between
                         NOPSI and the Council regarding NOPSI's Grand
                         Gulf 1-related rate issues

1989 Settlement
Agreement                An  agreement between the Council and  NOPSI,
                         effective July 21, 1989, that settled certain
                         local retail rate issues regarding Grand Gulf 1

1991 NOPSI Settlement    Settlement, retroactive to October  4,  1991,
                         among  NOPSI,  the Council and  the  Alliance
                         that  settled certain Grand Gulf  1  prudence
                         issues   and   litigation  related   to   the
                         February 4 Resolution

NOPSI                    New Orleans Public Service Inc.

OBRA                     Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993

SEC                      Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS                     Statement  of Financial Accounting  Standards
                         promulgated by the FASB

SFAS 106                 SFAS   106,   "Employers'   Accounting    for
                         Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions"

SFAS 109                 SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"

System Energy            System Energy Resources, Inc.

System Fuels             System Fuels, Inc.

System operating
companies                AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, collectively

System or Entergy        Entergy  Corporation and its  various  direct
                         and indirect subsidiaries



                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
                         REPORT OF MANAGEMENT
                                   
                                   
      The  management of New Orleans Public Service Inc. has  prepared
and  is responsible for the financial statements and related financial
information  included herein.  The financial statements are  based  on
generally   accepted  accounting  principles.   Financial  information
included  elsewhere  in this report is consistent with  the  financial
statements.

       To   meet   its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  financial
information,  management maintains and enforces a system  of  internal
accounting  controls that is designed to provide reasonable assurance,
on  a  cost-effective  basis,  as to the integrity,  objectivity,  and
reliability  of  the financial records, and as to  the  protection  of
assets.   This system includes communication through written  policies
and  procedures,  an employee Code of Conduct, and  an  organizational
structure that provides for appropriate division of responsibility and
the  training  of  personnel.   This  system  is  also  tested  by   a
comprehensive internal audit program.

       The   independent  public  accountants  provide  an   objective
assessment  of the degree to which management meets its responsibility
for  fairness  of  financial reporting.  They regularly  evaluate  the
system  of  internal accounting controls and perform  such  tests  and
other  procedures  as  they deem necessary to  reach  and  express  an
opinion on the fairness of the financial statements.

      Management  believes that these policies and procedures  provide
reasonable assurance that its operations are carried out with  a  high
standard of business conduct.

/s/ Edwin Lupberger                             /s/ Gerald D. McInvale

EDWIN LUPBERGER                                 GERALD D. MCINVALE
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer            Senior Vice President and
                                                Chief Financial Officer



                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
                   AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
                                   
                                   
      The  Entergy  Corporation  Board of Directors'  Audit  Committee
functions  as the Audit Committee for New Orleans Public Service  Inc.
The  Audit  Committee  is  comprised of four directors,  who  are  not
officers   of  NOPSI:   H.  Duke  Shackelford  (Chairman),  Lucie   J.
Fjeldstad, Dr. Norman C. Francis, and James R. Nichols.  The committee
held four meetings during 1994.

      The Audit Committee oversees NOPSI's financial reporting process
on  behalf of the Board of Directors and provides reasonable assurance
to  the  Board  that sufficient operating, accounting,  and  financial
controls  are in existence and are adequately reviewed by programs  of
internal and external audits.

      The  Audit Committee discussed with Entergy's internal  auditors
and  the independent public accountants (Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.) the
overall scope and specific plans for their respective audits, as  well
as  NOPSI's financial statements and the adequacy of NOPSI's  internal
controls.   The committee met, together and separately, with Entergy's
internal   auditors   and  independent  public  accountants,   without
management  present,  to discuss the results of  their  audits,  their
evaluation  of NOPSI's internal controls, and the overall  quality  of
NOPSI's  financial  reporting.  The meetings  also  were  designed  to
facilitate  and  encourage  any  private  communication  between   the
committee and the internal auditors or independent public accountants.



                                        /s/ H. Duke Shackelford

                                        H. DUKE SHACKELFORD
                                        Chairman, Audit Committee




                                   
                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     New Orleans Public Service Inc.

      We  have audited the accompanying balance sheet of New  Orleans
Public  Service  Inc.  as  of  December  31,  1994,  and  the  related
statements of income, retained earnings  and cash flows for  the  year
then ended.  These financial statements are the responsibility of  the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion  on
these  financial  statements  based  on  our  audit.    The  financial
statements  of the Company as of December 31, 1993 and for  the  years
ended  December  31,  1993 and 1992, were audited by  other  auditors,
whose  report,  dated  February  11,  1994,  included  an  explanatory
paragraph  that  described  changes  in  methods  of  accounting   for
revenues, income taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions
which  are  discussed  in  Notes 1, 3 and  9  respectively,  to  these
financial statements.

      We  conducted  our audit  in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audit  provides   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our  opinion,  the financial statements  referred  to  above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position  of
the Company as of December 31, 1994, and the result  of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for  the year then  ended  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995


                                   
                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
     New Orleans Public Service Inc.

      We  have audited the accompanying  balance sheet of New  Orleans
Public  Service Inc. (NOPSI) as of December 31, 1993, and the  related
statements  of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for  each  of
the  two years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements   are  the  responsibility  of  NOPSI's  management.    Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally  accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements  are  free  of material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements.  An  audit  also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles used and  significant  estimates
made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide   a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all
material  respects, the financial position of NOPSI  at  December  31,
1993, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, NOPSI changed
its  method  of accounting for revenues in 1993 and, as  discussed  in
Notes 3 and 9 to  the financial statements, in 1993 NOPSI changed  its
methods  of  accounting  for income taxes and postretirement  benefits
other than pensions, respectively.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994


                                                     

                                                                
                                                                   
                                                                   

                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
                                   

      Liquidity  is  important to NOPSI due to the  capital  intensive
nature of its business, which requires large investments in long-lived
assets. While large capital expenditures for the construction  of  new
generating  capacity  are not currently planned,  NOPSI  does  require
significant  capital  resources for the periodic maturity  of  certain
series   of   debt  and  preferred  stock  and  ongoing   construction
expenditures.  Net cash flow from operations totaled $39 million,  $70
million,  and $22 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.   Net
cash  flow  from  operations decreased in 1994 due  primarily  to  the
effects  of the 1994 NOPSI Settlement, as discussed below.  In  recent
years,  this  cash  flow,  supplemented by  cash  on  hand,  has  been
sufficient   to   meet  substantially  all  investing  and   financing
requirements,   including   capital   expenditures,   dividends,   and
debt/preferred  stock  maturities.   NOPSI's  ability  to  fund  these
capital  requirements results, in part, from its continued efforts  to
streamline  operations and reduce costs, as well as collections  under
its  Grand  Gulf  1 rate phase-in plan which exceed the  current  cash
requirements  for  Grand  Gulf  1-related  costs.   (In   the   income
statement, these revenue collections are offset by the amortization of
previously  deferred  costs; therefore, there  is  no  effect  on  net
income.)  NOPSI's  Grand Gulf 1 rate phase-in plan  will  continue  to
contribute  to  NOPSI's cash position through 2001.  See  Note  2  for
additional information on NOPSI's rate phase-in plan.  See Note 8  for
additional information on NOPSI's capital and refinancing requirements
in  1995  -  1997.   Also, to the extent current market  interest  and
dividend  rates allow, NOPSI may continue to refinance high-cost  debt
and preferred stock prior to maturity.

      As  discussed in Note 2, NOPSI agreed to reduce electric and gas
rates and issue credits and refunds to customers pursuant to the  1994
NOPSI   Settlement.   Under  the  terms  of  the  settlement,    NOPSI
implemented  rate reductions totaling $44.9 million effective  January
1,  1995.    NOPSI  will  implement an additional  $4.4  million  rate
reduction on October 31, 1995.  In addition, the 1994 NOPSI Settlement
requires  NOPSI  to credit its customers $25 million over  a  21-month
period  beginning January 1, 1995, in order to resolve  disputes  with
the Council regarding the interpretation of the 1991 NOPSI Settlement.
The  1994 NOPSI Settlement also required NOPSI to refund $9.3  million
of  overcollections associated with Grand Gulf 1 operating  costs  and
$10.5  million  of  refunds associated with the settlement  by  System
Energy of a FERC tax audit.  See Note 2 for additional information.

       Earnings  coverage  tests,  bondable  property  additions,  and
accumulated  deferred Grand Gulf 1-related costs recorded  as  assets,
limit  the  amount  of G&R Bonds and preferred stock  that  NOPSI  can
issue.   Based  on  the  most  restrictive  applicable  tests  as   of
December 31, 1994,  and an assumed annual interest or dividend rate of
9.25%, NOPSI could have issued $73 million of additional G&R Bonds  or
$17  million  of additional preferred stock.  Further, NOPSI  has  the
conditional  ability  to  issue G&R Bonds against  the  retirement  of
bonds, in some cases without satisfying an earnings coverage test.

     See Notes 5 and 6 for information on NOPSI's financing activities
and  Note 4 for information on NOPSI's short-term borrowings and lines
of credit.

                                                                  
                        NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                           STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                            
                                          For the Years Ended December 31,
                                            1994        1993         1992
                                                   (In Thousands)
                                                                  
Operating Revenues:                                               
  Electric                               $360,430     $423,830     $391,936
  Natural gas                              87,357       90,992       72,943
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             447,787      514,822      464,879
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                      

Operating Expenses:                                               
  Operation and maintenance:                                      
    Fuel, fuel-related expenses                                   
     and gas purchased for resale         113,735      112,451       90,778
    Purchased power                       145,935      165,963      170,703
    Other operation and maintenance        80,656       87,797       91,735
  Depreciation and amortization            19,275       17,284       16,619
  Taxes other than income taxes            27,814       26,643       27,487
  Income taxes                              3,602       24,232       14,382
  Rate deferrals:                                                 
    Rate deferrals                              -       (1,651)      (1,300)
    Amortization of rate deferrals         27,009       22,351        4,426
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             418,026      455,070      414,830
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      

Operating Income                           29,761       59,752       50,049
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      

Other Income (Deductions):                                        
  Allowance for equity funds used                                     
   during construction                        331          141          119
  Miscellaneous - net                       2,141       (1,055)       3,056
  Income taxes                               (998)      (1,115)      (1,683)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                               1,474       (2,029)       1,492
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                        

Interest Charges:                                                 
  Interest on long-term debt               17,092       20,076       23,510
  Other interest - net                      1,179        1,016        1,714
  Allowance for borrowed funds used
    during construction                      (247)        (130)        (107)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                              18,024       20,962       25,117
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      

Income before Cumulative Effect                                   
of a Change in Accounting Principle        13,211       36,761       26,424

                                                                  
Cumulative Effect to January 1, 1993
 of Accruing Unbilled Revenues                                    
(net of income taxes of $6,592)                 -       10,948            -
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Net Income                                 13,211       47,709       26,424
                                                                  
Preferred Stock Dividend                                          
Requirements and Other                      1,581        1,768        1,999
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Earnings Applicable to Common Stock       $11,630      $45,941      $24,425
                                       ==========   ==========   ==========

                                                                  
See Notes to Financial Statements.
                                                                  
                                                       

                        NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                        STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                                                       
                                           For the Years Ended December 31,
                                             1994      1993        1992
                                                   (In Thousands)
                                                                         
Retained Earnings, January 1               $100,556   $98,560    $106,341
  Add:                                                                   
    Net income                               13,211    47,709      26,424
                                           --------  --------    --------   
 
        Total                               113,767   146,269     132,765
                                           --------  --------    --------  
  Deduct:                                                                
    Dividends declared:                                                  
      Preferred stock                         1,536     1,768       1,999
      Common stock                           33,300    43,900      32,154
    Capital stock expenses                       45        45          52
                                           --------  --------    -------- 
 
        Total                                34,881    45,713      34,205
                                           --------  --------    --------
Retained Earnings, December 31 (Note 7)    $ 78,886  $100,556    $ 98,560
                                           ========  ========    ========  
                                                                   
                                                                           
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                         
                                   

                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

     Net income decreased in 1994 due primarily to the effects of the
1994 NOPSI Settlement (see Note 2) and the one-time recording of  the
cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle for  unbilled
revenues  in 1993, partially offset by lower operating expenses.  Net
income  increased in 1993 due primarily to the one-time recording  of
the  cumulative  effect  of  the change in accounting  principle  for
unbilled  revenues  (see Note 1) and its ongoing  effects,  partially
offset  by  the  effect  of  implementing  SFAS  106  (see  Note  9).
Effective  January  1,  1993, NOPSI began accruing  as  revenues  the
charges  for  energy  delivered  to customers  but  not  yet  billed.
Electric and gas revenues were previously recorded on a cycle-billing
basis.   Excluding  the above mentioned items, net  income  for  1993
would  have been $37.8 million.  This $11.4 million increase  is  due
primarily  to  increased gas revenues and increased  electric  retail
energy sales.

      Significant  factors affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and 1992,
are discussed under "Revenues and Sales" and "Expenses" below.

Revenues and Sales

      See  "Selected Financial Data-Five-Year Comparison,"  following
the  notes, for information on electric operating revenues by  source
and KWH sales.

      Electric operating revenues decreased in 1994 due primarily  to
the  effects  of the 1994 NOPSI Settlement as discussed  in  Note  2.
Electric energy sales increased slightly in 1994.  Electric operating
revenues  were  higher  in  1993  due  primarily  to  increased  fuel
adjustment revenues and increased collections of previously  deferred
Grand Gulf 1-related costs, neither of which affects net income,  and
increased residential energy sales resulting primarily from a  return
to more normal weather as compared to milder weather in 1992.

     Gas operating revenues decreased slightly in 1994 as a result of
lower  gas  sales.   Gas  operating revenues increased  in  1993  due
primarily  to an increase in gas rates and increased fuel  adjustment
revenues  resulting  from  higher  average  per  unit  cost  for  gas
purchased.

Expenses

      Operating  expenses decreased in 1994 due  primarily  to  lower
purchased  power  expense  and lower income  tax  expense.  Operating
expenses  increased  in 1993 due primarily to higher  fuel  expenses,
higher  income  tax  expense,  and  increased  amortization  of  rate
deferrals.

      Purchased  power  expense decreased in 1994  due  primarily  to
changes in generation availability and requirements among the  System
operating  companies  and lower costs.  Fuel for electric  generation
and  fuel-related  expenses  increased  in  1993  due  primarily   to
increased  gas costs and increased generation requirements  resulting
primarily  from increased energy sales as discussed in "Revenues  and
Sales" above.

     Gas purchased for resale decreased in 1994 due to decreased gas
sales.  Gas purchased for resale increased in 1993 due primarily to a
higher average per unit cost for gas purchased.

      Income  taxes decreased in 1994 due primarily to  lower  pretax
income,  resulting from the 1994 NOPSI Settlement, and the  write-off
of  the  unamortized  balances  of deferred  investment  tax  credits
pursuant to the FERC Settlement. Total income taxes increased in 1993
due  primarily to higher pretax income and an increase in the federal
income tax rate as a result of OBRA.

      The increases in the amortization of rate deferrals in 1994 and
1993  is  primarily a result of the collection of larger  amounts  of
previously  deferred  costs under the 1991  NOPSI  Settlement,  which
allowed  NOPSI  to  record an additional $90  million  of  previously
incurred Grand Gulf 1-related costs.



                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS


Competition

       The   electric   utility  industry  is  becoming   increasingly
competitive and NOPSI is seeking to become a leading competitor in the
changing  electric energy business.  Competition presents  NOPSI  with
many  challenges.  The following have been identified by NOPSI as  its
major competitive challenges.

                   Retail and Wholesale Rate Issues
     
       Increasing  competition  in  the  utility  industry  brings  an
increased  need  to stabilize or reduce retail rates.   In  connection
with  the Merger,  NOPSI agreed with the Council to reduce its  annual
electric base rates by $4.8 million effective for bills rendered on or
after  November  1,  1993.  As a result of the 1994  NOPSI  Settlement
discussed in Note 2, NOPSI agreed to reduce electric and gas rates and
issue  credits and refunds to customers.  Effective January  1,  1995,
NOPSI implemented a $31.8 million permanent reduction in electric base
rates and a $3.1 million permanent reduction in gas base rates.  These
adjustments resolved issues associated with NOPSI's return  on  equity
exceeding  13.76% for the test year ended September 30,  1994.   Under
the  1991  NOPSI  Settlement,  NOPSI is  recovering  from  its  retail
customers  its allocable share of certain costs related to Grand  Gulf
1.   NOPSI's  base  rates  to recover those costs  were  derived  from
estimates of those costs made at that time.  Any overrecovery of costs
is required to be returned to customers.  Grand Gulf 1 has experienced
lower operating costs than previously estimated, and NOPSI accordingly
is  reducing its base rates in two steps to more accurately match  the
current  costs  related  to Grand Gulf 1. On January  1,  1995,  NOPSI
implemented  a $10 million permanent reduction in base electric  rates
to  reflect the reduced costs related to Grand Gulf 1, to be  followed
by  an  additional  $4.4 million rate reduction on October  31,  1995.
These  Grand Gulf 1 rate reductions, which are expected to be  largely
offset  by  lower  operating costs, may reduce NOPSI's  after-tax  net
income  by  approximately $1.4 million per year beginning November  1,
1995.   The next scheduled Grand Gulf 1 phase-in rate increase in  the
amount  of  $4.4 million on October 31, 1995, will not be affected  by
the 1994 NOPSI Settlement.

      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also requires NOPSI  to  credit  its
customers  $25  million over a 21-month period  beginning  January  1,
1995,  in  order  to resolve disputes with the Council  regarding  the
interpretation  of  the  1991  NOPSI Settlement.   NOPSI  reduced  its
revenues  and  recorded a $15.4 million net-of-tax reserve  associated
with  the  credit  in  the fourth quarter of  1994.   The  1994  NOPSI
Settlement  further required NOPSI to refund, in December 1994,  $13.3
million of credits previously scheduled to be made to customers during
the  period  January  1995  through July  1995.   These  credits  were
associated  with  a July 7, 1994, Council resolution  that  ordered  a
$24.95 million rate reduction based on NOPSI's overearnings during the
test year ended September 30, 1993.  Accordingly, NOPSI recorded an $8
million net-of-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 1994.

      Retail  wheeling,  the transmission by an  electric  utility  of
energy produced by another entity over the utility's transmission  and
distribution  system  to a retail customer in the  electric  utility's
area  of service, is also evolving.  Over a dozen states have been  or
are  studying the concept of retail competition.  In April  1994,  the
state of Michigan initiated a five-year experiment that allows limited
competition  among  public  utilities.  During  the  same  month,  the
California  Public  Utilities Commission proposed to  deregulate  that
state's electric power industry, starting on January 1, 1996, to allow
the  largest  industrial customers to select the lowest cost  supplier
for  electricity  service.   Under the proposal,  by  the  year  2002,
smaller  companies and residential customers in California would  also
be  able  to  buy  power  from any suppliers.  The  California  Public
Utilities  Commission  is  currently reviewing  its  proposal  and  is
expected to make a ruling in the first half of 1995. The retail market
for electricity is expected to become more competitive with such moves
toward deregulation.

      In  some  areas  of the country, municipalities  (or  comparable
entities)  whose  residents are served at retail by an  investor-owned
utility  pursuant  to  a franchise are exploring  the  possibility  of
establishing new or extending existing distribution systems or seeking
new  delivery  points  in order to serve retail customers,  especially
large  industrial customers, that currently receive  service  from  an
investor-owned  utility.   These options depend  on  the  terms  of  a
utility's  franchise  as  well as on state  law  and  regulation.   In
addition, FERC's authority to order utilities to transmit for a new or
expanding  municipal  system is limited in  certain  respects.   Where
successful,  however, the establishment of a municipal system  or  the
acquisition  by  a  municipal system of a  utility's  customers  could
result in the inability to recover costs that the utility has incurred
in serving those customers.

      In  mid-1994,  the  FERC issued a notice of proposed  rulemaking
concerning  a  regulatory  framework  for  dealing  with  recovery  of
stranded costs, such as high cost nuclear generating units, which  may
be   incurred   by  electric  utilities  as  a  result  of   increased
competition.   In  addition to addressing recovery of  stranded  costs
related  to  wholesale service, the proposal requested comment  as  to
recovery  of  retail stranded costs in transmission rates where  state
regulatory  authorities  failed  to  address  the  issue  or  were  in
conflict.  Comments and reply comments have been filed, and the matter
is  pending.  The risk of exposure to stranded costs which may  result
from  competition in the industry will depend on the extent and timing
of   retail  competition,  the  resolution  of  jurisdictional  issues
concerning stranded cost recovery, and the extent to which such  costs
are  recovered  from  departing or remaining  customers,  among  other
matters.

      In the wholesale rate area, FERC approved in 1992, with certain
modifications, the proposal of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  Entergy
Power to sell wholesale power at market-based rates and to provide to
electric utilities "open access" to the System's transmission  system
(subject  to  certain  requirements).  GSU was later  added  to  this
filing.  On October 31, 1994, as amended on January 25, 1995, Entergy
Services  filed  with FERC revised transmission tariffs  intended  to
provide  access  to  transmission service on the same  or  comparable
basis,  terms, and conditions as the System operating companies,  and
the  matter  is  pending.  Open access and market  pricing,  once  in
effect,  will  increase marketing opportunities for NOPSI,  but  will
also expose NOPSI to the risk of loss of load or reduced revenues due
to competition with alternative suppliers.

       In  light  of  the  rate  issues  discussed  above,  NOPSI   is
aggressively reducing costs to avoid potential earnings erosions  that
might  result as well as to become more competitive.  In  1994,  NOPSI
announced  a restructuring program related to certain of its operating
units.   This  program  is  designed  to  reduce  costs  and   improve
operating  efficiencies.  See Note 12 for further information.   Also,
in   response  to  an  increasingly  competitive  environment,   NOPSI
announced  intentions  to  revise  its  initial  least  cost  planning
activities.
                                   
                       The Energy Policy Act of 1992
                                   
     The EPAct addresses a wide range of energy issues and is altering
the  way  Entergy  and  the  rest  of the  electric  utility  industry
operate.  The  EPAct encourages competition and affords utilities  the
opportunities,  and  the  risks, associated  with  an  open  and  more
competitive  market  environment.  The EPAct creates  exemptions  from
regulation under the Holding Company Act and creates a class of exempt
wholesale generators consisting of utility affiliates and nonutilities
that  are  owners and operators of facilities for the  generation  and
transmission  of power for sales at wholesale.  The EPAct  also  gives
FERC the authority to order investor-owned utilities, including NOPSI,
to  transmit  power  and  energy to or for  wholesale  purchasers  and
sellers.   The  law creates the potential for electric  utilities  and
other  power  producers to gain increased access to  the  transmission
systems  of other entities to facilitate wholesale sales.  Both  NOPSI
and  Entergy Power expect to compete in this market.  In addition, the
EPAct   allows  utilities  to  own  and  operate  foreign  generation,
transmission, and distribution facilities.

Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.   In  accordance  with the agreement, System  Energy  refunded
approximately  $10.5 million to NOPSI, which in turn made  refunds  on
December  31,  1994, to customers.  Additionally, System  Energy  will
refund a total of approximately $10.5 million, plus interest, to NOPSI
over  the period through June 2004.  The settlement also required  the
write-off   of  approximately  $1.7  million  of  certain  unamortized
deferred investment tax credits by NOPSI.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standards - The FASB has proposed a SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition  and measurement of asset impairment.  Certain  operations
of NOPSI are potentially affected by this standard,  and any resulting
write-offs  will  depend on future operating costs, generating  units'
efficiency and availability, and the future market for energy over the
remaining  life  of  the  units.  Based on  current  estimates,  NOPSI
anticipates that future revenues will fully recover the costs of  such
operations.

      Continued  Application of SFAS 71 - NOPSI's financial statements
currently  reflect  assets  and  costs  based  on  current  cost-based
ratemaking  regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting  for
the  Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  As discussed above, the
electric utility industry is changing and these changes could possibly
result  in  the  discontinuance of the application of SFAS  71,  which
would  result in the elimination of regulatory assets and liabilities.
See Note 1 for further information.



                                   
                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      NOPSI  maintains  accounts in accordance  with  FERC  and  other
regulatory guidelines. Certain previously reported amounts  have  been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

      Prior to January 1, 1993, NOPSI recorded revenues when billed to
its customers with no accrual for energy delivered but not yet billed.
To  provide  a  better  matching of revenues and  expenses,  effective
January  1,  1993, NOPSI adopted a change in accounting  principle  to
provide  for  accrual  of the nonfuel portion  of  estimated  unbilled
revenues.   The  cumulative effect of this  accounting  change  as  of
January  1, 1993 increased net income by $10.9 million.  Had this  new
accounting method been in effect during prior years, net income before
the  cumulative  effect would not have been materially different  from
that shown in the accompanying financial statements.

      NOPSI's rate schedules include electric fuel adjustment and  gas
cost  adjustment clauses that allow deferral of fuel costs until  such
costs are reflected in the related revenues.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of
utility  plant retired or removed, plus the applicable removal  costs,
less  salvage,  is charged to accumulated depreciation.   Maintenance,
repairs,   and  minor  replacement  costs  are  charged  to  operating
expenses.   Substantially all of NOPSI's utility plant is  subject  to
the liens of its mortgage bond indentures.

     Total NOPSI net electric utility plant in service of $205 million
as  of December 31, 1994 includes $26 million of production plant, $20
million of transmission plant, $141 million of distribution plant, and
$18  million  of  other  plant.  Total net gas utility  plant  of  $66
million  as of December 31, 1994 is primarily comprised of $60 million
of distribution plant.

      Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  basis  at  rates
based  on  the  estimated service lives and costs of  removal  of  the
various  classes  of  property.  Depreciation  provisions  on  average
depreciable property approximated 3.1% in 1994, 1993, and 1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included  in rates.  NOPSI's effective composite rates for AFUDC  were
10.4%, 11.4%, and 12.1% for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Income Taxes

      NOPSI,  its  parent, and affiliates file a consolidated  federal
income  tax  return. Income taxes are allocated to NOPSI in proportion
to  its  contribution to consolidated taxable income.  SEC regulations
require that no Entergy Corporation subsidiary pay more taxes than  it
would  have  had  a separate income tax return been  filed.   Deferred
taxes  are  recorded for all temporary differences  between  book  and
taxable  income.   Investment tax credits are deferred  and  amortized
based  upon  the  average  useful life  of  the  related  property  in
accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed in Note 3, in 1993 NOPSI
changed its accounting for income taxes to conform with SFAS 109.

Other Noncurrent Liabilities

      NOPSI  records  provisions for uninsured risks  and  claims  for
injuries  and  damages through charges to operations  expenses  on  an
accrual  basis.   Provisions for these accruals, classified  as  other
noncurrent liabilities, have been allowed for ratemaking purposes.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      NOPSI  considers all unrestricted highly liquid debt instruments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and a modified regulatory environment. NOPSI's  financial
statements  currently reflect assets and costs based on current  cost-
based  ratemaking regulations in accordance with SFAS 71,  "Accounting
for   the   Effects  of  Certain  Types  of  Regulation."    Continued
applicability of SFAS 71 to NOPSI's financial statements requires that
rates  set  by  an  independent regulator on a cost of  service  basis
(including  a  reasonable  rate of return  on  invested  capital)  can
actually be charged to and collected from customers.

      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation or a change in  the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As of December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future, NOPSI's
financial statements continue to follow SFAS 71.

Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined   by   NOPSI,  using  available  market   information   and
appropriate  valuation methodologies.  However, considerable  judgment
is  required  in  developing the estimates of fair value.   Therefore,
estimates  are  not necessarily indicative of the amounts  that  NOPSI
could  realize  in a current market exchange.  In addition,  gains  or
losses  realized on financial instruments may be reflected  in  future
rates and not accrue to the benefit of stockholders.

      NOPSI  considers  the carrying amounts of financial  instruments
classified  as  current  assets and liabilities  to  be  a  reasonable
estimate  of their fair value because of the short maturity  of  these
instruments.   In  addition,  NOPSI does  not  presently  expect  that
performance  of  its obligations will be required in  connection  with
certain   off-balance  sheet  commitments  and  guarantees  considered
financial instruments. Due to this factor, and because of the  related
party  nature  of  these commitments and guarantees, determination  of
fair  value  is not considered practicable.  See Notes  5  and  6  for
additional fair value disclosure.

NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

1994 NOPSI Settlement

      In  a  settlement with the Council that was approved on December
29,  1994,  NOPSI  agreed to reduce electric and gas rates  and  issue
credits  and  refunds to customers.  Effective January 1, 1995,  NOPSI
implemented a $31.8 million permanent reduction in electric base rates
and  a  $3.1  million permanent reduction in gas  base  rates.   These
adjustments resolved issues associated with NOPSI's return  on  equity
exceeding  13.76% for the test year ended September 30,  1994.   Under
the  1991  NOPSI  Settlement,  NOPSI is  recovering  from  its  retail
customers  its allocable share of certain costs related to Grand  Gulf
1.   NOPSI's  base  rates  to recover those costs  were  derived  from
estimates of those costs made at that time.  Any overrecovery of costs
is required to be returned to customers.  Grand Gulf 1 has experienced
lower operating costs than previously estimated, and NOPSI accordingly
is  reducing its base rates in two steps to more accurately match  the
current  costs  related to Grand Gulf 1.  On  January 1,  1995,  NOPSI
implemented  a $10 million permanent reduction in base electric  rates
to  reflect the reduced costs related to Grand Gulf 1, to be  followed
by  an  additional  $4.4 million rate reduction on October  31,  1995.
These  Grand  Gulf rate reductions, which are expected to  be  largely
offset  by  lower  operating costs, may reduce NOPSI's  after-tax  net
income  by  approximately $1.4 million per year beginning November  1,
1995.   The next scheduled Grand Gulf 1 phase-in rate increase in  the
amount of $4.4 million on October 31, 1995 will not be affected by the
1994 NOPSI Settlement.
     
      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also requires NOPSI  to  credit  its
customers  $25  million over a 21-month period  beginning  January  1,
1995,  in  order  to resolve disputes with the Council  regarding  the
interpretation  of  the  1991  NOPSI Settlement.   NOPSI  reduced  its
revenues  by  $25  million  and recorded a  $15.4  million  net-of-tax
reserve associated with the credit in the fourth quarter of 1994.  The
1994  NOPSI  Settlement further required NOPSI to refund, in  December
1994,  $13.3  million of credits previously scheduled to  be  made  to
customers  during  the period January 1995 through July  1995.   These
credits  were associated with a July 7, 1994, Council resolution  that
ordered  a $24.95 million rate reduction based on NOPSI's overearnings
during  the  test year  ended September 30, 1993.  Accordingly,  NOPSI
recorded  an  $8  million net-of-tax charge in the fourth  quarter  of
1994.

      The  1994  NOPSI Settlement also required NOPSI to  refund  $9.3
million  of  overcollections associated with Grand  Gulf  1  operating
costs, and $10.5 million of refunds associated with the settlement  by
System  Energy of  a FERC tax audit.  The settlement of the  FERC  tax
audit  by System Energy required refunds to be passed on to NOPSI  and
to other Entergy subsidiaries and then on to customers.  These refunds
have no effect on current period net income.

Merger - Related Rate Agreement

      In 1993, the Council adopted resolutions accepting a proposal by
NOPSI to settle certain issues related to the Merger.  Pursuant to the
resolutions,  the Council agreed to withdraw from the  SEC  proceeding
related  to  the Merger.  In return NOPSI agreed, among other  things,
that  retail ratepayers in the City of New Orleans would be  protected
from  (1)  increases in NOPSI's cost of capital resulting  from  risks
associated  with  the  Merger; (2) recovery  of  any  portion  of  the
acquisition premium or transactional costs associated with the Merger;
(3)  certain  direct allocations of costs associated with GSU's  River
Bend nuclear unit; and (4) any losses of GSU resulting from resolution
of  litigation in connection with its ownership of River Bend.   NOPSI
was  required to reduce its annual electric base rates by $4.8 million
effective  for  bills rendered on or after November 1,  1993,  and  to
expense its SFAS 106 costs.  NOPSI's SFAS 106 expenses through October
31,  1996,  will be allowed by the Council for purposes of  evaluating
the appropriateness of NOPSI's rates.  The Council also agreed not  to
seek  to  disallow  the first $3.5 million of costs  incurred  through
October 31, 1993, in connection with the Least Cost Plan.

Prudence Settlement and Finalized Phase-In Plan

      The  February 4 Resolution required NOPSI to write off, and  not
recover  from  its  retail electric customers,  $135  million  of  its
previously  deferred  costs  associated  with  Grand  Gulf  1.    This
write-off,  which  was recorded in NOPSI's 1987 financial  statements,
was  in  addition  to the $51.2 million of Grand Gulf 1-related  costs
originally  absorbed and not recovered by NOPSI as part  of  the  1986
Rate  Settlement.   In  1991, NOPSI reached a settlement  (1991  NOPSI
Settlement)  with the Council and with the Alliance that resolved  the
Grand Gulf 1 prudence issues and the pending litigation related to the
February 4 Resolution.

       The  1991  NOPSI  Settlement  supersedes  both  the  1986  Rate
Settlement (which established a rate phase-in plan designed to  reduce
the  immediate effect on ratepayers of the inclusion of Grand  Gulf  1
costs in rates) and the February 4 Resolution, and provides that there
will  be  no  further  disallowance  of  the  recovery  of  any  Grand
Gulf 1-related costs incurred by NOPSI based on any alleged imprudence
by  NOPSI  that  may have occurred or may be alleged to have  occurred
prior  to  the effective date of the 1991 NOPSI Settlement.  The  1991
NOPSI  Settlement  included a rate decrease in  1991,  followed  by  a
series  of rate increases.  The last of the rate increases will become
effective on October 31, 1995, in the amount of $4.4 million.

      In  connection  with  the  rate  changes,  NOPSI  implemented  a
finalized  phase-in plan, covering a ten-year period from  October  1,
1991  through  September 30, 2001, for recovery of all  Grand  Gulf  1
deferred costs, including associated carrying charges.

      NOPSI  agreed to a five-year electric base rate freeze extending
through October 31, 1996, excluding the annual rate increases provided
for  above  and except for increases to reflect an increase  in  state
and/or  federal  income tax rates or a catastrophic event  such  as  a
hurricane.  NOPSI also agreed that during the period October  1,  1992
through  October  31,  1996  the  Council  will  have  the  right   to
investigate the appropriateness of NOPSI's rates if NOPSI's return  on
average  equity on its electric operations (calculated  in  accordance
with  the  applicable  provisions of the 1991  NOPSI  Settlement)  for
twelve  month periods subsequent to September 30, 1992 were to  exceed
13.76%,   and,  after  hearing(s),  to  impose  a  credit  on  NOPSI's
customers'  bills in an amount that would have allowed  NOPSI,  during
the  relevant  test year, to earn a return on equity incident  to  its
electric  operations  of no less than 12.76% (see  discussion  below).
The Council agreed otherwise not to reduce NOPSI's base electric rates
during  the  period  through October 31,  1996  except  to  reflect  a
decrease  in state and/or federal income tax rates; however, this  was
amended by the 1994 NOPSI Settlement discussed above.

      NOPSI  will  include in the "over/under" provision of  its  fuel
adjustment  clause on a monthly basis the difference, if any,  between
the  non-fuel Grand Gulf 1 costs billed by System Energy to NOPSI  and
the estimate of such costs attached to the 1991 NOPSI Settlement, with
the Council having the right to suspend this provision in the event of
a  catastrophe  involving  Grand Gulf 1.  In  the  event  the  Council
suspends  this  provision, NOPSI will have the right to  seek  a  rate
increase  notwithstanding the  five-year  electric  base  rate  freeze 
discussed above.  In addition, the 1994 NOPSI Settlement now  requires 
interest to be included in the  "over/under" provision.

Gas Rate Filing

     In May 1992, NOPSI and the Council reached a settlement regarding
NOPSI's  application  for an increase in gas  rates.   The  settlement
includes the following terms, among others:

           (i)  an  aggregate  net  rate  increase  of  $7.5  million,
     effective on May 22, 1992, phased in over a two-year period.  The
     year  one net increase is stipulated to be $3.8 million, with  an
     additional  $3.0  million being deferred for  recovery  in  equal
     annual  installments in years two through six.  The net  increase
     in year two of $3.7 million includes $730,000 for recovery of the
     costs   deferred  in  year  one  (including  associated  carrying
     charges).
     
           (ii) except as provided above, and except for increases  to
     reflect an increase in state and/or federal income tax rates or a
     catastrophic event such as a hurricane, NOPSI has agreed to a gas
     base  rate  freeze  through October 31, 1996; however,  this  was
     amended by the 1994 NOPSI Settlement discussed above.
     
      In  addition,  the  settlement provides that earnings  from  gas
operations  will be included with those from electric  operations  for
purposes  of  the return on average equity ceiling provisions  of  the
1991  NOPSI  Settlement (discussed above) and revises  the  method  of
calculating such return on equity ceiling.



      Total  income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying
the  statutory  federal income tax rate to income before  taxes.   The
reasons for the differences were:



     Significant components of NOPSI's net deferred tax liabilities as
of December 31, 1994 and 1993, were:

                                                     1994         1993
                                                       (In Thousands)
  Deferred tax liabilities:                                     
   Net regulatory assets                           $(12,946)    $(13,465)
   Plant related basis differences                  (50,624)     (49,753)
   Rate deferrals                                   (74,054)     (80,380)
   Other                                             (3,303)      (5,194)
                                                  ---------    ---------
    Total                                         $(140,927)   $(148,792)
                                                  =========    =========
                                                                
  Deferred tax assets:                                          
   Unbilled revenues                               $  3,051     $  5,812
   Accumulated deferred investment tax credit         4,154        4,460
   Pension related items                              4,497        5,804
   Removal cost                                       9,146        8,197
   Standard coal plant                                2,783        2,861
   Operating reserves                                 6,665        6,934
   Rate refund                                        9,620            -
   Other                                              6,840        4,660
                                                   --------     --------
    Total                                          $ 46,756     $ 38,728
                                                   ========     ========

    Net deferred tax liabilities                   $(94,171)   $(110,064)
                                                   ========    =========

      In  accordance with a System Energy FERC settlement, NOPSI wrote
off $1.7 million of unamortized deferred investment tax credits in 1994.

     In 1993, NOPSI adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that deferred
income   taxes   be   recorded  for  all  temporary  differences   and
carryforwards, and that deferred tax balances be based on enacted  tax
laws at tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences  reverse.   SFAS 109 required that  regulated  enterprises
recognize  adjustments  resulting from  implementation  as  regulatory
assets  or  liabilities if it is probable that such  amounts  will  be
recovered  from  or  returned  to  customers  in  future   rates.    A
substantial  majority  of the adjustments required  by  SFAS  109  was
recorded  to  deferred  tax  balance sheet  accounts  with  offsetting
adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities.  As a result of  the
adoption  of SFAS 109, 1993 net income was increased by $0.3  million,
assets  were increased by $4.1 million, and liabilities were increased
by $3.8 million.  The cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS 109 is
included in income tax expense charged to operations.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

      The SEC has authorized NOPSI to effect short-term borrowings  of
up  to  $39 million. This authorization is effective through  November
30,  1996.  In addition, NOPSI can borrow from the Money Pool, subject
to  its  maximum  authorized level of short-term  borrowings  and  the
availability of funds.  NOPSI's short-term borrowings are also limited
by  the  terms of its G&R Bond indenture to amounts not exceeding,  in
general, the greater of 10% of capitalization or 50% of Grand  Gulf  1
rate  deferrals available to support the issuance of G&R Bonds.  NOPSI
had  no outstanding borrowings under these arrangements as of December
31, 1994.



                                                     

                                                                    
                                                                       
                                                                   

                                   
                     SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


     The financial condition of System Energy significantly depends on
the  continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf 1 and on the receipt
of payments from AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  Payments under the Unit
Power  Sales  Agreement are System Energy's only source  of  operating
revenues.   Net  cash flow from operations totaled $337 million,  $318
million,  and $252 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.   In
recent years, this cash flow has been sufficient to meet substantially
all   investing   and   financing  requirements,   including   capital
expenditures,  dividends,  and  debt  maturities.   See  Note  7   for
information on System Energy's capital and refinancing requirements in
1995  - 1997. Also, to the extent current market interest and dividend
rates  allow,  System Energy may continue to refinance high-cost  debt
prior to maturity.

      As  discussed  in  Note 2, in November 1994,  FERC  approved  an
agreement  settling  a  long-standing  dispute  involving  income  tax
allocation  procedures  of System Energy.   In  connection  with  this
settlement,  System  Energy refunded approximately  $61.7  million  to
AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L, and NOPSI, which in turn have made  or  will  make
refunds  or  credits  to their customers (except  for  those  portions
attributable  to  AP&L's and LP&L's retained share  of  Grand  Gulf  1
costs).    Additionally,  System  Energy  will  refund  a   total   of
approximately  $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and
NOPSI  over the period through June 2004.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI
also  wrote-off  certain  related  unamortized  balances  of  deferred
investment  tax  credits.  See Note 2 for further information  on  the
FERC Settlement.

      As  a result of the charges associated with the FERC Settlement,
System  Energy obtained the consent of certain banks (parties  to  the
Reimbursement  Agreement)  to  waive  temporarily  the  fixed   charge
coverage covenant in the letters of credit and Reimbursement Agreement
related  to  the  Grand Gulf 1 sale and leaseback  transaction,  until
November 30, 1995.  System Energy expects that upon expiration of  the
waiver period, it will be in compliance with the fixed charge coverage
covenant.   Absent a waiver, System Energy's failure to  perform  this
covenant  could cause a draw under the letters of credit and/or  early
termination  of the letters of credit.  If the letters of credit  were
not  replaced  in a timely manner, a default or early  termination  of
System Energy's leases could result.

      Earnings coverage tests, bondable property additions, and equity
ratio  requirements contained in its mortgage, and in its  letters  of
credit and Reimbursement Agreement in connection with the Grand Gulf 1
sale  and  leaseback transactions, limit the amount of first  mortgage
bonds  that  System Energy can issue.  Based on the  most  restrictive
applicable  tests  as  of December 31, 1994, and  assuming  an  annual
interest  rate of 9.25%, System Energy could have issued $241  million
of additional first mortgage bonds.  System Energy has the conditional
ability to issue first mortgage bonds against the retirement of  first
mortgage bonds, in some cases, without satisfying an earnings coverage
test.

      In  connection  with  the financing of  Grand  Gulf  1,  Entergy
Corporation has undertaken, in the Capital Funds Agreement, to provide
to  System  Energy sufficient capital to (1) maintain System  Energy's
equity  capital at an amount equal to at least 35% of System  Energy's
total  capitalization  (excluding short-term  debt),  (2)  permit  the
continuation of commercial operation of Grand Gulf 1, and  (3)  enable
System  Energy to pay in full all borrowings, whether at maturity,  on
prepayment,  on  acceleration,  or otherwise.   In  addition,  Entergy
Corporation has agreed in the Capital Funds Agreement to make  certain
cash  capital contributions, if required, to enable System  Energy  to
make payments when due on specific issues of its long-term debt.

      See  Note 4 for information regarding System Energy's short-term
borrowings.

                                                                  
                          SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                             STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                            
                                          For the Years Ended December 31, 
                                            1994       1993         1992
                                                  (In Thousands)
                                                                  
Operating Revenues                       $474,963     $650,768     $723,410
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                   
                                       
Operating Expenses:                                               
  Operation and maintenance:                                      
    Fuel and fuel-related expenses         48,107       42,296       55,110
    Other operation and maintenance        96,504      135,349      132,341
  Depreciation and decommissioning         93,861       90,920       90,628
  Taxes other than income taxes            26,637       26,589       28,717
  Income taxes                             38,087       83,412       93,438
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             303,196      378,566      400,234
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                  
Operating Income                          171,767      272,202      323,176
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                      
                                       
Other Income (Deductions):                                        
  Allowance for equity funds used                                     
   during construction                      1,090          772          681
  Miscellaneous - net                       6,402        6,518        5,816
  Income taxes                              1,250        4,859        4,584
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                               8,742       12,149       11,081
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------  
                     

Interest Charges:                                                 
  Interest on long-term debt              169,248      189,338      203,035
  Other interest - net                      7,257        1,600        1,506
  Allowance for borrowed funds                                    
   used during construction                (1,403)        (514)        (425)
                                       ----------   ----------   ----------
        Total                             175,102      190,424      204,116
                                       ----------   ----------   ---------- 
                     

Net Income                                 $5,407      $93,927     $130,141
                                       ==========   ==========   ==========
                                                                  
See Notes to Financial Statements.

                                                             
                        SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                       STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
                                                       
                                         For the Years Ended December 31,
                                           1994      1993       1992
                                                (In Thousands)
                                                                       
Retained Earnings, January 1             $228,574  $367,747    $375,306
  Add:                                                                 
    Net income                              5,407    93,927     130,141
                                         --------  --------    --------        
        Total                             233,981   461,674     505,447
                                         --------  --------    --------  
  Deduct:                                                              
    Dividends declared                    148,300   233,100     137,700
                                         --------  --------    --------
Retained Earnings, December 31 (Note 6)  $ 85,681  $228,574    $367,747
                                         ========  ========    ========   
                                                             
                                                                         
See Notes to Financial Statements.                                       

                                   

                                   
                     SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Net Income

      Net income decreased in 1994 primarily due to the effect of the
FERC  Settlement which reduced income by $80.2 million (see  Note  2)
and  a  lower rate of return on System Energy's decreasing investment
in Grand Gulf 1,  partially offset by a decrease in interest expense.
Net  income decreased in 1993 primarily due to the impact of the FERC
Return  on  Equity  Case settlement regarding the  return  on  equity
component of System Energy's formula wholesale rates, as discussed in
Note  2. This decrease in revenue was partially offset by a reduction
in interest expense due to the retirement of high-cost debt.

      Significant  factors affecting the results  of  operations  and
causing variances between the years 1994 and 1993, and 1993 and  1992
are discussed under "Revenues" and "Expenses" below.

Revenues

     Operating revenues recover operating expenses, depreciation, and
capital  costs attributable to Grand Gulf 1.  The capital  costs  are
computed by allowing a return, currently set at a rate of 11.0%, (see
Note 2 for further information on the FERC Return on Equity Case)  on
System  Energy's common equity funds allocable to its net  investment
in  Grand Gulf 1 plus System Energy's effective interest cost for its
debt allocable to its investment in Grand Gulf 1.

     Operating revenues decreased in 1994 due primarily to the effect
of  the  FERC Settlement as discussed in "Net Income" above, a  lower
return  on  System Energy's decreasing investment  in  Grand  Gulf  1
(caused  by  depreciation  of the unit) and decreased  operation  and
maintenance expenses. Future revenues attributable to the  return  on
investment  are  expected to decline each year as  a  result  of  the
depreciation of System Energy's investment in Grand Gulf 1. Operating
revenues  decreased in 1993 due primarily to the effect of  the  FERC
Return on Equity Case settlement which reduced System Energy's return
on  equity  as discussed in "Net Income" above and a lower return  on
System Energy's decreasing investment in Grand Gulf 1.

Expenses

      Operating  expenses decreased in 1994 due  primarily  to  lower
other operation and maintenance expense and lower income tax expense.
Operating expenses decreased in 1993 due primarily to lower fuel  and  
lower  income  tax expense.

     Grand Gulf 1 was on-line for 345 of 365 days in 1994 as compared
with 284 of 365 days in 1993.  The unit capability factor, which is a
measure  of  the  unit's performance (based on a ratio  of  available
energy  generation to the maximum power capability multiplied by  the
period  hours), was 92.26% for 1994 as compared with 76.1% for  1993.
These  variances  are  primarily due to the  unit's  sixth  refueling
outage  that  lasted  from September 28, 1993 to  December  3,  1993,
(67  days)  and  to a lesser extent,  the unplanned outages  in  1994
totaling  20  days, compared to 1993 of 14 days. The lower  level  of
outages  for 1994 increased fuel for electric generation,   partially
offset  by  less  expensive  nuclear  fuel  and  increased  operating
efficiency.  Nonfuel  operation  and  maintenance  expense  decreased
significantly  in 1994 also due to the lower level  of  outages.  The
1993  decrease  in  fuel  for electric generation  and  fuel  related
expenses  is  primarily  due to the sixth  refueling  outage  and  to
refueling  with  less  expensive nuclear  fuel.  Increased  operating
efficiency  was  another contributor to the 1993  decrease.   Nonfuel
operation and maintenance expense increased in 1993 due primarily  to
the sixth refueling outage as discussed above.

      Total  income  taxes decreased in 1994 due primarily  to  lower
pretax  book  income.  Total  income  taxes  decreased  in  1993  due
primarily to lower pretax book income partially offset by an increase
in the federal income tax rate as a result of OBRA.

      Interest  expense  decreased  in  1994  due  primarily  to  the
refinancing and maturity of high-cost long-term debt partially offset
by interest associated with the FERC Settlement refunds (see Note 2).



                                   
                     SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                                   
            MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                                   
                 SIGNIFICANT FACTORS AND KNOWN TRENDS
                                   
                                   
FERC Settlement

      See  Note 2 for information with respect to a settlement between
System  Energy  and FERC in which System Energy refunded approximately
$61.7 million to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI, which in turn have  made
or  will make refunds or credits to their customers (except for  those
portions  attributable to AP&L's and LP&L's retained  share  of  Grand
Gulf  costs).   Additionally, System Energy will  refund  a  total  of
approximately  $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L,  and
NOPSI  over the period through June 2004.  AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI
also  wrote-off  certain  related  unamortized  balances  of  deferred
investment tax credits.

Accounting Issues

      Proposed Accounting Standard - The FASB has proposed a  SFAS  on
"Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets,"  effective
January 1, 1996.  The proposed standard describes circumstances  which
may  result  in  assets  being  impaired  and  provides  criteria  for
recognition and measurement of asset impairment. Certain operations of
System  Energy  are  potentially affected by this  standard,  and  any
resulting write-offs will depend on future operating costs, efficiency
and  availability  of Grand Gulf 1, and the future market  for  energy
over  the  remaining  life of the unit.  Based on  current  estimates,
System Energy anticipates that future revenues will fully recover  the
costs of such operations.

      Continued  Application  of SFAS 71 - System  Energy's  financial
statements  currently reflect assets and costs based on current  cost-
based  ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  The electric utility
industry  is changing and these changes could possibly result  in  the
discontinuance of the application of SFAS 71 which would result in the
elimination  of  regulatory assets and liabilities.  See  Note  1  for
further information.

      Accounting  for  Decommissioning Costs - The FASB  is  currently
reviewing  the accounting for decommissioning of nuclear plants.  This
project  could possibly change System Energy's, as well as the  entire
utility   industry's,  accounting  for  such   costs.    For   further
information, see Note 7.




                                   
                     SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                                   
                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   
                                   
NOTE 1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       System  Energy  maintains  accounts  in  accordance  with  FERC
guidelines.    Certain   previously   reported   amounts   have   been
reclassified to conform to current classifications.

Organization

      System  Energy is a generating company providing electricity  to
AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI and has a 90% interest in Grand Gulf 1,  a
nuclear  generating station with a total capability of 1,143  MW  that
began  operation  in  1985.  In June 1990, Entergy Operations  assumed
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of Grand Gulf 1.

      System Energy has a combined ownership and leasehold interest of
90% and SMEPA has an undivided ownership interest of 10% in Grand Gulf
1.  System Energy records its investment associated with Grand Gulf  1
to  the extent to which it owns and maintains a leasehold interest  in
the  generating station.  Likewise, System Energy's operating expenses
reflected  in the accompanying financial statements represent  90%  of
such Grand Gulf 1 expenses.

Utility Plant

      Utility plant is stated at original cost.  The original cost  of
utility  plant retired or removed, plus the applicable removal  costs,
less  salvage,  is charged to accumulated depreciation.   Maintenance,
repairs,   and  minor  replacement  costs  are  charged  to  operating
expenses.   Substantially all of the utility  plant  owned  by  System
Energy is subject to the lien of its first mortgage bond indenture.

      Utility  plant includes the portions of Grand Gulf 1  that  were
sold  and  are  currently  under lease.  System  Energy  retired  this
property  from  its  continuing property  records  as  formerly  owned
property  released  from  and  no longer subject  to  System  Energy's
mortgage  and deed of trust.  System Energy is reflecting such  leased
property for financial reporting purposes as property under lease from
others  and is depreciating this property over the life of  the  basic
lease term.  Such depreciation is being deferred as a regulatory asset
until recoverable from customers in future periods (see Note 8).

      Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis at rates based
on  the  estimated service lives and costs of removal of  the  various
classes  of  property.  Depreciation provisions on average depreciable
property approximated 3.0% in 1994 and 2.9% in 1993 and 1992.

      AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost  of
borrowed  funds and a reasonable return on the equity funds  used  for
construction.   Although AFUDC increases utility plant  and  increases
earnings,  it is only realized in cash through depreciation provisions
included  in  rates.   System Energy's effective composite  rates  for
AFUDC  were  10.7%,  11.6%,  and  12.3%  for  1994,  1993,  and  1992,
respectively.

Income Taxes

      System  Energy, its parent, and affiliates file  a  consolidated
federal  income  tax  return.  Income taxes are  allocated  to  System
Energy  in  proportion  to  its contribution to  consolidated  taxable
income.    SEC   regulations   require  that  no  Entergy  Corporation
subsidiary pay more taxes than it would have had a separate income tax
return  been  filed.  Deferred taxes are recorded  for  all  temporary
differences  between book and taxable income.  Investment tax  credits
are  deferred and amortized based upon the average useful life of  the
related  property in accordance with rate treatment.  As discussed  in
Note  3, in 1993 System Energy changed its accounting for income taxes
to conform with SFAS 109.

     In addition, System Energy files a consolidated Mississippi state
income tax return with certain other System companies.

Reacquired Debt

      The premiums and costs associated with reacquired debt are being
amortized  over the life of the related new issuances,  in  accordance
with ratemaking treatment.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      System  Energy  considers all unrestricted  highly  liquid  debt
instruments  purchased with an original maturity of  three  months  or
less to be cash equivalents.

Continued Application of SFAS 71

      As  a result of the EPAct and actions of regulatory commissions,
the  electric  utility  industry is moving  toward  a  combination  of
competition  and  a modified regulatory environment.  System  Energy's
financial  statements  currently reflect assets  and  costs  based  on
current cost-based ratemaking regulations, in accordance with SFAS 71,
"Accounting   for  the  Effects  of  Certain  Types  of   Regulation".
Continued  applicability  of  SFAS 71  to  System  Energy's  financial
statements  requires that rates set by an independent regulator  on  a
cost  of  service  basis (including a reasonable  rate  of  return  on
invested  capital)  can  actually be charged  to  and  collected  from
customers.

      In  the  event  that  either all or a  portion  of  a  utility's
operations cease to meet those criteria for various reasons, including
deregulation, a change in the method of regulation, or a change in the
competitive  environment  for the utility's  regulated  services,  the
utility  should  discontinue application of SFAS 71 for  the  relevant
portion.  That discontinuation should be reported by elimination  from
the  balance  sheet  of  the  effects of  any  actions  of  regulators
recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities.

      As of  December 31, 1994, and for the foreseeable future, System
Energy's financial statements continue to follow SFAS 71.

Fair Value Disclosure

      The  estimated  fair  value of financial  instruments  has  been
determined  by  System Energy, using available market information  and
appropriate  valuation methodologies.  However, considerable  judgment
is  required  in  developing the estimates of fair value.   Therefore,
estimates  are not necessarily indicative of the amounts  that  System
Energy could realize in a current market exchange.  In addition, gains
or losses realized on financial instruments may be reflected in future
rates and not accrue to the benefit of stockholders.

      System  Energy  considers  the  carrying  amounts  of  financial
instruments  classified  as current assets and  liabilities  to  be  a
reasonable estimate of their fair value because of the short  maturity
of  these  instruments.  In addition, System Energy does not presently
expect  that  performance  of  its obligations  will  be  required  in
connection  with certain off-balance sheet commitments and  guarantees
considered financial instruments.  Due to this factor, and because  of
the   related  party  nature  of  these  commitments  and  guarantees,
determination of fair value is not considered practicable.  See  Notes
5 and 7 for additional fair value disclosure.

     System Energy adopted the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for
Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January
1,  1994.   As  a  result,  at December 31, 1994,  System  Energy  has
recorded  on  the  balance  sheet  a  reduction  of  $1.5  million  in
decommissioning trust funds, representing the amount by which the fair
value  of  the  securities held in such funds  is  less  than  amounts
recovered in rates for decommissioning and deposited in the funds  and
the  related earnings on the amounts deposited.  Due to the regulatory
treatment  for decommissioning trust funds, System Energy recorded  an
offsetting amount in unrealized losses on investment securities  as  a
regulatory asset.


NOTE 2.   RATE AND REGULATORY MATTERS

FERC Settlement

      In  November 1994, FERC approved an agreement settling  a  long-
standing dispute involving income tax allocation procedures of  System
Energy.  In  accordance  with the agreement,  System  Energy  refunded
approximately $61.7 million to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI,  which  in
turn  have  made  or will make refunds or credits to  their  customers
(except  for those portions attributable to AP&L's and LP&L's retained
share of Grand Gulf 1 costs).  Additionally, System Energy will refund
a  total  of approximately $62 million, plus interest, to AP&L,  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI over the period through June 2004.   The  settlement
also required the write-off of certain related unamortized balances of
deferred  investment tax credits by AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.   The
settlement  reduced Entergy Corporation's consolidated net income  for
the  year  ended  December 31, 1994, by approximately  $68.2  million,
offset  by  the  write-off  of  the unamortized  balances  of  related
deferred  investment tax credits of approximately $69.4 million  ($2.9
million for Entergy Corporation; $27.3 million for AP&L; $31.5 million
for  LP&L;  $6  million for MP&L; and $1.7 million for NOPSI).  System
Energy  also reclassified from utility plant to other deferred  debits
approximately  $81  million of other Grand  Gulf  1  costs.   Although
excluded  from rate base, System Energy will be permitted  to  recover
such  costs over a 10-year period.  Interest on the $62 million refund
and  the loss of the return on the $81 million of other Grand  Gulf  1
costs  will  reduce  Entergy's  and  System  Energy's  net  income  by
approximately $10 million annually over the next 10 years.

     As a result of the charges associated with the settlement, System
Energy  obtained  the  consent  of  certain  banks  (parties  to   the
Reimbursement  Agreement)  to  waive  temporarily  the  fixed   charge
coverage covenant in the letters of credit and Reimbursement Agreement
related  to  the  Grand  Gulf 1 sale and leaseback  transaction  until
November 30, 1995.  System Energy expects that upon expiration of  the
waiver period, it will be in compliance with the fixed charge coverage
covenant.   Absent a waiver, System Energy's failure to  perform  this
covenant  could cause a draw under the letters of credit and/or  early
termination  of the letters of credit.  If the letters of credit  were
not  replaced  in a timely manner, a default or early  termination  of
System Energy's leases could result.

FERC Return on Equity Case

     In August 1992, FERC instituted an investigation of the return on
equity  (ROE)  component  of all formula wholesale  rates  for  System
Energy  as well as AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.  Payments received  by
System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are its only source
of  operating revenue.  Rates under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are
based  on System Energy's cost of service including a return on common
equity which had been set at 13% (see below).

      In  August 1993, Entergy and the state regulatory agencies  that
intervened   in  the  proceeding  reached  an  agreement   (Settlement
Agreement)  in  this  matter.   The Settlement  Agreement,  which  was
approved by FERC on October 25, 1993, provides that an 11.0% ROE  will
be included in the formula rates under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.
The  Unit Power Sales Agreement formula rate, including the 11.0%  ROE
component,  will remain in effect without change for two years,  until
early  August  1995.  System Energy's refunds payable to  AP&L,  LP&L,
MP&L,  and NOPSI, which were due prospectively from November 3,  1992,
were  reflected  as  a credit to their bills in October  1993.   These
refunds  decreased  System Energy's 1993 revenues and  net  income  by
approximately $29.4 million and $18.2 million, respectively.


NOTE 3.   INCOME TAXES


     Income tax expense consisted of the following:


      Total  income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying
the  statutory federal income tax rate to income or loss before taxes.
The reasons for the differences were:



        Significant  components  of System  Energy's  net  deferred  tax
liabilities, as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, were:

                                                       1994          1993
                                                          (In Thousands)
 Deferred tax liabilities:                                     
  Net regulatory assets                            $  (428,492)   $(425,318)
  Plant related basis differences                     (577,286)    (552,782)
  Other                                                (14,350)     (16,343)
                                                   -----------    ---------
     Total                                         $(1,020,128)   $(994,443)
                                                   ===========    =========  
           
                                                   
 Deferred tax assets:                                               
  Sale and leaseback                               $   145,731    $ 142,850
  FERC Settlement                                       23,098            -
  Accumulated deferred investment tax credit            42,298       43,547
  Alternative minimum tax credit                        38,179       20,452
  Recoverable income tax                                     -       92,689
  Adjustment to GG2 tax basis                           14,037            -
  Other                                                 10,283       11,964
                                                   -----------    --------- 
     Total                                         $   273,626    $ 311,502
                                                   ===========    =========  
           
     Net deferred tax liabilities                  $  (746,502)   $(682,941)
                                                   ===========    =========

      The  alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit at December  31,  1994
was $38.2 million  This AMT credit can be carried forward indefinitely
and  will reduce System Energy's federal income tax liability  in  the
future.

      In 1993, System Energy adopted SFAS 109.  SFAS 109 required that
deferred  income  taxes be recorded for all temporary differences  and
carryforwards, and that deferred tax balances be based on enacted  tax
laws at tax rates that are expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences  reverse.   SFAS 109 requires that  regulated  enterprises
recognize  adjustments  resulting from  implementation  as  regulatory
assets  or  liabilities if it is probable that such  amounts  will  be
recovered  from  or  returned  to  customers  in  future   rates.    A
substantial  majority  of the adjustments required  by  SFAS  109  was
recorded  to  deferred  tax  balance sheet  accounts  with  offsetting
adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities. As a result  of  the
adoption  of  SFAS 109, 1993 net income was reduced by  $0.4  million,
assets  were  increased  by  $327.9  million,  and  liabilities   were
increased by $327.5 million. The cumulative effect of the adoption  of
SFAS 109 is included in income tax expense charged to operations.

      In  connection with an Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  audit  of
Entergy's  1988,  1989,  and  1990  consolidated  federal  income  tax
returns, the IRS proposed that adjustments be made to the Grand Gulf 2
abandonment  loss  deduction  claimed on Entergy's  1989  consolidated
federal  income tax return.  The final agreement with the IRS required
Entergy  Corporation  to  pay  $4.3 million  in  connection  with  the
abandonment loss issue.

      In  August  1994,  Entergy received an IRS report  covering  the
federal  income tax audit of Entergy Corporation and subsidiaries  for
the  years  1988  -  1990.   The report asserts  an  $80  million  tax
deficiency  for  the  1990  consolidated federal  income  tax  returns
related  primarily  to the application of accelerated  investment  tax
credits  associated  with Waterford 3 and Grand Gulf  nuclear  plants.
Entergy believes there is no material tax deficiency and is vigorously
contesting the proposed assessment.


NOTE 4.   LINES OF CREDIT AND RELATED BORROWINGS

      The  SEC  has  authorized  System Energy  to  effect  short-term
borrowings  up to $125 million, which may be increased to as  much  as
$195  million  after  further  SEC approval.   This  authorization  is
effective  through November 30, 1996.  In addition, System Energy  can
borrow from the Money Pool, subject to its maximum authorized level of
short-term  borrowings and the availability of funds.   System  Energy
had  no  outstanding  borrowings under the Money Pool  arrangement  or
under bank lines of credit as of December 31, 1994.


NOTE 5.   LONG-TERM DEBT

      The long-term debt of System Energy as of December 31, 1994  and
1993, was as follows:

     Maturities       Interest Rates
    From   To        From      To                    1994        1993
                                                      (In Thousands)
   First Mortgage Bonds
     1995  1999       6.0%    10-1/2%             $475,000     $615,000
     2002             8-1/4%                        70,000      130,000
     2016             11-3/8%                       90,319       90,319

   Governmental Obligations*
     2013   2016      8-1/4%  12-1/2%              416,600      416,600
                                                             
   Grand Gulf Lease Obligation, 7.02% (Note 8)     500,000      500,000
   Unamortized Discount                             (8,614)     (10,005)
                                                ----------   ----------
      Total Long-Term Debt                       1,543,305    1,741,914
      Less Amount Due Within One Year              105,000      230,000
                                                ----------   ----------
       Long-Term Debt Excluding Amount Due      $1,438,305   $1,511,914
         Within One Year                        ==========   ==========

      *   Consists of pollution control bonds, certain series of which
          are secured by non-interest bearing first mortgage bonds.

     The fair value of System Energy's long-term debt, excluding Grand
Gulf lease obligation, as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, was estimated
to  be $1,091 million and $1,397.8 million, respectively.  Fair values
were  determined using bid prices reported by dealer  markets  and  by
nationally  recognized investment banking firms.  For the years  1995,
1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 System Energy has long-term debt maturities
and  sinking fund requirements (in millions) of $105, $250, $10,  $70,
and $70, respectively.


NOTE 6.   DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

      Various  agreements  relating to the long-term  debt  of  System
Energy  restrict the payment of cash dividends or other  distributions
on its common stock.  As of December 31, 1994, $41.7 million of System
Energy's retained earnings were restricted against the payment of cash
dividends or other distributions on common stock.


NOTE 7.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Capital Requirements and Financing

      Construction expenditures (excluding nuclear fuel) for the years
1995,  1996,  and  1997  are  estimated to total  $22  million,  $21.6
million,  and  $19.1 million, respectively.  System Energy  will  also
require  $365  million during the period 1995-1997 to  meet  long-term
debt  maturities.  System Energy plans to meet the above  requirements
with internally generated funds and cash on hand, supplemented by  the
issuance  of long-term debt.  See Note 5 for the possible issuance  of
new  first  mortgage  bonds and the potential  refunding,  redemption,
purchase, or other acquisition of certain series of outstanding  first
mortgage bonds.

Capital Funds Agreement

      Entergy  Corporation  has  agreed to  supply  to  System  Energy
sufficient  capital to (1) maintain System Energy's equity capital  at
an  amount  equal  to  a  minimum of 35% of its  total  capitalization
(excluding  short-term  debt),  and (2)  permit  the  continuation  of
commercial  operation  of  Grand  Gulf  1  and  to  pay  in  full  all
indebtedness  for borrowed money of System Energy when due  under  any
circumstances.   In addition, under supplements to the  Capital  Funds
Agreement  assigning System Energy's rights as security  for  specific
debt  of  System Energy, Entergy Corporation has agreed to  make  cash
capital contributions to enable System Energy to make payments on such
debt when due.

      System  Energy  has entered into various agreements  with  AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI,  whereby AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,  and  NOPSI  are
obligated  to  purchase  their  respective  entitlements  of  capacity
(discussed  below) and energy from System Energy's 90%  ownership  and
leasehold  interest  in  Grand Gulf 1,  and  to  make  payments  that,
together  with  other available funds, are adequate  to  cover  System
Energy's operating expenses.  System Energy would have to secure funds
from  other sources, including Entergy's obligations under the Capital
Funds  Agreement, to cover any shortfalls from payments received  from
AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI under these agreements.

Unit Power Sales Agreement

      System Energy has agreed to sell all of its 90% owned and leased
share  of  capacity and energy from Grand Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L,  MP&L,
and  NOPSI  in accordance with specified percentages (AP&L  36%,  LP&L
14%,  MP&L 33%, and NOPSI 17%) as ordered by FERC.  Charges under this
agreement are paid in consideration for the respective entitlements of
AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI to receive capacity and energy,  and  are
payable  irrespective of the quantity of energy delivered so  long  as
the  unit remains in commercial operation.  The agreement will  remain
in  effect until terminated by the parties and approved by FERC,  most
likely  upon  Grand  Gulf 1's retirement from  service.   The  monthly
obligation  for  payments from AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  to  System
Energy is approximately $49 million.

Availability Agreement

      AP&L,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI are individually obligated to  make
payments or subordinated advances to System Energy in accordance  with
stated   percentages  (AP&L  17.1%,  LP&L  26.9%,  MP&L   31.3%,   and
NOPSI 24.7%) in amounts that, when added to amounts received under the
Unit Power Sales Agreement or otherwise, are adequate to cover all  of
System  Energy's  operating expenses as defined, including  an  amount
sufficient to amortize Grand Gulf 2 over 27 years.  System  Energy has 
assigned its rights to payments  and  advances  to certain   creditors  
as  security  for  certain  obligations.    Since commercial operation 
of Grand Gulf 1, payments under the  Unit  Power Sales  Agreement have  
exceeded  the  amounts  payable   under   the Availability  Agreement.   
Accordingly, no  payments  have  ever  been required.

Reallocation Agreement

      System  Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI entered into  the
Reallocation  Agreement relating to the sale of  capacity  and  energy
from  the  Grand  Gulf Station and the related costs, in  which  LP&L,
MP&L,  and  NOPSI agreed to assume all of AP&L's responsibilities  and
obligations  with  respect  to  the  Grand  Gulf  Station  under   the
Availability Agreement. FERC's decision allocating a portion of  Grand
Gulf  1  capacity  and  energy  to AP&L  supersedes  the  Reallocation
Agreement as it relates to Grand Gulf 1.  Responsibility for any Grand
Gulf  2  amortization  amounts has been individually  allocated  (LP&L
26.23%,  MP&L  43.97%,  and  NOPSI 29.80%)  under  the  terms  of  the
Reallocation Agreement.  However, the Reallocation Agreement does  not
affect  AP&L's  obligation  to  System  Energy's  lenders  under   the
assignments  referred to in the preceding paragraph.   AP&L  would  be
liable  for  its share of such amounts if LP&L, MP&L, and  NOPSI  were
unable  to  meet  their contractual obligations.  No payments  of  any
amortization  amounts  will be required as long  as  amounts  paid  to
System  Energy  under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, including  other
funds  available to System Energy, exceed amounts required  under  the
Availability  Agreement, which is expected to  be  the  case  for  the
foreseeable future.

Reimbursement Agreement

      In  December  1988,  System  Energy entered  into  two  entirely
separate, but identical, arrangements for the sales and leasebacks  of
an approximate aggregate 11.5% ownership interest in Grand Gulf 1 (see
Note  8).   In  connection with the equity funding  of  the  sale  and
leaseback  arrangements,  letters  of  credit  are  required   to   be
maintained  to secure certain amounts payable for the benefit  of  the
equity  investors  by  System Energy under the  leases.   The  current
letters of credit are effective until January 15, 1997.

      Under the provisions of the Reimbursement Agreement, as amended,
related to the letters of credit, System Energy has agreed to a number
of covenants relating to the maintenance of certain capitalization and
fixed  charge coverage ratios.  System Energy agreed, during the  term
of  the  Reimbursement Agreement, to maintain its equity at  not  less
than   33%  of  its  adjusted  capitalization  (as  defined   in   the
Reimbursement  Agreement to include certain amounts  not  included  in
capitalization for financial statement purposes).  In addition, System
Energy  must maintain, with respect to each fiscal quarter during  the
term of the Reimbursement Agreement, a ratio of adjusted net income to
interest  expense  (calculated, in each  case,  as  specified  in  the
Reimbursement Agreement) of at least 1.60.  As of December  31,  1994,
System   Energy's   equity  approximated  34.25%   of   its   adjusted
capitalization, and its fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.23.

     As a result of the charges associated with an agreement with FERC
settling  a  long-standing  dispute involving  income  tax  allocation
procedures,  System Energy has obtained the consent of  certain  banks
(parties  to  the  Reimbursement Agreement) to waive  temporarily  the
fixed   charge  coverage  covenant  in  the  letters  of  credit   and
Reimbursement  Agreement, until November 30, 1995.  (See  Note  2  for
information on the FERC Settlement.)  System Energy expects that  upon
expiration  of  the waiver period, it will be in compliance  with  the
fixed  charge  coverage  covenant.  Absent a waiver,  System  Energy's
failure  to perform this covenant could cause a draw under the letters
of  credit and/or early termination of the letters of credit.  If  the
letters  of credit were not replaced in a timely manner, a default  or
early termination of System Energy's leases could result.  Draws under
the  letters of credit must be repaid by System Energy within  5  days
(or in some cases, 90 days) following the date of the drawing.

Nuclear Insurance

      The  Price-Anderson  Act limits public liability  for  a  single
nuclear  incident to approximately $8.92 billion as  of  December  31,
1994.   System  Energy  has protection for this  liability  through  a
combination  of  private insurance (currently  $200  million)  and  an
industry  assessment  program.   Under  the  assessment  program,  the
maximum amount that would be required for each nuclear incident  would
be  $79.3  million per reactor, payable at a rate of $10  million  per
licensed  reactor  per incident per year.  As a co-licensee  of  Grand
Gulf  1  with System Energy, SMEPA would share 10% of this obligation.
System  Energy  has one licensed reactor.  In addition, System  Energy
participates  in  a private insurance program which provides  coverage
for  worker  tort claims filed for bodily injury caused  by  radiation
exposure.  System Energy's maximum assessment under the program is  an
aggregate  of  approximately $3.2 million in the event  losses  exceed
accumulated reserve funds.

      System  Energy  on behalf of itself and other insured  interests
(including  other  co-owners of Grand Gulf 1) is a member  of  certain
insurance   programs  that  provide  coverage  for  property   damage,
including  decontamination and premature decommissioning expense.   As
of December 31, 1994, System Energy was insured against such losses up
to  $2.75 billion with $250 million of this amount designated to cover
any  shortfall in the NRC required decommission trust funding.   Under
the property damage insurance programs, System Energy could be subject
to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the
insurers.   As  of  December  31, 1994, the  maximum  amount  of  such
possible  assessments to System Energy was $29.7 million.   Under  its
agreement  with  System Energy, SMEPA would share in  System  Energy's
obligation.

      The  amount  of property insurance presently carried  by  System
Energy  exceeds the NRC's minimum requirement for nuclear power  plant
licensees of $1.06 billion per site.  NRC regulations provide that the
proceeds  of this insurance must be used, first, to place and maintain
the  reactor  in a safe and stable condition and, second, to  complete
decontamination  operations.  Only after proceeds  are  dedicated  for
such  use  and  regulatory approval is secured,  would  any  remaining
proceeds  be made available for the benefit of plant owners  or  their
creditors.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Costs

      System  Energy provides for estimated future disposal costs  for
spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act  of
1982.  System Energy entered into a contract with the DOE, whereby the
DOE  will furnish disposal service at a cost of one mill per  net  KWH
generated  and sold.  The fees payable to the DOE may be  adjusted  in
the future to assure full recovery.  System Energy considers all costs
incurred or to be incurred for the disposal of spent nuclear  fuel  to
be  proper components of nuclear fuel expense and recovers such  costs
in rates.

      Delays have occurred in the DOE's program for the acceptance and
disposal  of  spent  nuclear  fuel at a  permanent  repository.  In  a
statement  released February 17, 1993, the DOE asserted that  it  does
not  have  a legal obligation to accept spent nuclear fuel without  an
operational  repository for which it has not yet arranged.   Currently
the  DOE  projects it will begin to accept spent fuel no earlier  than
2010.   In  the meantime, System Energy is responsible for spent  fuel
storage.   Current on-site spent fuel pool storage capacity  at  Grand
Gulf  1  is estimated to be sufficient until 2004.  Thereafter, System
Energy will provide additional storage capacity at an initial cost  of
$5  million  to  $10 million.  In addition, approximately  $3 million  
to  $5 million will be required every four  to  five years  subsequent 
to 2004 until the DOE's repository begins  accepting Grand Gulf 1's 
spent fuel.

      Entergy  Operations and System Fuels joined in lawsuits  against
the  DOE, seeking clarification of the DOE's responsibility to receive
spent nuclear fuel beginning in 1998.  The original suits, filed  June
20, 1994, asked for a ruling stating that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act
require  the DOE to begin taking title to the spent fuel and to  start
removing it from nuclear power plants in 1998, a mandate for the DOE's
nuclear  waste management program to begin accepting fuel in 1998  and
court  monitoring  of  the program, and the potential  for  escrow  of
payments to the Nuclear Waste Fund instead of directly to the DOE.

      Decommissioning  costs  were  estimated  to  approximate  $248.7
million in 1989 dollars for System Energy's 90% interest in Grand Gulf
1, based on a 1989 decommissioning cost study. However, as a result of
the  FERC  Complaint Case settlement, the amount to  be  collected  in
rates  for  the  total  cost of decommissioning  System  Energy's  90%
interest  in  Grand Gulf 1 was set at approximately $198  million  (in
1989  dollars). System Energy completed an updated cost study in  1994
which  reflected  a decommissioning cost of $365.9  million  (in  1993
dollars)  for  System  Energy's 90% interest. A filing  with  FERC  to
request   the  updated  decommissioning  costs  in  rates   is   under
consideration  by System Energy. The amounts recovered  in  rates  are
deposited  in external trust funds and reported at market value.   The
accumulated decommissioning liability of $31.9 million as of  December
31,   1994,   has   been   recorded   in   other   deferred   credits.
Decommissioning expense in the amount of $5.2 million was recorded  in
1994.  The  actual decommissioning costs may vary from  the  estimates
because  of  regulatory  requirements,  changes  in  technology,   and
increased  costs  of  labor,  materials,  and  equipment.   Management
believes  that actual decommissioning costs are likely  to  be  higher
than the amounts presented above.

      The  staff  of  the SEC has questioned certain  of  the  current
accounting  practices of the electric utility industry, regarding  the
recognition, measurement, and classification of decommissioning  costs
for  nuclear  generating  stations  in  the  financial  statements  of
electric  utilities.   In  response to these questions,  the  FASB  is
currently  reviewing the accounting for decommissioning.   If  current
electric    utility   industry   accounting   practices    for    such
decommissioning  are  changed, annual provisions  for  decommissioning
could  increase,  the  estimated cost  for  decommissioning  could  be
recorded  as a liability rather than as accumulated depreciation,  and
trust  fund income from the external decommissioning trusts  could  be
reported   as  investment  income  rather  than  as  a  reduction   to
decommissioning expense.

      The  EPAct  has  a  provision  that  assesses  domestic  nuclear
utilities  with  fees for the decontamination and  decommissioning  of
DOE's  past  uranium  enrichment operations.  The decontamination  and
decommissioning  provisions will be used to set up a fund  into  which
contributions  from  utilities  and the  federal  government  will  be
placed.   System  Energy's annual assessment, which will  be  adjusted
annually  for  inflation,  is  approximately  $1.4  million  (in  1995
dollars)  for  approximately 15 years.  FERC requires  that  utilities
treat  these assessments as costs of fuel as they are amortized.   The
cumulative  liability  of $15.8 million as of December  31,  1994,  is
recorded   in   other   current  liabilities  and  other   non-current
liabilities,  according  to FERC guidelines,  and  is  offset  in  the
financial statements by a regulatory asset.

System Fuels

      System  Fuels entered into a revolving credit agreement  with  a
bank  that provides $45 million in borrowings to finance System Fuels'
nuclear materials and services inventory.  Should System Fuels default
on  its obligations under its credit agreement, AP&L, LP&L, and System
Energy  have  agreed  to purchase the nuclear materials  and  services
financed under the agreement.


NOTE 8.   LEASES

Nuclear Fuel Lease

      System  Energy has an arrangement to lease nuclear  fuel  in  an
aggregate  amount  up  to  $105  million.   The  lessor  finances  its
acquisition  of  nuclear  fuel through  a  credit  agreement  and  the
issuance  of  notes.  The credit agreement which was entered  into  in
1989  has  been extended to February 1998 and the notes  have  varying
remaining maturities of up to 3 years.  It is expected that the credit
arrangements will be extended or alternative financing will be secured
by  the lessor upon the maturity of the current arrangements.  If  the
lessor  cannot arrange for alternative financing upon maturity of  its
borrowings,  System Energy must purchase nuclear  fuel  in  an  amount
sufficient to enable the lessor to retire such borrowings.

     Lease payments are based on nuclear fuel use.  Nuclear fuel lease
expense  of $37.8 million, $36.2 million, and $48.4 million (including
interest of $6.8 million, $5.1 million, and $8.5 million) was  charged
to operations in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

Sale and Leaseback Transactions

      On  December  28, 1988, System Energy entered into two  entirely
separate, but identical, arrangements for the sales and leasebacks  of
an  approximate aggregate 11.5% undivided ownership interest in  Grand
Gulf  1  for an aggregate cash consideration of $500 million.   System
Energy  is  leasing back the undivided interest on a net  lease  basis
over  a  26  1/2-year basic lease term.  System Energy has options  to
terminate the leases and to repurchase the undivided interest in Grand
Gulf 1 at certain intervals during the basic lease term.  Further,  at
the  end of the basic lease term, System Energy has an option to renew
the  leases or to repurchase the undivided interest in Grand  Gulf  1.
See Note 7 with respect to certain other terms of the transactions.

     On January 18, 1994, System Energy refinanced the debt portion of
the sale and leaseback arrangements of the undivided portions of Grand
Gulf  1.   The  secured lease obligation bonds of $356 million,  7.43%
series  due  2011,  and $79 million, 8.2% series  due  2014,  will  be
indirectly  secured by liens on, and a security interest  in,  certain
ownership  interests and the respective leases relating to Grand  Gulf
1.   See  Note  7  for information on letters of credit maintained  by
System  Energy  for  the  benefit  of  the  equity  investors  in  the
transactions.

      In  accordance  with SFAS  98, "Accounting for Leases,"  due  to
"continuing  involvement" by System Energy,  the  sale  and  leaseback
arrangements  of the undivided portions of Grand Gulf 1, as  described
above,  are required to be reflected for financial reporting  purposes
as  financing  transactions in System Energy's  financial  statements.
The  amounts  charged  to  expense for  financial  reporting  purposes
include the interest portion of the lease obligations and depreciation
of the plant.  However, operating revenues include the recovery of the
lease payments because the transactions are accounted for as sales and
leasebacks  for  rate-making purposes.   The  total  of  interest  and
depreciation  expense  exceeds  the  corresponding  revenues  realized
during  the  early  part  of  the  lease  term.   Consistent  with   a
recommendation  contained  in  a  FERC  audit  report,  System  Energy
recorded  as  a deferred asset the difference between the recovery  of
the   lease  payments  and  the  amounts  expensed  for  interest  and
depreciation and is recording such difference as a deferred  asset  on
an ongoing basis.  The amount of this deferred asset was $78.5 million
and $71.2 million as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  See
Note  1 for further information regarding the accounting for the  sale
and leaseback transactions.

      As  of December 31, 1994, System Energy had future minimum lease
payments  (reflecting  an  implicit rate  of  7.02%  after  the  above
refinancing) as follows (in thousands):

       1995                                     $   42,464
       1996                                         42,753
       1997                                         42,753
       1998                                         42,753
       1999                                         42,753
       Years thereafter                            802,820
                                                ----------
         Total                                  $1,016,296
                                                ==========


NOTE 9.   POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

      System  Energy  participates in a defined benefit  pension  plan
sponsored  by  Entergy.  Effective June 1990, all of  System  Energy's
employees  became  employees  of  Entergy  Operations.   However,  the
employees still remain under System Energy's plan and no transfers  of
related  pension liabilities and assets have been made.   The  pension
plan,   which   covers  substantially  all  of   its   employees,   is
noncontributory  and  provides pension benefits  based  on  employees'
credited  service and average compensation, generally during the  last
five  years before retirement.  System Energy funds pension  costs  in
accordance  with contribution guidelines established by  the  Employee
Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the  Internal
Revenue  Code  of  1986, as amended.  The assets of the  plan  consist
primarily  of  common and preferred stocks, fixed  income  securities,
interest in a money market fund, and insurance contracts.

      System  Energy's  1994, 1993, and 1992 pension  cost,  including
amounts capitalized, included the following components:

      
      The  funded  status  of  System  Energy's  pension  plan  as  of
December 31, 1994 and 1993, was:
      
      
      The  significant  actuarial assumptions used  in  computing  the
information above for 1994, 1993, and 1992, were as follows:  weighted
average  discount rate, 8.5% for 1994,  7.5% for 1993  and  8.25%  for
1992; weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels,
5.1%  for 1994 and 5.6% for 1993 and 1992; and expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets, 8.5%.  Transition assets are being amortized
over the average remaining service period of active participants.


NOTE 10.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

     System Energy sells all of the capacity and energy from its share
of  Grand  Gulf 1 to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI under rate  schedules
approved  by  FERC.   Accordingly, all of  System  Energy's  operating
revenues consist of billings to AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.

     MP&L provides a minimal amount of technical and advisory services
and  other  miscellaneous  services to System  Energy.   In  addition,
pursuant to a service agreement, System Energy receives technical  and
advisory  services  from  Entergy Services.   Charges  from  MP&L  and
Entergy  Services  for technical, advisory and miscellaneous  services
amounted  to  approximately $10.5 million in 1994,  $12.3  million  in
1993,  and  $13.8  million in 1992.  System Energy  pays  directly  or
reimburses Entergy Operations for the costs associated with  operating
Grand  Gulf 1 (excluding nuclear fuel) which were approximately $179.6
million in 1994, $151.3 million in 1993, and $179 million in 1992.

       In  addition,  certain  materials  and  services  required  for
fabrication of nuclear fuel are acquired and financed by System  Fuels
and then sold to System Energy as needed.  Charges for these materials
and  services, which represent additions to nuclear fuel, amounted  to
approximately $27.8 million in 1994, $32.8 million in 1993, and  $13.7
million in 1992.


NOTE 11.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     Operating results for the four quarters of 1994 and 1993 were:

                            Operating   Operating        Net
                             Revenue   Income (Loss)  Income (Loss)
                                      (In Thousands)

     1994:                                            
       First Quarter         $147,847     $ 64,342     $ 21,549
       Second Quarter        $151,219     $ 65,779     $ 25,212
       Third Quarter         $150,949     $ 65,869     $ 24,934
       Fourth Quarter        $ 24,948     $(24,223)    $(66,288)
     1993:                                            
       First Quarter         $164,630     $ 76,331     $ 31,782
       Second Quarter        $153,527     $ 65,539     $ 21,268
       Third Quarter         $155,071     $ 63,992     $ 23,040
       Fourth Quarter        $177,540     $ 66,340     $ 17,837


     See Note 2 for information regarding the recording of refunds  in
     connection with the FERC Settlement in November 1994.
     
     See Note 2 for information regarding the recording of refunds  as
     a  result of the FERC Return on Equity Case settlement in the third
     quarter of 1993.







Item  9.   Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting
and Financial Disclosure.

      No  event that would be described in response to this  item  has
occurred  with  respect to Entergy, System Energy,  AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,
MP&L, or NOPSI.


                               PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants.

      All  officers  and  directors listed below  held  the  specified
positions  with  their respective companies as of the date  of  filing
this report.

ENTERGY CORPORATION

Directors

     Information required by this item concerning directors of Entergy
Corporation  is  set forth under the heading "Election  of  Directors"
contained in the Proxy Statement of Entergy Corporation to be filed in
connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held  May 26,
1995, and is incorporated herein by reference.



(a) Mr.  Lupberger  is  a  director  of  First  Commerce  Corporation,  
    New  Orleans,  LA, International  Shipholding Corporation, New Orleans, 
    LA, and First  National  Bank  of Commerce, New Orleans, LA.
    
(b) Mr.  Bemis  is a director of Deposit Guaranty National Bank, Jackson, 
    MS  and  Deposit Guaranty Corporation, Jackson, MS.
    
(c) Mr.  Alexander is a director of First National Bank of Cleburne County, 
    Heber Springs, AR.
    
(d) Mr.  Meiners  is  a  director of Trustmark National Bank, Jackson, MS,  
    and  Trustmark Corporation, Jackson, MS.
    

    Each  director and officer of the applicable System  company  is
elected  yearly to serve until the first Board Meeting  following  the
Annual  Meeting of Stockholders and until a successor is  elected  and
qualified.   Annual  meetings are currently expected  to  be  held  as
follows:

     Entergy Corporation - May 26, 1995
     AP&L - May 17, 1995
     GSU - May 17, 1995
     LP&L - May 17, 1995
     MP&L - May 17, 1995
     NOPSI - May 17, 1995
     System Energy - April 14, 1995

      Directorships  shown  above are generally  limited  to  entities
subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange  Act  of
1934 or to the Investment Company Act of 1940.

      Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section
17(a)  of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 require  each
registrant's officers, directors and persons who own more than 10%  of
a  registered  class  of such registrant's equity securities  to  file
reports   of  ownership  and  changes  in  ownership  concerning   the
securities  of Entergy Corporation and its subsidiaries with  the  SEC
and  to  furnish Entergy Corporation with copies of all Section  16(a)
and  17(a)  forms  they file.  Shortly following the  Merger,  certain
individuals were elected as officers of GSU.  Although none  of  these
individuals  owned  any reportable securities of  GSU,  their  initial
Forms  3  for GSU were not timely filed.  These officers of GSU  were:
Michael B. Bemis, Frank F. Gallaher, Glenn E. Harder, Donald C. Hintz,
Jerry D. Jackson, Richard J. Landy, Edwin Lupberger, Jerry L. Maulden,
Gerald  D.  McInvale,  Michael R. Niggli, and  Lee  W.  Randall.  Four
individuals  considered officers of the Corporation  for  purposes  of
Section 16 failed to report on their 1993 Forms 5 their receipt during
1993 of certain restricted shares of the Corporation's stock under the
Equity   Ownership  Plan.   These  individuals  and  their  respective
unreported  shares  were:  S.M. Henry Brown, 4,000  shares;  Frank  F.
Gallaher,  4,000  shares; Charles L. Kelly, 4,000  shares,  and  Edwin
Lupberger,  5,000 shares.  Glenn E. Harder, a former  officer  of  the
Corporation, failed to timely report on a Form 4 the sale  in  October
1994 of 15 shares of the Corporation's stock which he had held in  the
Corporation's  dividend  reinvestment  plan.   Each   of   the   above
transactions has now been correctly reported.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation


                          ENTERGY CORPORATION
                                   
      Information called for by this item concerning the directors and
officers of Entergy Corporation and the Personnel Committee of Entergy
Corporation's  Board  of  Directors is set forth  under  the  headings
"Executive  Compensation"  and  "Personnel  Committee  Interlocks  and
Insider  Participation" contained in the Proxy  Statement  of  Entergy
Corporation  to  be  filed in connection with its  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders  to  be  held  on  May  26, 1995,  which  information  is
incorporated herein by reference.

            AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, AND SYSTEM ENERGY
                             
                    Summary Compensation Tables
                                   
     The following tables include the Chief Executive Officers and the
four other most highly compensated executive officers in office as  of
December 31, 1994 at AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System  Energy.
This  determination was based on total annual base salary and  bonuses
(excluding  bonuses of an extraordinary and nonrecurring nature)  from
all  System sources earned by each officer during the year 1994.   See
Item  10,  "Directors  and  Executive Officers  of  the  Registrants",
incorporated  herein by reference, for information  on  the  principal
positions of the executive officers named in the table below.

AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Entergy

      As  shown  in Item 10, most executive officers named  below  are
employed   by   several  System  companies.   Because  it   would   be
impracticable  to allocate such officers' salaries among  the  various
companies, the table below includes aggregate compensation paid by all
System companies.



 *   Chief Executive Officer of System Energy.

**   Chief Executive Officer of AP&L, GSU,  LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI.

(a)  Includes bonuses earned pursuant to the Annual Incentive Plan  as
     well as any bonuses of an extraordinary or nonrecurring nature.

(b)  Amounts include the value of restricted shares that vested  under
     Entergy's Equity Ownership Plan.

(c)  Includes the following:

          (1)  1994 Executive Medical Plan premiums of $1,761 for each
          of the above-named executives in 1994.

          (2)  1994 employer contributions to the Defined Contribution
          Restoration  Plan as follows: Mr. Bemis $4,096;   Mr.  Hintz
          $5,210;   Mr.  Jackson $5,134;  Mr. Lupberger $15,946;   Mr.
          Maulden $8,359; Mr. McInvale $2,775;  Mr. Randall $810.

          (3)   1994 employer contributions to the System Savings Plan
          as  follows: Mr. Bemis $4,500; Mr. Blount $3,455; Mr.  Hintz
          $4,500;   Mr.  Jackson $4,500;  Mr. Lupberger  $4,500;   Mr.
          Maulden $4,500;  Mr. McInvale  $4,500;  Mr. Randall  $4,500.

          (4)   1994  reimbursements  under  the  Executive  Financial
          Counseling  Program as follows: Mr. Bemis       $2,725;  Mr.
          Hintz  $785;  Mr. Jackson $1,175; Mr. Lupberger $2,623;  Mr.
          Maulden $1,350; Mr. McInvale  $645.

          (5)   1994  payments  for  personal use  under  the  Private
          Ownership  Vehicle  Plan as follows: Mr. Bemis  $9,900;  Mr.
          Blount $7,200;  Mr. Hintz $10,800; Mr. Jackson $10,800;  Mr.
          Lupberger $4,627;  Mr. Maulden $9,720; Mr. McInvale  $9,900;
          Mr. Randall  $7,200.

(d)  Restricted  stock  awarded  under the Equity  Ownership  Plan  is
     subject  to performance based criteria.  Restricted stock  awards
     in  1994 are reported under the "Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards"
     table, and reference is made to this table for information on the
     aggregate number of restricted shares awarded during 1994 and the
     vesting  schedule for such shares.   At December  31,  1994,  the
     number and value of the aggregate restricted stock holdings  were
     as follows: Mr. Bemis: 12,750 shares, $278,907; Mr. Hintz: 17,568
     shares,  $384,300;   Mr. Jackson: 18,000 shares,  $393,750;   Mr.
     Lupberger: 33,950 shares, $742,657;  Mr. Maulden: 18,000  shares,
     $393,750;  and Mr. McInvale: 12,750 shares, $278,907. Accumulated
     dividends are paid on restricted stock when vested.  The value of
     stock  for  which  restrictions were  lifted  in  1994,  and  the
     applicable portion of accumulated cash dividends, are reported in
     the  LTIP  Payouts  column  in the above  table.   The  value  of
     restricted stock awards as of December 31, 1994 are determined by
     multiplying  the total number of shares awarded  by  the  closing
     market price of Entergy Corporation common stock on the New  York
     Stock  Exchange  Composite  Transactions  on  December  31,  1994
     ($21.875 per share).

                         Option Grants in 1994
                                   
                                   
      The following table summarizes option grants during 1994 to  the
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table above.  The
absence,  in the table below, of any named officer indicates  that  no
options were granted to such officer.

AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Entergy



(a)  Options were granted on January 27, 1994, pursuant to the  Equity
     Ownership Plan. All options granted on this date have an exercise
     price  equal  to the closing price of Entergy Corporation  common
     stock  on  the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions  on
     January   27,   1994.   These  options  became   exercisable   on
     July 28, 1994.

 (b) Calculation  based  on  the stock option exercise  price  over  a
     ten-year period assuming annual compounding. The columns  present
     estimates  of  potential  values  based  on  simple  mathematical
     assumptions.  The actual value, if any, an executive officer  may
     realize is dependent upon the market price on the date of  option
     exercise.


                Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in 1994


AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy

      The  following table summarizes awards of restricted  shares  of
Entergy  Corporation common stock under the Equity Ownership  Plan  in
1994 to the executive officers of these companies named in the Summary
Compensation  Table above.  The absence, in the table  below,  of  any
named officer indicates that no restricted shares were awarded to such
officer in 1994.


                                                Estimated Future Payouts Under
                               Performance    Non-Stock Price-Based Plans(a) (b)
                    Number     Period Until                           
                      of        Maturation                            
        Name        Shares       or Payout       Threshold  Target   Maximum
                                                        
Michael B. Bemis    11,250   01/01/94-12/31/96     3,750     7,500    11,250
Donald C. Hintz     15,000   01/01/94-12/31/96     5,000    10,000    15,000
Jerry D. Jackson    15,000   01/01/94-12/31/96     5,000    10,000    15,000
Edwin Lupberger     25,200   01/01/94-12/31/96     8,400    16,800    25,200
Jerry L. Maulden    15,000   01/01/94-12/31/96     5,000    10,000    15,000
Gerald D. McInvale  11,250   01/01/94-12/31/96     3,750     7,500    11,250


(a)  Restricted  shares awarded will vest at the end of  a  three-year
     period,  subject to the attainment of approved performance  goals
     for  the  participants.  Restrictions are lifted based  upon  the
     achievement  of  the  cumulative result of these  goals  for  the
     performance  period.  The value an executive officer may  realize
     is  dependent  upon both the number of shares that vest  and  the
     future market price of Entergy Corporation common stock.

(b)  The  Threshold,  Target  and Maximum  levels  correspond  to  the
     achievement  of  50%,  100%, and 150%,  respectively,  of  Equity
     Ownership  Plan  goals.  Achievement  of a Threshold,  Target  or
     Maximum  level would result in the award of the number of  shares
     indicated  in  the  respective column.  Achievement  of  a  level
     between these three specified levels would result in the award of
     a number of shares calculated by means of interpolation.

                          Pension Plan Tables


AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy

                            Retirement Income Plan Table
                                   
   Annual                                                      
   Covered                   Years of Service                                  
Compensation      15          20           25          30             35
  $100,000    $ 22,500    $ 30,000     $ 37,500    $ 45,000       $ 52,000
   200,000      45,500      60,000       75,000      90,000        105,000
   300,000      67,500      90,000      112,500     135,000        157,500
   400,000      90,000     120,000      150,000     180,000        210,000
   500,000     112,500     150,000      187,500     225,000        262,500
   850,000     191,250     255,000      318,750     382,500        446,250
                                                                           

     AP&L, GSU (non-bargaining unit employees), LP&L, MP&L, and System
Energy  each  individually sponsors or participates  in  a  Retirement
Income  Plan  (a  defined benefit plan) that provides  a  benefit  for
employees  at retirement from the System based upon (1) generally  all
years  of  service  beginning at age 21 through  termination,  with  a
forty-year maximum, times (2) 1.5% for each year of service, times (3)
the final average compensation. Final average compensation is based on
the  highest 60 months of covered compensation in the last 120  months
of  service.   The normal form of benefit for a single employee  is  a
lifetime  annuity  and  for a married employee  is  a  50%  joint  and
survivor  annuity.  Other actuarially equivalent options are available
to each retiree.  Retirement benefits are not subject to any deduction
for  Social Security or other offset amounts. NOPSI is a participating
employer  in  LP&L's  Retirement Income  Plan.   System  Energy  is  a
participating  employer  in the Retirement Income  Plan  sponsored  by
Entergy  Corporation.   Prior to October 1,  1994,   GSU  sponsored  a
defined  benefit pension plan for non-bargaining unit  employees  with
different  provisions  from  the  other  System  Companies.   However,
effective  October  1, 1994, GSU amended this plan for  non-bargaining
unit  employees  to  be  consistent with the other  System  companies.
Bargaining unit employees for GSU are covered by the provisions of the
pre-merger GSU defined benefit plan. The amount of the named executive
officers'  annual compensation covered by the plan as of December  31,
1994  is  represented  by  the  base  salary  column  in  the  Summary
Compensation Table of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy.

      The maximum benefit under each Retirement Income Plan is limited
by  Sections 401 and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code; however,  AP&L,
GSU,  LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy have elected to participate
in  the  Pension  Equalization Plan sponsored by Entergy  Corporation.
Under  this  plan, certain executives, including the  named  executive
officers,  would receive an amount equal to the benefit payable  under
the  Retirement Income Plans, without regard to the limitations,  less
the amount actually payable under the Retirement Income Plans.

      Each  Retirement Income Plan (except GSU) was amended  effective
February 1, 1991 to provide a minimum accrued benefit as of that  date
to  any  employee  who was vested as of that date.   For  purposes  of
calculating  such minimum accrued benefit, each eligible employee  was
deemed to have had an additional five years of service and age  as  of
that  date.   The  additional  years  of  age  did  not  count  toward
eligibility for early retirement, but served only to reduce the  early
retirement discount factor for those employees who were at  least  age
50  as of that date.   Effective January 1, 1995, the System companies
Retirement  Income Plans were amended to transfer assets  and  related
liabilities  to a single Entergy Corporation Retirement Plan  for  all
non-bargaining unit employees.

      The  credited years of service under the Retirement Income  Plan
(without  giving  effect  to  the five  additional  years  of  service
credited  pursuant  to  the February 1, 1991  amendment  as  discussed
above)  as  of December 31, 1994 for the following executive  officers
named  in  the  Summary Compensation Table of AP&L, GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,
NOPSI,  and  System  Energy  were:  Mr.  Bemis  12;  Mr.  Blount   10;
Mr. Maulden 29; and Mr. Randall 15.

      The  credited  years of service under the respective  Retirement
Income  Plans,  as amended, as of December 31, 1994 for the  following
executive  officers  named  in the Summary Compensation  Table,  as  a
result  of entering into supplemental retirement agreements,  were  as
follows:  Mr.  Hintz  23;  Mr.  Jackson  15;  Mr.  Lupberger  31;  and
Mr. McInvale 22.

      In addition to the Retirement Income Plan discussed above, AP&L,
LP&L,  MP&L,  NOPSI, and System Energy participate in the Supplemental
Retirement Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (SRP) and  the
Post-Retirement  Plan of Entergy Corporation and  Subsidiaries  (PRP).
Participation  is  limited to one of these two plans  and  is  at  the
invitation  of  AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L, NOPSI,  and  System  Energy.   The
participant may receive from the appropriate System company a  monthly
benefit payment not in excess of .025 (under the SRP) or .0333  (under
the  PRP)  times  the participant's average basic  annual  salary  (as
defined  in  the plans) for a maximum of 120 months.   Mr.  Hintz  has
entered  into  a  SRP participation contract, and  all  of  the  other
executive officers of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy named
in   the  Summary  Compensation  Table  (except  for  Mr.  Blount  and
Mr. McInvale) have entered into PRP participation contracts.


               System Executive Retirement Plan Table (1)
                                   
     Annual                                                 
    Covered                      Years of Service
  Compensation      15           20            25           30+
  $  200,000    $ 90,000     $100,000      $110,000     $120,000
     300,000     135,000      150,000       165,000      180,000
     400,000     180,000      200,000       220,000      240,000
     500,000     225,000      250,000       275,000      300,000
     600,000     270,000      300,000       330,000      360,000
     700,000     315,000      350,000       385,000      420,000
   1,000,000     450,000      500,000       550,000      600,000
                                                                    
___________

(1)  Benefits  shown are based on a target replacement  ratio  of  50%
based  on  the years of service and covered compensation  shown.   The
benefits  for 10, 15, and 20 or more years of service at the  45%  and
55% replacement levels would decrease (in the case of 45%) or increase
(in  the  case of 55%) by the following percentages:  3.0%, 4.5%,  and
5.0%, respectively.

      In  1993,  Entergy  Corporation  adopted  the  System  Executive
Retirement  Plan  (SERP).  AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L,  NOPSI,  and  System
Energy  are  participating employers in the  SERP.   The  SERP  is  an
unfunded defined benefit plan offered at retirement to certain  senior
executives,  which would currently include all the executive  officers
(except  for  Mr. Blount) named in the Summary Compensation  Table  of
AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,  NOPSI, and  System  Energy.   Participating
executives choose, at retirement, between the retirement benefits paid
under  provisions  of  the SERP or those payable under  the  executive
retirement benefit plans discussed above.  Covered pay under the  SERP
includes final annual base salary (see the Summary Compensation  Table
of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy for the base salary
covered by the SERP as of December 31, 1994) plus the Target Incentive
Award  (i.e.,  a  percentage  of final annual  base  salary)  for  the
participant in effect at retirement. Benefits paid under the SERP  are
calculated by multiplying the covered pay times target pay replacement
ratios (45%, 50%, or 55%, dependent on job rating at retirement)  that
are  attained,  according  to plan design, at  20  years  of  credited
service.   The  target ratios are increased by 1%  for  each  year  of
service  over  20 years, up to a maximum of 30 years of  service.   In
accordance  with the SERP formula, the target ratios are  reduced  for
each  year  of service below 20 years.  The credited years of  service
under  this  plan  are  identical to the years of  service  for  named
executive  officers  (other  than  Mr.  Bemis,  Mr.  Jackson  and  Mr.
McInvale)  disclosed  above  in  the "Pension  Plan  Tables-Retirement
Income  Plan Table" section.  Mr. Bemis, Mr. Jackson and Mr.  McInvale
have  22  years,  21  years  and 13 years, respectively,  of  credited
service under this plan.

      The  normal form of benefit for a single employee is a  lifetime
annuity  and  for  a  married employee is a  50%  joint  and  survivor
annuity.   All  SERP  payments are guaranteed for  ten  years.   Other
actuarially  equivalent options are available to each  retiree.   SERP
benefits are offset by any and all defined benefit plan payments  from
the  company and from prior employers.  SERP benefits are not  subject
to Social Security offsets.

      Eligibility  for  and  receipt of  benefits  under  any  of  the
executive  plans described above are contingent upon several  factors.
The  participant must agree that, without the specific consent of  the
System  company for which such participant was last employed,  he  may
take  no  employment  after retirement with  any  entity  that  is  in
competition  with,  or similar in nature to, AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L,  MP&L,
NOPSI,  and  System Energy or any affiliate thereof.  Eligibility  for
benefits is forfeitable for various reasons, including violation of an
agreement  with  AP&L,  GSU,  LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI,  and  System  Energy,
resignation of employment, or termination for cause.

      In  addition  to  the  non-bargaining unit employees  Retirement
Income  Plan  discussed above, GSU provides, among other  benefits  to
officers,  an  Executive  Income  Security  Plan  for  key  managerial
personnel.   The  plan provides participants with certain  retirement,
disability, termination, and survivors' benefits.  To the extent  that
such  benefits are not funded by the employee benefit plans of GSU  or
by  vested benefits payable by the participants' former employers, GSU
is  obligated to make supplemental payments to participants  or  their
survivors.  The plan provides that upon the death or disability  of  a
participant during his employment, he or his designated survivors will
receive (i) during the first year following his death or disability an
amount not to exceed his annual base salary, and (ii) thereafter for a
number  of years until the participant attains or would have  attained
age  65, but not less than nine years, an amount equal to one-half  of
the   participant's  annual  base  salary.   The  plan  also  provides
supplemental  retirement benefits for life for  participants  retiring
after  reaching age 65 equal to 1/2 of the participant's average final
compensation  rate, with 1/2 of such benefit upon  the  death  of  the
participant being payable to a surviving spouse for life.

      GSU  amended and restated the plan effective March 1,  1991,  to
provide  such  benefits for life upon termination of employment  of  a
participating  officer or key managerial employee  without  cause  (as
defined  in  the plan) or if the participant separates from employment
for good reason (as defined in the plan), with 1/2 of such benefits to
be  payable  to a surviving spouse for life.  Further,  the  plan  was
amended  to provide medical benefits for a participant and his  family
when  the  participant separates from service.  These medical benefits
generally  continue  until  the participant  is  eligible  to  receive
medical  benefits from a subsequent employer; but in  the  case  of  a
participant  who  is  over  50  at the  time  of  separation  and  was
participating in the plan on March 1, 1991, medical benefits  continue
for  life.  By virtue of the 1991 amendment and restatement,  benefits
for  a  participant  cannot be modified once he  becomes  eligible  to
participate in the plan.

                                   
                       Compensation of Directors
                                   
     AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy currently have no
non-employee  directors, and each current director is not  compensated
for his responsibilities as director.  However, for the period January
1, 1994 through May 5, 1994, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI did have
non-employee  directors.  These directors were paid an attendance  fee
of  $1,000  for  attendance at meetings of their respective  Board  of
Directors, $1,000 (except for the chairman of such committee  who  was
paid $1,500) for attendance at meetings of committees of the Board and
$1,000  for  participation, on behalf of their respective company,  in
any  inspection trip or conference not held on the same day as a Board
or   committee   meeting.   All  non-employee  directors   were   also
compensated  on  a  quarterly basis in the form  of  fixed  awards  of
Entergy  Corporation  common stock pursuant  to  the  Stock  Plan  for
Outside Directors (Directors Plan) and cash based on 1/2 the value  of
the  stock  awarded  pursuant to the Directors Plan.   This  level  of
directors' compensation was set to enable Entergy System companies  to
attract and retain persons of outstanding competence to serve  on  the
Boards  of  Directors.   Directors  were  paid  a  portion  of   their
compensation  in  the form of Entergy Corporation's  common  stock  in
order  to assure that directors would have a personal interest in  the
performance   of  the  stock  of  Entergy  Corporation.   Non-employee
directors  were awarded 50 shares of Entergy Corporation common  stock
quarterly,  which  may  have been authorized but  unissued  shares  or
shares  acquired in the open market.  Effective May 6, 1994, all  non-
employee directors of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System  Energy
became advisory directors of the respective Company.

      Retired  non-employee directors of AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and  NOPSI
with  a  minimum of five years of service on the respective Boards  of
Directors are paid $200 a month for a term corresponding to the number
of years of service.  Retired directors with over ten years of service
receive  a lifetime benefit of $200 a month.  Years of service  as  an
advisory  director are included in calculating this  benefit.   System
Energy has no retired non-employee directors.

     Retired non-employee directors of GSU receive retirement benefits
under  a  plan  in which all directors who served continuously  for  a
period  of  years will receive a percentage of their retainer  fee  in
effect  at  the  time  of their retirement for life.   The  retirement
benefit is 30 percent of the retainer fee for service of not less than
five nor more than nine years, 40 percent for service of not less than
ten  nor more than fourteen years, and 50 percent for fifteen or  more
years  of  service.   For those directors who  retired  prior  to  the
retirement  age,  their  benefits will  be  reduced.   The  plan  also
provides  disability  retirement and  optional  hospital  and  medical
coverage if the director has served at least five years prior  to  the
disability.   The retired director pays one-third of the  premium  for
such optional hospital and medical coverage and GSU pays the remaining
two-thirds.  Years of service as an advisory director are included  in
calculating these benefits.


   Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change-in-
                         Control Arrangements
                                   
GSU

     GSU established on January 18, 1991, an Executive Continuity Plan
for  elected  and appointed officers providing for severance  benefits
equal to 2.99 times the officer's annual compensation upon termination
of  employment  for reasons other than cause or upon a resignation  of
employment for good reason within two years after a change in  control
of GSU.  Benefits are prorated if the officer is within three years of
normal  retirement  age (65) at termination of employment.   The  plan
further  provides for continued participation in medical,  dental  and
life  insurance programs for three years following termination  unless
such  benefits  are  available from a subsequent employer.   The  plan
provides  for outplacement assistance to aid a terminated  officer  in
securing  another  position.   Upon consummation  of  the  Entergy/GSU
merger  on  December  31, 1993, GSU made a one  time  contribution  of
$16,330,693  to a trust equivalent to the then present  value  of  the
maximum  benefits  which  might be payable  under  the  plan.   As  of
December  31,  1994,  the balance in the trust  had  been  reduced  to
$8,102,203.   If and to the extent outstanding benefits are  not  paid
to the participants, the balance in the trust will be returned to GSU.

      As  a result of the Entergy/GSU merger, GSU is obligated to  pay
benefits under the Executive Income Security Plan to those persons who
were  participants at the time of the merger and who later  terminated
their  employment  under circumstances described  in  the  plan.   For
additional  description  of the benefits under  the  Executive  Income
Security   Plan,   see  the  "Pension  Plan  Tables-System   Executive
Retirement Plan Table" section noted above.

       Personnel Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
                                   
     The following persons served as members of the Personnel
Committee of AP&L's, GSU's, LP&L's,  MP&L's, and NOPSI's  Board of
Directors through May 5, 1994:

     AP&L - John A. Cooper, Jr.*, Edwin Lupberger, Roy L. Murphy,
Woodson D. Walker

     GSU - Monroe J. Rathbone, Jr., M.D., Sam F. Segnar*, Bismark A.
Steinhagen

     LP&L - Tex. R. Kilpatrick*, Edwin Lupberger, Wm. Clifford Smith

     MP&L - Norman B. Gillis, Robert E. Kennington, II*, Edwin
Lupberger, Robert M. Williams, Jr.

     NOPSI - Edwin Lupberger, Anne M. Milling, John B. Smallpage*
______________

* Denotes Chairman of the Personnel Committee

     System Energy does not have a Personnel Committee of the Board of
Directors.   The  compensation of System Energy's  executive  officers
(with the exception of one officer) was set by the Personnel Committee
of  Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors for 1994.  After  May  5,
1994,  the  compensation of AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI executive
officers  was  set by the Personnel Committee of Entergy Corporation's
Board  of Directors due to the elimination of the Personnel Committees
of  these  companies.   No officers or employees  of   such  companies
participated  in  deliberations concerning compensation  during  1994.
The Personnel Committee of Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors is
set  forth  under  the  heading  "Report  of  Personnel  Committee  on
Executive  Compensation" contained in the Proxy Statement  of  Entergy
Corporation  to  be  filed in connection with its  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders  to  be held May 26, 1995, and is incorporated  herein  by
reference.

      Mr.  Lupberger is currently and was during 1994  an  officer  of
AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI and also served as an executive officer of
their subsidiary, System Fuels, from 1981 - 1990.


Item  12.   Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners   and
Management

      Entergy Corporation owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of
registrants  AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and  System  Energy.   The
information with respect to persons known by Entergy Corporation to be
beneficial  owners  of  more than 5% of Entergy  Corporation's  common
stock is included under the heading "Voting Securities Outstanding" in
the  Proxy  Statement of Entergy Corporation to be filed in connection
with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 26, 1995, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.  The registrants know
of  no contractual arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, result
in a change in control of any of the registrants.

      The  directors,  the  executive officers named  in  the  Summary
Compensation  Tables, and the directors and officers as  a  group  for
Entergy  Corporation, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System Energy,
respectively, beneficially owned directly or indirectly the  following
cumulative  preferred stock of a System company and  common  stock  of
Entergy Corporation:

                                        As of December 31, 1994
                                                           Entergy Corporation
                                                               Common Stock
                               Preferred Stock              Amount and Nature
                            Amount and Nature of              of Beneficial
                           Beneficial Ownership(b)             Ownership(b)
                          Sole Voting                  Sole Voting     Other
                              and          Other         and         Beneficial
                          Investment    Beneficial     Investment    Ownership
          Name             Power(c)      Ownership      Power(c)    (d)(e)(f)(g)
                                                                   
Entergy Corporation                             
W. Frank Blount*               -            -             2,934           -
John A. Cooper, Jr.*        6,000 (a)       -             5,734           -
Lucie J. Fjeldstad*            -            -             1,984           -
Dr. Norman C. Francis*         -            -               500           -
Donald C. Hintz**              -            -             7,493     32,027
Kaneaster Hodges, Jr.*         -            -             2,800           -
Jerry D. Jackson**             -            -             6,402     35,216
Robert v.d. Luft*              -            -             2,184           -
Edwin Lupberger**              -            -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**             -            -            37,420     44,048
Gerald D. McInvale**           -            -             3,173     20,908
Adm. Kinnaird R. McKee*        -            -             2,900           -
Paul W. Murrill*               -            -             2,180           -
James R. Nichols*              -            -             3,315           -
Eugene H. Owen*                -        3,500 (a)         1,692           -
John N. Palmer, Sr.*           -            -            13,196           -
Robert D. Pugh*                -            -             5,300     10,000(i)
H. Duke Shackelford*           -            -             8,750      4,950(i)
Wm. Clifford Smith*            -            -             3,775           -
Bismark A. Steinhagen*         -            -             6,437           -
All directors and                                                       
 executive officers         6,000       3,500           135,419    266,320
                                                                        
AP&L                                                                    
Michael B. Bemis**             -            -             7,488     25,540
Donald C. Hintz**              -            -             7,493     32,027
Jerry D. Jackson**             -            -             6,402     35,216
R. Drake Keith***              -            -             2,891     13,260
Edwin Lupberger**              -            -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**             -            -            37,420     44,048
All directors and                                                  
 executive officers            -            -            90,631    334,762
                                                                              
GSU                                                                           
Michael B. Bemis**            -             -             7,488     25,540
Frank F. Gallaher***          -             -             3,725     24,696(j)
Donald C. Hintz**             -             -             7,493     32,027
Jerry D. Jackson**            -             -             6,402     35,216
Edwin Lupberger**             -             -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**            -             -            37,420     44,048
All directors and                                                   
 executive officers           -             -            82,755    313,558
                                                                              
LP&L                                                                          
Michael B. Bemis**            -             -             7,488     25,540
John J. Cordaro***            -             -             1,747      9,877
Donald C. Hintz**             -             -             7,493     32,027
Jerry D. Jackson**            -             -             6,402     35,216
Edwin Lupberger**             -             -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**            -             -            37,420     44,048
All directors and                                                  
 executive officers           -             -            86,348    335,037
                                                                   
MP&L                                                               
Michael B. Bemis**            -             -             7,488     25,540
Donald C. Hintz*              -             -             7,493     32,027
Jerry D. Jackson**            -             -             6,402     35,216
Edwin Lupberger**             -             -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**            -             -            37,420     44,048
Gerald D. McInvale**          -             -             3,173     20,908
Donald E. Meiners***          -             -             1,382     15,033(j)
All directors and                                                  
 executive officers           -             -            83,958    330,524
                                                                              
NOPSI                                                                         
Michael B. Bemis**            -             -             7,488     25,540
John J. Cordaro***            -             -             1,747      9,877
Jerry D. Jackson**            -             -             6,402     35,216
Edwin Lupberger**             -             -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden**            -             -            37,420     44,048
Gerald D. McInvale**          -             -             3,173     20,908
All directors and                                                  
 executive officers           -             -            78,751    294,663
                                                                   
System Energy                                                      
Joseph L. Blount**            -             -               834      2,287
Donald C. Hintz**             -             -             7,493     32,027
Jerry D. Jackson*             -             -             6,402     35,216
Edwin Lupberger**             -             -             8,706     73,687(h)(i)
Jerry L. Maulden*             -             -            37,420     44,048
Gerald D. McInvale**          -             -             3,173     20,908
Lee W. Randall**              -             -               -        4,561
All directors and                                                  
 executive officers           -             -            64,028    212,734

  *  Director of the respective Company

 **  Named Executive Officer of the respective Company

***  Officer and Director of the respective Company

(a)  Stock ownership amounts refer to 6,000 shares of AP&L's $0.01 Par
     Value  ($25 liquidation value) Preferred Stock held by the   John
     A.  Cooper Trust, and 3,500 shares of AP&L's $0.01 Par Value ($25
     liquidation value) Preferred Stock held by Eugene H.  Owen.   Mr.
     Cooper disclaims any personal interest in these shares.

(b)  Based  on  information  furnished by the respective  individuals.
     The  ownership  amounts  shown for each individual  and  for  all
     directors  and  executive officers as a group do not  exceed  one
     percent of the outstanding securities of any class of security so
     owned.

(c)  Includes  all  shares that the individual has the sole  power  to
     vote and dispose of, or to direct the voting and disposition of.

(d)  Includes,  for  the named persons, shares of Entergy  Corporation
     common  stock held in the Employee Stock Ownership  Plan  of  the
     registrants as follows: Michael B. Bemis, 714 shares;  Joseph  L.
     Blount,  753  shares;  John J. Cordaro, 1,007  shares;  Frank  F.
     Gallaher,  941  shares; Donald C. Hintz,  753  shares;  Jerry  D.
     Jackson, 753 shares; R. Drake Keith, 753 shares; Edwin Lupberger,
     825   shares;  Jerry L. Maulden, 796 shares; Gerald D.  McInvale,
     110  shares;  Donald E. Meiners, 553 shares; and Lee W.  Randall,
     791 shares.

(e)  Includes,  for  the named persons, shares of Entergy  Corporation
     common  stock held in the System Savings Plan company account  as
     follows: Michael B. Bemis, 4,576 shares; Joseph L. Blount,  1,534
     shares;  John J. Cordaro, 1,670 shares; Frank F. Gallaher,  3,455
     shares;  Donald  C. Hintz, 1,206 shares; Jerry D. Jackson,  2,052
     shares;  R.  Drake  Keith, 3,833 shares; Edwin  Lupberger,  6,088
     shares; Jerry L. Maulden, 10,252 shares; Gerald D. McInvale,  548
     shares;  Donald  E. Meiners, 4,404 shares; and  Lee  W.  Randall,
     3,770 shares.

(f)  Includes,  for the named persons, unvested restricted  shares  of
     Entergy  Corporation  common stock held in the  Equity  Ownership
     Plan  as  follows:  Michael  B. Bemis,  12,750  shares;  John  J.
     Cordaro,  2,200 shares; Frank F. Gallaher, 14,800 shares;  Donald
     C.  Hintz,  17,568  shares; Jerry D. Jackson, 18,000  shares;  R.
     Drake  Keith, 1,500 shares; Edwin Lupberger, 33,950 shares; Jerry
     L. Maulden, 18,000 shares; Gerald D. McInvale, 12,750 shares; and
     Donald E. Meiners, 1,500 shares.

(g)  Includes,  for  the named persons, shares of Entergy  Corporation
     common  stock  in  the form of unexercised stock options  awarded
     pursuant  to  the  Equity Ownership Plan as follows:  Michael  B.
     Bemis,  7,500  shares;  John J. Cordaro 5,000  shares;  Frank  F.
     Gallaher, 5,000 shares; Donald C. Hintz, 12,500 shares; Jerry  D.
     Jackson,  14,411  shares;  R. Drake Keith,  7,174  shares;  Edwin
     Lupberger, 28,824 shares; Jerry L. Maulden, 15,000 shares; Gerald
     D. McInvale, 7,500 shares; and Donald E. Meiners, 7,500 shares.

(h)  Includes  1,500 shares of Entergy Corporation common  stock  held
     jointly between Edwin Lupberger and Ms.  E.  H. Lupberger.

(i)  Includes,  for  the named persons, shares of Entergy  Corporation
     common  stock held by their spouses.  The named persons  disclaim
     any   personal  interest  in  these  shares  as  follows:   Edwin
     Lupberger,  2,500 shares; Robert D. Pugh, 10,000 shares;  and  H.
     Duke Shackleford, 4,950 shares.

(j)  Includes,  for the named persons,  shares of Entergy  Corporation
     common stock held jointly with their  spouses as follows:   Frank
     F. Gallaher, 500 shares; and Don E. Meiners, 1,076 shares.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Information called for by this item concerning the directors and
officers  of  Entergy  Corporation is  set  forth  under  the  heading
"Certain  Transactions" in the Proxy Statement of Entergy  Corporation
to  be filed in connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders  to
be  held on May 26, 1995, which information is incorporated herein  by
reference.

      See  Item  11,  "Executive Compensation  -  Personnel  Committee
Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation" for  information  on  certain
transactions required to be reported under this item.

      Other  than  as  provided under applicable corporate  laws,  the
System  companies do not have policies whereby transactions  involving
executive  officers  and directors of the System  are  approved  by  a
majority of disinterested directors. However, pursuant to the  Entergy
Corporation  Code of Conduct, transactions involving a System  company
and its executive officers must have prior approval by the next higher
reporting  level  of  that  individual, and transactions  involving  a
System company and its directors must be reported to the secretary  of
the appropriate System company.

                                   

                                PART IV
                                   
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)1.  Financial  Statements  and  Independent  Auditors'  Reports  for
        Entergy,  AP&L,  GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and System  Energy  are
        listed  in the Index to Financial Statements (see pages 56 and 57)

(a)2.  Financial Statement Schedules

        Reports   of  Independent  Accountants  on  Financial  Statement
        Schedules (see pages 385 and 386)

        Financial  Statement  Schedules  are  listed  in  the  Index  to
        Financial Statement Schedules (see page S-1)

(a)3.  Exhibits

        Exhibits  for Entergy, AP&L, GSU, LP&L, MP&L, NOPSI, and  System
        Energy  are  listed in the Exhibit Index (see page  E-1).   Each
        management   contract  or  compensatory  plan   or   arrangement
        required to be filed as an exhibit hereto is identified as  such
        by footnote in the Exhibit Index.

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       Entergy and GSU

        A current report on Form 8-K, dated October 21, 1994, was filed
        with  the  SEC on October 28, 1994, reporting information  under
        Item 5 "Other Materially Important Events".

        A  current  report  on Form 8-K, dated December  14,  1994,  was
        filed  with  the SEC on December 16, 1994, reporting information
        under Item 5 "Other Materially Important Events".

        A  current  report  on Form 8-K, dated December  21,  1994,  was
        filed  with  the SEC on December 22, 1994, reporting information
        under Item 5 "Other Materially Important Events".

       Entergy, GSU, LP&L and NOPSI

        A current report on Form 8-K, dated December 9, 1994, was filed
        with  the  SEC on December 9, 1994, reporting information  under
        Items 4 and 7.

       Entergy and NOPSI

        A current report on Form 8-K, dated December 9, 1994, was filed
        with  the  SEC  on January 9, 1995, reporting information  under
        Item 5 "Other Materially Important Events".


                                EXPERTS


     All statements in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to
matters  of law and legal conclusions, based on the belief or  opinion
of  System  Energy  or  any  System operating  company  or  otherwise,
pertaining to the titles to properties, franchises and other operating
rights of certain of the registrants filing this Annual Report on Form
10-K,  and  their  subsidiaries, the regulations  to  which  they  are
subject  and any legal proceedings to which they are parties are  made
on  the  authority of Friday, Eldredge & Clark, 2000 First  Commercial
Building, 400 West Capitol, Little Rock, Arkansas, as to AP&L  and  as
to Entergy Services in regards to flood litigation; Monroe & Lemann (A
Professional  Corporation), 201 St. Charles Avenue,  Suite  3300,  New
Orleans,  Louisiana,  as to LP&L and NOPSI; and Wise  Carter  Child  &
Caraway,   Professional  Association,  Heritage   Building,   Jackson,
Mississippi, as to MP&L and System Energy.

       The  statements  attributed  to  Clark,  Thomas  &  Winters,  a
professional  corporation,  as to legal conclusions  with  respect  to
GSU's  rate  regulation  in  Texas under Item  1.  "Rate  Matters  and
Regulation - Rate Matters - Retail Rate Matters - GSU" and in  Note  2
to   Entergy  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  Consolidated   Financial
Statements  and  GSU's  Financial  Statements,  "Rate  and  Regulatory
Matters," have been reviewed by such firm and are included herein upon
the authority of such firm as experts.

      The  statements attributed to Sandlin Associates  regarding  the
analysis  of River Bend Construction costs of GSU under Item 1.  "Rate
Matters and Regulation - Rate Matters - Retail Rate Matters - GSU" and
in  Note  2  to  Entergy  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  and  GSU's  Financial  Statements,  "Rate   and
Regulatory Matters," have been reviewed by such firm and are  included
herein upon the authority of such firm as experts.



                          ENTERGY CORPORATION
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.


                                      ENTERGY CORPORATION



                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President
                                      and Chief Accounting Officer

                                      Date: March 27, 1995


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)




     Edwin Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief  Executive Officer and 
     Director; Principal Executive Officer);  Gerald  D. McInvale (Senior  
     Vice President  and  Chief  Financial  Officer;  Principal Financial 
     Officer); W. Frank Blount, John A. Cooper, Jr., N. C. Francis, Lucie 
     J. Fjeldstad,  Kaneaster Hodges, Jr., Robert  v.d.  Luft, Kinnaird R.  
     McKee,  Paul W. Murrill,  James R. Nichols,  Eugene H. Owen,  John N.
     Palmer, Robert D. Pugh, H. Duke Shackelford,  Wm. Clifford Smith, and 
     Bismark A. Steinhagen (Directors).



     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                          March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)




                    ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.

                                      ARKANSAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY


                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President,
                                      Chief Accounting Officer, and
                                      Assistant Secretary

                                      Date: March 27, 1995

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)
     
     
     
     
     Edwin Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 
     and Director; Principal Executive Officer); Gerald  D. McInvale  
     (Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;  Principal 
     Financial Officer); Michael B. Bemis, Donald C. Hintz, Jerry D. 
     Jackson, R. Drake Keith, and Jerry L. Maulden (Directors).
     
     
     
     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                          March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)
     



                     GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.


                                      GULF STATES UTILITIES COMPANY



                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President,
                                      Chief Accounting Officer and
                                      Assistant Secretary

                                      Date: March 27, 1995


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)




     Edwin Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 
     and Director; Principal Executive Officer);  Gerald D. McInvale
     (Senior  Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer; Principal 
     Financial Officer); Michael B. Bemis, Frank F. Gallaher, Donald 
     C. Hintz, Jerry D. Jackson, and Jerry L. Maulden (Directors).




     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                          March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)



                    LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.

                                      LOUISIANA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY



                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President,
                                      Chief Accounting Officer and
                                      Assistant Secretary

                                      Date: March 27, 1995

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)
     
     
     
     
     Edwin  Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief  Executive Officer   
     and Director; Principal  Executive  Officer);  Gerald D. McInvale  
     (Senior Vice President  and  Chief  Financial  Officer; Principal 
     Financial  Officer);  Michael B.  Bemis,  John J. Cordaro, Donald 
     C. Hintz,  Jerry  D. Jackson, and Jerry L. Maulden (Directors).
     
     
     
     
     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                         March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)


     
                   MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.

                                      MISSISSIPPI POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
                                      


                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President,
                                      Chief Accounting Officer and
                                      Assistant Secretary

                                      Date: March 27, 1995

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)
     
     
     
     
     Edwin  Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief  Executive Officer   
     and Director;  Principal  Executive Officer); Gerald D.  McInvale  
     (Senior Vice  President  and  Chief  Financial Officer; Principal 
     Financial Officer);  Michael B.  Bemis,  Donald C. Hintz, Jerry D. 
     Jackson, Jerry L. Maulden, and Donald E. Meiners (Directors).
     
     
     
     
     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                         March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)


                    NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.

                                      NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC SERVICE INC.



                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President,
                                      Chief Accounting Officer and
                                      Assiatant Secretary

                                      Date: March 27, 1995

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


      Signature                      Title                    Date




    LEE W. RANDALL
    Lee W. Randall     Vice President, Chief Accounting    March 27, 1995
                        Officer and Assistant Secretary
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)
     
     
     
     
     Edwin  Lupberger (Chairman of the Board, Chief  Executive Officer   
     and Director;  Principal Executive  Officer); Gerald  D. McInvale  
     (Senior Vice  President  and  Chief Financial  Officer; Principal 
     Financial Officer); John J. Cordaro, Jerry D. Jackson, and  Jerry   
     L. Maulden (Directors).
     
     
     
     
     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                         March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)
     
     

                     SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
                                   
                              SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this
report  to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto  duly
authorized.  The signature of the undersigned company shall be  deemed
to  relate  only to matters having reference to such company  and  any
subsidiaries thereof.

                                      SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.



                                      By       LEE W. RANDALL
                                      Lee W. Randall, Vice President
                                      and Chief Accounting Officer

                                      Date: March 27, 1995

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934,  this  report has been signed below by the following persons  on
behalf  of  the  registrant and in the capacities  and  on  the  dates
indicated.  The signature of each of the undersigned shall  be  deemed
to  relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.


          Signature                  Title                 Date
     
     
     
     
        LEE W. RANDALL
        Lee W. Randall      Vice President and Chief  March 27, 1995
                               Accounting Officer
                         (Principal Accounting Officer)
     
     
     
     
     Donald  C. Hintz (President, Chief Executive Officer  and 
     Director;   Principal  Executive  Officer);   Gerald   D.
     McInvale  (Senior  Vice  President  and  Chief  Financial
     Officer;  Principal Financial Officer);  Edwin  Lupberger
     (Chairman  of  the  Board), Donald  C.  Hintz,  Jerry  D.
     Jackson, and Jerry L. Maulden (Directors).
     
     
     
     
     By:       LEE W. RANDALL                         March 27, 1995
     (Lee W. Randall, Attorney-in-fact)
     
                                                       
                                                       EXHIBIT 23(a)


                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

      We  consent  to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective
Amendment  Nos.  2,  3,  4A,  and 5A  on  Form  S-8  and  the  related
Prospectuses to registration statement of Entergy Corporation on  Form
S-4  (File  Number 33-54298), of our reports dated February 21,  1995,
except  for  the  last  paragraph of the section  of  Note  2  to  the
consolidated financial statements subtitled "Filings with the PUCT and
Texas Cities" as to which the date is March 20, 1995, on our audit  of
the   consolidated   financial  statements  and  financial   statement
schedules of Entergy Corporation as of and for the year ended December
31, 1994, which reports include explanatory paragraphs related to rate-
related  contingencies and legal proceedings and are included in  this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements  and  the related Prospectuses of Arkansas  Power  &  Light
Company  on Form S-3 (File Number 33-36149, 33-48356 and 33-50289)  of
our  reports  dated February 21, 1995 on our audit  of  the  financial
statements and financial statement schedules of Arkansas Power & Light
Company  as  of  and for the year ended December 31,  1994  which  are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      We  consent  to  the incorporation by reference in  registration
statements  and  the  related Prospectuses of  Gulf  States  Utilities
Company on Form S-3 (File Numbers 33-49739 and 33-51181) and Form  S-8
(File  Numbers 2-76551 and 2-98011) of our reports dated February  21,
1995,  except for the last paragraph of the section of Note 2  to  the
financial  statements  subtitled "Filings  with  the  PUCT  and  Texas
Cities" as to which the date is March 20, 1995, on our audits  of  the
financial statements and financial statement schedules of Gulf  States
Utilities  Company as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 and for the  three
years  ended  December  31,  1994, which reports  include  explanatory
paragraphs  related to rate-related contingencies,  legal  proceedings
and  changes in accounting for income taxes, postretirement  benefits,
unbilled  revenue  and  power plant materials  and  supplies  and  are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements  and the related Prospectuses of Louisiana  Power  &  Light
Company on Form S-3 (File Numbers 33-46085, 33-39221 and 33-50937)  of
our  reports  dated February 21, 1995 on our audit  of  the  financial
statements  and  financial statement schedules of  Louisiana  Power  &
Light Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 1994 which are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements and the related Prospectuses of Mississippi Power  &  Light
Company on Form S-3 (File Numbers 33-53004, 33-55826  and 33-50507) of
our  reports  dated February 21, 1995 on our audit  of  the  financial
statements  and financial statement schedules of Mississippi  Power  &
Light Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 1994 which are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statement  and  the related Prospectus of New Orleans  Public  Service
Inc.  on Form S-3 (File Number 33-57926) of our reports dated February
21,  1995  on  our  audit  of the financial statements  and  financial
statement schedules of New Orleans Public Service Inc. as of  and  for
the  year  ended December 31, 1994 which are included in  this  Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
                                   
      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statement and the related Prospectus of System Energy Resources,  Inc.
on  Form S-3 (File Number 33-47662) of our reports dated February  21,
1995  on our audit of the financial statements and financial statement
schedules  of  System Energy Resources, Inc. as of and  for  the  year
ended  December 31, 1994 which are included in this Annual  Report  on
Form 10-K.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
March 24, 1995



                                                       EXHIBIT 23(b)


                     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT


      We  consent  to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective
Amendment  Nos. 2, 3, 4A, and 5A on Form S-8 to Registration Statement
No.  33-54298  of  Entergy Corporation on Form S-4,  and  the  related
Prospectuses, of our reports dated February 11, 1994 (which express an
unqualified   opinion  and  include  explanatory  paragraphs   as   to
uncertainties  because of certain regulatory and litigation  matters),
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Entergy Corporation.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statements  Nos. 33-36149, 33-48356 and 33-50289 of Arkansas  Power  &
Light  Company  on  Form  S-3, and the related  Prospectuses,  of  our
reports  dated February 11, 1994, appearing in this Annual  Report  on
Form 10-K of Arkansas Power & Light Company.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statements Nos. 33-46085, 33-39221 and 33-50937 of Louisiana  Power  &
Light  Company  on  Form  S-3, and the related  Prospectuses,  of  our
reports  dated February 11, 1994, appearing in this Annual  Report  on
Form 10-K of Louisiana Power & Light Company.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statements Nos. 33-53004, 33-55826 and 33-50507 of Mississippi Power &
Light  Company  on  Form  S-3, and the related  Prospectuses,  of  our
reports  dated February 11, 1994, appearing in this Annual  Report  on
Form 10-K of Mississippi Power & Light Company.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statement No. 33-57926 of New Orleans Public Service Inc. on Form S-3,
and  the  related Prospectus, of our reports dated February 11,  1994,
appearing  in  this Annual Report on Form 10-K of New  Orleans  Public
Service Inc.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statement  No. 33-47662 of System Energy Resources, Inc. on Form  S-3,
and  the  related Prospectus, of our reports dated February  11,  1994
(November 30, 1994 as to Note 2, "Rate and Regulatory Matters  -  FERC
Settlement"), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K  of  System
Energy Resources, Inc.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
March 27, 1995



                                                       EXHIBIT 23(c)


                          CONSENT OF EXPERTS


      We  consent  to  the  reference to our firm  under  the  heading
"Experts"  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We further consent  to
the  incorporation by reference of such reference  to  our  firm  into
Arkansas  Power  &  Light  Company's ("AP&L") Registration  Statements
(Form  S-3,  File  Nos. 33-36149, 33-48356 and 33-50289)  and  related
Prospectuses, pertaining to AP&L's First Mortgage Bonds and  Preferred
Stock.

                                        Very truly yours,

                                        /s/ Friday, Eldredge & Clark

                                        FRIDAY, ELDREDGE & CLARK

Date:  March 27, 1995


                                                       EXHIBIT 23(d)


                                CONSENT


      We  consent  to  the  reference to our firm  under  the  heading
"Experts", and to the inclusion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K  of
Gulf  States  Utilities  Company ("GSU") of the  statements  of  legal
conclusions  attributed  to  us  herein  (the  Statements   of   Legal
Conclusions)  under  Part  I, Item 1. Business  -  "Rate  Matters  and
Regulation" and in the discussion of Texas jurisdictional matters  set
forth  in  Note 2 to GSU's Financial Statements and Note 2 to  Entergy
Corporation   and   Subsidiaries  Consolidated  Financial   Statements
appearing as Item 8. of Part II of this Form 10-K, which Statements of
Legal  Conclusions have been prepared or reviewed by us (Clark, Thomas
&  Winters,  a  Professional Corporation).  We  also  consent  to  the
incorporation by reference in the registration statements  of  GSU  on
Form  S-3  and Form S-8 (File Numbers 2-76551, 2-98011, 33-49739,  and
33-51181) of such reference and Statements of Legal Conclusions.]

                                        /s/ Clark, Thomas & Winters

                                        CLARK, THOMAS & WINTERS
                                        A Professional Corporation




Austin, Texas
March 27, 1995



                                                       EXHIBIT 23(e)


                                CONSENT


      We  consent  to  the  reference to our firm  under  the  heading
"Experts" and to the inclusion in this Annual Report on Form  10-K  of
Gulf  States  Utilities Company ("GSU") of the statements (Statements)
regarding  the  analysis by our Firm of River Bend construction  costs
which  are made herein under Part I, Item 1. Business - "Rate  Matters
and  Regulation" and in the discussion of Texas jurisdictional matters
set  forth  in  Note 2 to GSU's Financial Statements  and  Note  2  to
Entergy   Corporation   and   Subsidiaries'   Consolidated   Financial
Statements  appearing as Item 8. of Part II of this Form  10-K,  which
Statements  have been prepared or reviewed by us (Sandlin Associates).
We  also consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements  of GSU on Form S-3 and Form S-8 (File Numbers 2-76551,  2-
98011, 33-49739 and 33-51181) of such reference and Statements.


                                        /s/ Sandlin Associates

                                        SANDLIN ASSOCIATES
                                        Management Consultants

Pasco, Washington
March 27, 1995



                                                       EXHIBIT 23(f)


                          CONSENT OF EXPERTS


      We  consent  to  the  reference to our firm  under  the  heading
"Experts"  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We further consent  to
the  incorporation by reference of such reference  to  our  firm  into
Louisiana  Power  &  Light Company's ("LP&L") Registration  Statements
(Form  S-3, File Nos. 33-46085, 33-39221 and 33-50937) and the related
Prospectuses, pertaining to LP&L's First Mortgage Bonds and  Preferred
Stock,   and   into  New  Orleans  Public  Service  Inc.'s   ("NOPSI")
Registration Statement (Form S-3, File No. 33-57926) and  the  related
Prospectus pertaining to NOPSI's General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds.

                                        Very truly yours,
                                        
                                        /s/ Monroe & Lemann

                                        MONROE & LEMANN

Date:  March 27, 1995


                                                       EXHIBIT 23(g)


                          CONSENT OF EXPERTS


      We  consent  to  the  reference to our firm  under  the  heading
"Experts"  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We further consent  to
the  incorporation by reference of such reference  to  our  firm  into
System Energy Resources, Inc.'s (System Energy) Registration Statement
on  Form S-3 (File No. 33-47662) and the related prospectus pertaining
to System Energy's First Mortgage Bonds, and into Mississippi Power  &
Light  Company's ("MP&L") Registration Statements on  Form  S-3  (File
Nos.  33-53004,  33-55826 and 33-50507) and the  related  prospectuses
pertaining  to  MP&L's  Preferred  Stock  and  General  and  Refunding
Mortgage Bonds.

                                        Very truly yours,

                                        WISE CARTER CHILD & CARAWAY
                                        Professional Association


                                        By   /s/ ROBERT B. MCGEHEE
                                                  Robert B. McGehee

Date:  March 27, 1995



                                   
                                   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors
   of Entergy Corporation

      We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries and the financial statements of  Arkansas
Power  &  Light Company, Louisiana Power & Light Company,  Mississippi
Power  &  Light Company, New Orleans Public Service Inc.,  and  System
Energy Resources, Inc. as of and for the year ended December 31, 1994,
and  the financial statements of Gulf States Utilities Company  as  of
December  31,  1994 and 1993, and for each of the three years  in  the
period  ended December 31, 1994, and have issued our reports  included
elsewhere  in this Form 10-K, thereon dated February 21, 1995,  except
for  the last paragraph of the section of the Entergy Corporation  and
Gulf  States Utilities Company Note 2 subtitled "Filings with the PUCT
and  Texas  Cities",  as to which the date is March  20,  1995,  which
reports as  to  Entergy Corporation and Gulf States Utilities  Company
include  explanatory paragraphs related to rate-related  contingencies
and  legal  proceedings, and which report as to Gulf States  Utilities
Company  includes  an  explanatory paragraph  related  to  changes  in
accounting for income taxes, postretirement benefits, unbilled revenue
and power plant materials and supplies.  In connection with our audits
of  such  financial  statements,  we have  also  audited  the  related
financial statement schedules included in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-
K.

      In  our  opinion the financial statement schedules  referred  to
above,  when considered in relation to the basic financial  statements
taken  as  a  whole,  present  fairly in  all  material  respects  the
information required to be included therein.

/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 21, 1995, except for the last paragraph
of "Filings with the PUCT and Texas Cities" in
Note 2, as to which the date is March 20, 1995



     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors
   of Entergy Corporation

      We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Entergy
Corporation and subsidiaries and the financial statements of  Arkansas
Power  &  Light Company, Louisiana Power & Light Company,  Mississippi
Power  &  Light Company, New Orleans Public Service Inc.,  and  System
Energy  Resources, Inc. as of December 31, 1993, and for each  of  the
two  years in the period ended December 31, 1993, and have issued  our
reports  thereon dated February 11, 1994, which report as  to  Entergy
Corporation   includes  explanatory  paragraphs  as  to  uncertainties
because of certain regulatory and litigation matters, and which report
as  to System Energy Resources, Inc. is dated November 30, 1994 as  to
Note  2, "Rate and Regulatory Matters - FERC Settlement"; such reports
are  included  elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also  included
the  1993  and 1992 financial statement schedules of these  companies,
listed  in Item 14(a)2.  These financial statement schedules  are  the
responsibility  of the companies' managements.  Our responsibility  is
to  express  an  opinion based on our audits.  We did  not  audit  the
financial  statements of Gulf States Utilities Company (a consolidated
subsidiary  of  Entergy Corporation acquired on  December  31,  1993),
which statements reflect total assets constituting 31% of consolidated
total  assets at December 31, 1993.  Those statements were audited  by
other  auditors  whose  report (which included explanatory  paragraphs
regarding  uncertainties because of certain regulatory and  litigation
matters)  has  been furnished to us, and our opinion,  insofar  as  it
relates to the amounts included for Gulf States Utilities Company,  is
based  solely  on the report of such other auditors.  In our  opinion,
based  on  our  audits  and  the report of the  other  auditors,  such
financial  statement schedules, when considered  in  relation  to  the
basic  financial statements taken as a whole, present  fairly  in  all
material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 11, 1994



                
                
                INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


Schedule                                                         Page

 I        Financial Statements of Entergy Corporation:
            Balance Sheets, December 31, 1994 and 1993            S-2
            Statements of Cash Flows - For the Years Ended 
               December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                   S-3
            Statements of Income - For the Years Ended 
               December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                   S-4
            Statements of Retained Earnings and Paid-In 
               Capital - For the Years Ended
               December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                   S-5
 II       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
            1994, 1993 and 1992:
               Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries               S-6
               Arkansas Power & Light Company                     S-7
               Gulf States Utilities Company                      S-8
               Louisiana Power & Light Company                    S-9
               Mississippi Power & Light Company                  S-10
               New Orleans Public Service Inc.                    S-11


      Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because  they
are  not required, not applicable or the required information is  shown
in the financial statements or notes thereto.

      Columns  have  been  omitted  from schedules  filed  because  the
information is not applicable.



                        ENTERGY CORPORATION
                                             
    SCHEDULE I - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ENTERGY CORPORATION
                           BALANCE SHEETS
                                                                  
                                                             December 31,
                                                        1994          1993
                                                           (In Thousands)
                      ASSETS                                                
                                                                            
Construction work in progress                                 -      $22,861
                                                     ----------   ---------- 
                  
Investment in Wholly-owned Subsidiaries              $6,110,504    6,449,165
                                                     ----------   ----------
                  
Current Assets:                                                             
  Cash equivalents:                                                         
    Temporary cash investments - at cost,                                   
      which approximates market:                                            
        Associated companies                             83,339      100,401
        Other                                           169,369       52,150
                                                     ----------   ----------
           Total cash equivalents                       252,708      152,551
  Accounts receivable:                                                      
    Associated companies                                 10,413        3,086
    Other                                                   375        2,467
  Interest receivable                                       923        1,073
  Other                                                   6,901        1,166
                                                     ----------   ----------
           Total                                        271,320      160,343
                                                     ----------   ---------- 
                  
Deferred Debits                                          55,185       93,479
                                                     ----------   ----------
           TOTAL                                     $6,437,009   $6,725,848
                                                     ==========   ==========
                  
          CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES                                    
                                                                            
Capitalization:                                                             
  Common stock, $.01 par value in 1994 and 1993:                         
    authorized 500,000,000 shares; issued and                               
    outstanding 230,017,485 shares in 1994 and                              
    231,219,737 shares in 1993                           $2,300       $2,312
  Paid-in capital                                     4,202,134    4,223,682
  Retained earnings                                   2,223,739    2,310,082
  Less - treasury stock (2,608,908 shares in 1994)       77,378            -
                                                     ----------   ----------
           Total common shareholders' equity          6,350,795    6,536,076
                                                     ----------   ---------- 
                  
Current Liabilities:                                                        
  Notes payable                                               -       43,000
  Accounts payable:                                                         
    Associated companies                                  4,578        7,556
    Other                                                 1,102       10,069
  Other current liabilities                               5,021        1,849
                                                     ----------   ----------
           Total                                         10,701       62,474
                                                     ----------   ----------
                  
Deferred Credits and Noncurrent Liabilities              75,513      127,298
                                                     ----------   ----------
           Total                                     $6,437,009   $6,725,848
                                                     ==========   ==========
                                                 
See Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements in Part II, Item 8.




See Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part II, Item 8.                                            
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              

                                ENTERGY CORPORATION
                SCHEDULE I-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ENTERGY CORPORATION
                                STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                                  
                                                  
                                              For the Years Ended December 31,
                                                 1994      1993       1992
                                                      (In Thousands)
                                                                           
Income:                                                                     
  Equity in income of subsidiaries             $369,701  $557,681   $454,947
  Interest on temporary investments              25,496    18,520     20,011
                                               --------  --------   --------
        Total                                   395,197   576,201    474,958
                                               --------  --------   --------
                       
Expenses and Other Deductions:                                              
  Administrative and general expenses            57,846    25,129     32,412
  Income taxes (credit)                          (6,350)    3,587      4,734
  Taxes other than income (credit)                  465      (696)       167
  Interest (credit)                               1,395    (3,749)         8
                                               --------  --------   --------
        Total                                    53,356    24,271     37,321
                                               --------  --------   --------
Net Income                                     $341,841  $551,930   $437,637
                                               ========  ========   ======== 
  
                                               
See Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to consolidated financial
Statements in Part II, Item 8.
                                                      

                                
                                                      
See Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part II, Item 8.                                    
                                                      


___________                                                      
Notes:                                                            
(1) Charged to clearing and other accounts.
                                                                    
(2) Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
    respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for    
    doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of amounts 
    previously written off.
                                                                    
(3) Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current expenses
    as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling claims for injuries\
    and damages.
                                                                    
                                                                    

___________                                                      
Notes:                                                            
 (1) Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
     respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for 
     doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of amounts 
     previously written off.
                                                                  
 (2) Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current 
     expenses as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling claims
     for injuries and damages.
                                                                  
    

___________                                                       
Notes:                                                            
(1)  Charged to clearing and other accounts.
                                                                  
(2)  Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
     respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for
     doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of
     amounts previously written off.
                                                                  
(3)  Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current 
     expenses as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling
     claims for injuries and damages.
                                                                  


___________                                                      
Notes:                                                            
 (1) Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
     respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for   
     doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of amounts 
     previously written off.
                                                                  
 (2) Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current expenses
     as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling claims for injuries
     and damages.
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                 
___________                                                      
Notes:                                                            
(1) Charged to clearing and other accounts.
                                                                  
(2) Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
    respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for    
    doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of amounts 
    previously written off.
                                                                  
(3) Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current expenses
    as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling claims for injuries 
    and damages.
                                                                  
                                                                  

___________                                                      
Notes:                                                            
(1) Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
    respective provisions were created.  In the case of the provision for    
    doubtful accounts, such deductions are reduced by recoveries of
    amounts previously written off.
                                                                  
(2) Injuries and damages provision is provided to absorb all current expenses
    as appropriate and for the estimated cost of settling claims for injuries
    and damages.
                                                                  
                                                                  

                                                      


                             EXHIBIT INDEX
                                   
                                   
        The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding  the
exhibit  number are filed herewith.  The balance of the exhibits  have
heretofore been filed with the SEC, respectively, as the exhibits  and
in   the  file  numbers  indicated  and  are  incorporated  herein  by
reference. The exhibits marked with a (+) are management contracts  or
compensatory  plans or arrangements required to be filed herewith  and
required  to be identified as such by Item 14 of Form 10-K.  Reference
is  made to a duplicate list of exhibits being filed as a part of this
Form  10-K,  which  list,  prepared in accordance  with  Item  102  of
Regulation  S-T  of the SEC, immediately precedes the  exhibits  being
physically filed with this Form 10-K.

(3) (i)  Articles of Incorporation

Entergy Corporation

(a)    1    --   Certificate  of Incorporation of Entergy Corporation  (A-1(a)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-8059).
                 
System Energy
                 
(b)    1    --   Amended  and  Restated  Articles of Incorporation  of  System
                 Energy,  as  executed April 28, 1989 (A-1(a) to Form  U-1  in
                 70-5399).
                 
AP&L             
                 
(c)    1    --   Amended  and Restated Articles of Incorporation of  AP&L,  as
                 amended (4(c) in 33-50289).
                 
GSU              
                 
(d)    1    --   Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, of GSU  (A-11
                 in 70-8059).
                 
(d)    2    --   Statement   of  Resolution  amending  Restated  Articles   of
                 Incorporation, as amended, of GSU (A-11(a) in 70-8059).
                 
LP&L             
                 
(e)    1    --   Restated Articles of Incorporation of LP&L, as amended  (3(a)
                 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 in 1-8474).
                 
MP&L             
                 
(f)    1    --   Restated Articles of Incorporation of MP&L, as amended  (3(b)
                 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 in 0-320).
                 
*(f)   2    --   Articles  of  Amendment to Restated Articles of Incorporation
                 of  MP&L, as amended, as executed January 18, 1995 and  March
                 7, 1995.
                 
NOPSI            
                 
(g)    1    --   Restated Articles of Incorporation of NOPSI, as amended (3(c)
                 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 in 0-5807).
                 
                 
(3) (ii) By-Laws
                 
(a)         --   By-Laws of Entergy Corporation (A-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate
                 in 70-8059).
                 
(b)         --   By-Laws of System Energy (A-2(a) in 70-5399).
                 
(c)         --   By-Laws of AP&L (3(d)  to  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter ended
                 June 30, 1994).
                 
(d)         --   By-Laws of GSU (3(e)  to  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended
                 June 30, 1994). 
                 
(e)         --   By-Laws of LP&L (A-4 in 70-6962).
                 
(f)         --   By-Laws  of  MP&L (3(f) to Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                 June 30, 1994).
                 
(g)         --   By-Laws  of  NOPSI (3(g) to Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                 June 30, 1994).
                 
(4)    Instruments Defining Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures
                 
Entergy Corporation
                 
(a)    1    --   See  (4)(b) through (4)(g) below for instruments defining the
                 rights  of holders of long-term debt of System Energy,  AP&L,
                 GSU, LP&L, MP&L and NOPSI.
                 
(a)    2    --   Revolving  Credit  Agreement, dated as of  January  31,  1989
                 between  System Fuels and Bank of America National Trust  and
                 Savings  Association  (B-1(c) to Rule 24  Certificate,  dated
                 February  1, 1989, in 70-7574), as amended by First Amendment
                 to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1990 (A
                 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated October 31, 1990, in 70-7574).
                 
(a)    3    --   Security  Agreement  dated  as of January  31,  1989  between
                 System  Fuels and Bank of America National Trust and  Savings
                 Association (B-3(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated February 1,
                 1989, in 70-7574).
                 
(a)    4    --   Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 1989, between System
                 Fuels  and The Yasuda Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.,  New  York
                 Branch,  as  agent  (B-1(c)  to Rule  24  Certificate,  dated
                 October 6, 1989, in 70-7668).
                 
(a)    5    --   First  Amendment,  dated  as of  March  1,  1992,  to  Credit
                 Agreement, dated as of October 3, 1989, between System  Fuels
                 and  The Yasuda Trust and Banking Co., Ltd., New York Branch,
                 as  agent (4(a)5 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                 1991 in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    6    --   Second  Amendment, dated as of September 30, 1992, to  Credit
                 Agreement  dated as of October 3, 1989, between System  Fuels
                 and  The Yasuda Trust and Banking Co., Ltd., New York Branch,
                 as  agent (4(a)6 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    7    --   Security  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 1989, as amended,
                 between  System Fuels and The Yasuda Trust and  Banking  Co.,
                 Ltd.,   New  York  Branch,  as  agent  (B-3(c)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate, dated October 6, 1989, in 70-7668),  as  amended
                 by  First  Amendment  to  Security  Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 March  14,  1990  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  March  7,
                 1990, in 70-7668).
                 
(a)    8    --   Consent  and  Agreement, dated as of October 3,  1989,  among
                 System  Fuels,  The Yasuda Trust and Banking Co.,  Ltd.,  New
                 York  Branch, as agent, AP&L, LP&L, and System Energy (B-5(c)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated October 6, 1989, in 70-7668).
                 
System Energy
                 
(b)    1    --   Mortgage   and  Deed  of  Trust,  as  amended   by   nineteen
                 Supplemental Indentures (A-1 in 70-5890 (Mortgage); B  and  C
                 to  Rule  24  Certificate in 70-5890 (First); B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate in 70-6259 (Second); 20(a)-5 to Form 10-Q for the
                 quarter  ended June 30, 1981, in 1-3517 (Third); A-1(e)-1  to
                 Rule  24  Certificate  in  70-6985 (Fourth);  B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in 70-7021 (Fifth); B to Rule 24 Certificate  in
                 70-7021  (Sixth);  A-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate  in  70-7026
                 (Seventh); A-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7158 (Eighth);
                 B  to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7123 (Ninth); B-1 to Rule  24
                 Certificate in 70-7272 (Tenth); B-2 to Rule 24 Certificate in
                 70-7272  (Eleventh);  B-3 to Rule 24 Certificate  in  70-7272
                 (Twelfth);   B-1   to   Rule   24  Certificate   in   70-7382
                 (Thirteenth);   B-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate   in   70-7382
                 (Fourteenth);  A-2(c)  to  Rule  24  Certificate  in  70-7946
                 (Fifteenth);  A-2(c)  to  Rule  24  Certificate  in   70-7946
                 (Sixteenth);  A-2(d)  to  Rule  24  Certificate  in   70-7946
                 (Seventeenth);  A-2(e) to Rule 24 Certificate  dated  May  4,
                 1993   in  70-7946  (Eighteenth);  and  A-2(g)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946 (Nineteenth)).

(b)    2    --   Facility Lease No. 1, dated as of December 1, 1988, between
                 Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Steven Kaba,
                 successor), as Owner Trustees, and System Energy (B-2(c)(1)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as
                 supplemented by Lease Supplement No. 1 dated as of April 1,
                 1989 (B-22(b) (1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 21,
                 1989 in 70-7561) and Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of
                 January 1, 1994 (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated 
                 January 31, 1994 in 70-8215).

(b)    3    --   Facility Lease No. 2, dated as of December 1, 1988, between
                 Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Steven Kaba, 
                 successor), as Owner Trustees, and System Energy (B-2(c)(2)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in 70-7561),
                 as supplemented by Lease Supplement No. 1 dated as of 
                 April 1, 1989 (B-22(b) (2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated 
                 April 21, 1989 in 70-7561) and Lease Supplement No. 2 
                 dated as of January 1, 1994 (B-4(d) Rule 24 Certificate
                 dated January 31, 1994 in 70-8215).

(b)    4    --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1983
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi
                 (B-1 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).

(b)    5    --   Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 1, 1983, between
                 Claiborne County, Mississippi and Deposit Guaranty National
                 Bank (A-1 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).

(b)    6    --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1984, between
                 System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi (B-2 to Second
                 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).

(b)    7    --   Indenture of Trust, dated as of June 1, 1984, between
                 Claiborne Country, Mississippi and Deposit Guaranty National
                 Bank (A-2 to Second Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).

(b)    8    --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1984,
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi
                 (B-1 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).

(b)    9    --   Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 1, 1984, between
                 Claiborne County, Mississippi and Deposit Guaranty National 
                 Bank (B-2 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).

(b)   10    --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of June 15, 1985, 
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi
                 (B-1(b) to Third Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).

(b)   11    --   Indenture of Trust, dated as of June 15, 1985, between
                 Claiborne County, Mississippi and Deposit Guaranty National
                 Bank (B-2(b) to Third Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).

(b)   12    --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, 
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi
                 (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7158).

(b)   13    --   Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 1, 1986, between
                 Claiborne County, Mississippi and Deposit Guaranty National
                 Bank (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7158).
                
AP&L             
                 
(c)    1    --   Mortgage   and  Deed  of  Trust,  as  amended  by   fifty-two
                 Supplemental Indentures (7(d) in 2-5463 (Mortgage);  7(b)  in
                 2-7121  (First);  7(c)  in 2-7605 (Second);  7(d)  in  2-8100
                 (Third); 7(a)-4 in 2-8482 (Fourth); 7(a)-5 in 2-9149 (Fifth);
                 4(a)-6 in 2-9789 (Sixth); 4(a)-7 in 2-10261 (Seventh); 4(a)-8
                 in  2-11043  (Eighth); 2(b)-9 in 2-11468 (Ninth); 2(b)-10  in
                 2-15767  (Tenth);  D  in  70-3952 (Eleventh);  D  in  70-4099
                 (Twelfth);  4(d)  in 2-23185 (Thirteenth);  2(c)  in  2-24414
                 (Fourteenth);  2(c) in 2-25913 (Fifteenth); 2(c)  in  2-28869
                 (Sixteenth); 2(d) in 2-28869 (Seventeenth); 2(c)  in  2-35107
                 (Eighteenth); 2(d) in 2-36646 (Nineteenth); 2(c)  in  2-39253
                 (Twentieth); 2(c) in 2-41080 (Twenty-first); C-1 to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5151  (Twenty-second);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5257  (Twenty-third);  C   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5343  (Twenty-fourth);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5404  (Twenty-fifth);  C   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5502  (Twenty-sixth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5556 (Twenty-seventh);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5693  (Twenty-eighth);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6078  (Twenty-ninth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate   in  70-6174  (Thirtieth);  C-1   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6246  (Thirty-first);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in 70-6498 (Thirty-second); A-4b-2  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6326  (Thirty-third);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6607  (Thirty-fourth);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6650  (Thirty-fifth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate,   dated   December   1,   1982,    in    70-6774
                 (Thirty-sixth);   C-1   to   Rule   24   Certificate,   dated
                 February  17,  1983, in 70-6774 (Thirty-seventh);  A-2(a)  to
                 Rule  24  Certificate, dated December  5,  1984,  in  70-6858
                 (Thirty-eighth);  A-3(a) to Rule 24  Certificate  in  70-7127
                 (Thirty-ninth);  A-7  to  Rule  24  Certificate  in   70-7068
                 (Fortieth); A-8(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated July 6,  1989
                 in  70-7346  (Forty-first); A-8(c) to  Rule  24  Certificate,
                 dated  February 1, 1990 in 70-7346 (Forty-second); 4 to  Form
                 10-Q  for  the  quarter ended September 30, 1990  in  1-10764
                 (Forty-third);   A-2(a)   to  Rule  24   Certificate,   dated
                 November 30, 1990, in 70-7802 (Forty-fourth); A-2(b) to  Rule
                 24   Certificate,   dated  January  24,  1991,   in   70-7802
                 (Forty-fifth); 4(d)(2) in 33-54298 (Forty-sixth); 4(c)(2)  to
                 Form  10-K  for the year ended December 31, 1992  in  1-10764
                 (Forty-seventh); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Forty-eighth); 4(c) to Form 10-Q for the
                 quarter ended June 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Forty-ninth); 4(b) to
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993 in 1-10764
                 (Fiftieth); 4(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Fifty-first); and  4(a) to Form 10-Q for
                 the quarter ended June 30, 1994 (Fifty-second)).
                 
GSU              
                 
(d)    1    --   Indenture  of  Mortgage, as amended by  certain  Supplemental
                 Indentures (B-a-I-1 in Registration No. 2-2449 (Mortgage); 7-
                 A-9 in Registration No. 2-6893 (Seventh); B to Form 8-K dated
                 September 1, 1959 (Eighteenth); B to Form 8-K dated  February
                 1,  1966  (Twenty-second); B to Form 8-K dated March 1,  1967
                 (Twenty-third);  C to Form 8-K dated March 1,  1968  (Twenty-
                 fourth); B to Form 8-K dated November 1, 1968 (Twenty-fifth);
                 B  to  Form 8-K dated April 1, 1969 (Twenty-sixth); 2-A-8  in
                 Registration  No. 2-66612 (Thirty-eighth); 4-2 to  Form  10-K
                 for  the  year  ended  December 31, 1984  in  1-2703  (Forty-
                 eighth);  4-2  to Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
                 1988  in  1-2703 (Fifty-second); 4 to Form 10-K for the  year
                 ended December 31, 1991 in 1-2703 (Fifty-third); 4 to Form 8-
                 K dated July 29, 1992 in 1-2703 (Fifth-fourth); 4 to Form 10-
                 K  dated    December 31, 1992 in 1-2703 (Fifty-fifth);  4  to
                 Form  10-Q  for  the quarter ended March 31, 1993  in  1-2703
                 (Fifty-sixth); and 4-2 to Amendment No. 9 to Registration No.
                 2-76551 (Fifty-seventh)).
                 
(d)    2    --   Indenture, dated March 21, 1939, accepting resignation of The
                 Chase  National Bank of the City of New York as  trustee  and
                 appointing   Central  Hanover  Bank  and  Trust  Company   as
                 successor trustee (B-a-1-6 in Registration No. 2-4076).
                 
(d)    3    --   Trust  Indenture for 9.72% Debentures due July 1, 1998 (4  in
                 Registration No. 33-40113).
                 
LP&L             
                 
(e)    1    --   Mortgage   and  Deed  of  Trust,  as  amended  by  forty-nine
                 Supplemental Indentures (7(d) in 2-5317 (Mortgage);  7(b)  in
                 2-7408  (First); 7(c) in 2-8636 (Second); 4(b)-3  in  2-10412
                 (Third);  4(b)-4  in  2-12264  (Fourth);  2(b)-5  in  2-12936
                 (Fifth);  D  in 70-3862 (Sixth); 2(b)-7 in 2-22340 (Seventh);
                 2(c)  in 2-24429 (Eighth); 4(c)-9 in 2-25801 (Ninth); 4(c)-10
                 in  2-26911  (Tenth);  2(c) in 2-28123  (Eleventh);  2(c)  in
                 2-34659  (Twelfth);  C  to  Rule 24  Certificate  in  70-4793
                 (Thirteenth);  2(b)-2  in  2-38378  (Fourteenth);  2(b)-2  in
                 2-39437  (Fifteenth);  2(b)-2 in 2-42523  (Sixteenth);  C  to
                 Rule  24  Certificate in 70-5242 (Seventeenth); C to Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5330  (Eighteenth);  C-1   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5449  (Nineteenth);  C-1   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5550  (Twentieth);  A-6(a)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5598  (Twenty-first);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-5711  (Twenty-second);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-5919  (Twenty-third);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6102  (Twenty-fourth);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6169  (Twenty-fifth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6278  (Twenty-sixth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6355 (Twenty-seventh);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6508  (Twenty-eighth);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6556  (Twenty-ninth);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate   in  70-6635  (Thirtieth);  C-1   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6834  (Thirty-first);  C-1  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6886  (Thirty-second);  C-1  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6993  (Thirty-third);  C-2  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate  in  70-6993  (Thirty-fourth);  C-3  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-6993 (Thirty-fifth); A-2(a)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-7166 (Thirty-sixth);  A-2(a)  in  70-7226
                 (Thirty-seventh);  C-1  to  Rule 24  Certificate  in  70-7270
                 (Thirty-eighth); 4(a) to Quarterly Report on  Form  10-Q  for
                 the  quarter  ended June 30, 1988, in 1-8474  (Thirty-ninth);
                 A-2(b)  to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7553 (Fortieth);  A-2(d)
                 to  Rule  24 Certificate in 70-7553 (Forty-first); A-3(a)  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7822 (Forty-second); A-3(b) to Rule
                 24  Certificate in 70-7822 (Forty-third); A-2(b) to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  File No. 70-7822 (Forty-fourth);  A-3(c)  to
                 Rule  24 Certificate in 70-7822 (Forty-fifth); A-2(c) to Rule
                 24  Certificate dated April 7, 1993 in 70-7822 (Forty-sixth);
                 A-3(d)  to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 4, 1993 in  70-7822
                 (Forth-seventh); A-3(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 21,  1993  in 70-7822 (Forty-eighth); and A-3(f) to  Rule  24
                 Certificate dated August 1, 1994 in 70-7822 (Forty-ninth).
                 
(e)    2    --   Facility Lease No. 1, dated as of September 1, 1989,  between
                 First  National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and  LP&L
                 (4(c)-1 in Registration No. 33-30660).
(e)    3    --   Facility Lease No. 2, dated as of September 1, 1989,  between
                 First  National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and  LP&L
                 (4(c)-2 in Registration No. 33-30660).
                 
(e)    4    --   Facility Lease No. 3, dated as of September 1, 1989,  between
                 First  National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and  LP&L
                 (4(c)-3 in Registration No. 33-30660).
                 
MP&L             
                 
(f)    1    --   Mortgage  and  Deed  of  Trust,  as  amended  by  twenty-five
                 Supplemental Indentures (7(d) in 2-5437 (Mortgage);  7(b)  in
                 2-7051  (First);  7(c)  in 2-7763 (Second);  7(d)  in  2-8484
                 (Third);  4(b)-4  in  2-10059  (Fourth);  2(b)-5  in  2-13942
                 (Fifth);  A-11  to  Form U-1 in 70-4116  (Sixth);  2(b)-7  in
                 2-23084  (Seventh); 4(c)-9 in 2-24234 (Eighth); 2(b)-9(a)  in
                 2-25502  (Ninth);  A-11(a) to Form U-1  in  70-4803  (Tenth);
                 A-12(a)  to  Form  U-1  in  70-4892  (Eleventh);  A-13(a)  to
                 Form U-1 in 70-5165 (Twelfth); A-14(a) to Form U-1 in 70-5286
                 (Thirteenth);  A-15(a)  to Form U-1 in 70-5371  (Fourteenth);
                 A-16(a) to Form U-1 in 70-5417 (Fifteenth); A-17 to Form  U-1
                 in 70-5484 (Sixteenth); 2(a)-19 in 2-54234 (Seventeenth); C-1
                 to  Rule  24 Certificate in 70-6619 (Eighteenth);  A-2(c)  to
                 Rule  24  Certificate  in  70-6672  (Nineteenth);  A-2(d)  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6672 (Twentieth); C-1(a) to Rule 24
                 Certificate  in  70-6816 (Twenty-first); C-1(a)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in 70-7020 (Twenty-second); C-1(b)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-7020 (Twenty-third); C-1(a)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate in 70-7230 (Twenty-fourth); and A-2(a) to Rule 24
                 Certificate in 70-7419 (Twenty-fifth)).
                 
(f)    2    --   Mortgage and Deed of Trust, dated as of February 1, 1988,  as
                 amended by nine Supplemental Indentures (A-2(a)-2 to Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-7461  (Mortgage);  A-2(b)-2  in   70-7461
                 (First);  A-5(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7419  (Second);
                 A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7554 (Third); A-1(b)-1 to
                 Rule  24  Certificate in 70-7737 (Fourth); A-2(b) to Rule  24
                 Certificate  dated  November 24,  1992  in  70-7914  (Fifth);
                 A-2(e)  to  Rule  24 Certificate dated January  22,  1993  in
                 70-7914 (Sixth); A-2(g) to Form U-1 in 70-7914 (Seventh);  A-
                 2(i)  to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 10, 1993  in  70-
                 7914  (Eighth); and A-2(j) to Rule 24 Certificate dated  July
                 22, 1994 in 70-7914 (Ninth)).
                 
NOPSI            
                 
(g)    1    --   Mortgage and Deed of Trust, as amended by eleven Supplemental
                 Indentures (B-3 in 2-5411 (Mortgage); 7(b) in 2-7674 (First);
                 4(a)-2  in 2-10126 (Second); 4(b) in 2-12136 (Third);  2(b)-4
                 in  2-17959 (Fourth); 2(b)-5 in 2-19807 (Fifth); D to Rule 24
                 Certificate  in  70-4023 (Sixth); 2(c) in 2-24523  (Seventh);
                 4(c)-9 in 2-26031 (Eighth); 2(a)-3 in 2-50438 (Ninth); 2(a)-3
                 in  2-62575  (Tenth); and A-2(b) to Rule  24  Certificate  in
                 70-7262 (Eleventh)).
                 
(g)    2    --   Mortgage  and  Deed of Trust, dated as of  May  1,  1987,  as
                 amended  by four Supplemental Indentures (A-2(c) to  Rule  24
                 Certificate  in  70-7350  (Mortgage);  A-5(b)  to   Rule   24
                 Certificate in 70-7350 (First); A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate
                 in  70-7448  (Second); 4(f)4 to Form 10-K for the year  ended
                 December  31, 1992 in 0-5807 (Third); and 4(a) to  Form  10-Q
                 for the quarter ended September 30, 1993 in 0-5807 (Fourth)).
                 
(10)  Material Contracts

Entergy Corporation
                 
(a)    1    --   Agreement,  dated  April  23,  1982,  among  certain   System
                 companies,  relating to System Planning and  Development  and
                 Intra-System Transactions (10(a)1 to Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    2    --   Middle   South  Utilities  System  Agency  Agreement,   dated
                 December 11, 1970 (5(a)-2 in 2-41080).
                 
(a)    3    --   Amendment, dated February 10, 1971, to Middle South Utilities
                 System  Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-4  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(a)    4    --   Amendment,  dated  May  12, 1988, to Middle  South  Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-4   in
                 2-41080).
                 
(a)    5    --   Middle  South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement,
                 dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-3 in 2-41080).
                 
(a)    6    --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1,
                 1963 (5(a)-5 in 2-41080).
                 
(a)    7    --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1972, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services (5(a)-6 in 2-43175).
                 
(a)    8    --   Amendment,  dated April 27, 1984, to Service  Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(a)-7 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    9    --   Amendment,  dated August 1, 1988, to Service  Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(a)-8 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1988, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    10   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(a)-9 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 1-3517).
                 
*(a)   11   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1992, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services.
                 
(a)    12   --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(a)    13   --   First  Amendment  to  Availability  Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 June 30, 1977 (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 24, 1977,
                 in 70-5399).
                 
(a)    14   --   Second  Amendment  to  Availability Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 June  15, 1981 (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,
                 in 70-6592).
                 
(a)    15   --   Third  Amendment  to  Availability  Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 June 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July  6,
                 1984, in 70-6985).
                 
(a)    16   --   Fourth  Amendment  to  Availability Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 June  1, 1989 (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,
                 in 70-5399).
                 
(a)    17   --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(a)    18   --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated  as of May 1, 1986, with  Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(a)    19   --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(a)    20   --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(a)    21   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F.  Ganey, as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
                 
(a)    22   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(a)    23   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    24   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    25   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    26   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17, 1993, with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(a)    27   --   Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    28   --   Capital Funds Agreement, dated June 21, 1974, between Entergy
                 Corporation  and  System Energy (C to  Rule  24  Certificate,
                 dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(a)    29   --   First  Amendment  to  Capital Funds Agreement,  dated  as  of
                 June  1, 1989 (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,
                 in 70-5399).
                 
(a)    30   --   Fourteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(a)    31   --   Fifteenth   Supplementary   Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of May 1, 1986, with  Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(a)    32   --   Sixteenth   Supplementary   Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (D  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(a)    33   --   Eighteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (D-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(a)    34   --   Nineteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (D-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
 (a)   35   --   Twenty-fourth  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of July 1, 1992,  with  United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(b)  to  Rule  24  Certificate dated  July  14,  1992  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(a)    36   --   Twenty-fifth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of October 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(b)  to  Rule 24 Certificate dated November  2,  1992  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(a)    37   --   Twenty-sixth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of October 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(c)  to  Rule 24 Certificate dated November  2,  1992  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(a)    38   --   Twenty-seventh  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement  and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of April 1, 1993, with  United  States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    39   --   Twenty-eighth  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of December 17,  1993,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(a)    40   --   Twenty-ninth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of April 1, 1994, with  United  States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 3(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(a)    41   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and
                 Assignments, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy
                 Corporation,  System Energy, Deposit Guaranty National  Bank,
                 United  States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F.  Ganey
                 (C to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8, 1989, in 70-7026).
                 
(a)    42   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and
                 Assignments, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy
                 Corporation,  System Energy, United States Trust  Company  of
                 New York and Gerard F. Ganey (C to Rule 24 Certificate, dated
                 June 8, 1989, in 70-7123).
                 
(a)    43   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement  and
                 Assignment, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between  Entergy
                 Corporation, System Energy and Chemical Bank (C  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 8, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
+(a)   44   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)-42 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1985, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    45   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
(a)    46   --   Joint  Construction,  Acquisition  and  Ownership  Agreement,
                 dated  as  of  May 1, 1980, between System Energy  and  SMEPA
                 (B-1(a) in 70-6337), as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated  as
                 of May 1, 1980 (B-1(c) in 70-6337) and Amendment No. 2, dated
                 as  of  October  31,  1980 (1 to Rule 24  Certificate,  dated
                 October 30, 1981, in 70-6337).
                 
(a)    47   --   Operating  Agreement dated as of May 1, 1980, between  System
                 Energy and SMEPA (B(2)(a) in 70-6337).
                 
(a)    48   --   Assignment, Assumption and Further Agreement No. 1, dated  as
                 of  December  1,  1988, among System Energy,  Meridian  Trust
                 Company and Stephen M. Carta, and SMEPA (B-7(c)(1) to Rule 24
                 Certificate, dated January 9, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
(a)    49   --   Assignment, Assumption and Further Agreement No. 2, dated  as
                 of  December  1,  1988, among System Energy,  Meridian  Trust
                 Company and Stephen M. Carta, and SMEPA (B-7(c)(2) to Rule 24
                 Certificate, dated January 9, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
(a)    50   --   Substitute  Power Agreement, dated as of May 1,  1980,  among
                 MP&L, System Energy and SMEPA (B(3)(a) in 70-6337).
                 
(a)    51   --   Grand  Gulf Unit No. 2 Supplementary Agreement, dated  as  of
                 February 7, 1986, between System Energy and SMEPA (10(aaa) in
                 33-4033).
                 
(a)    52   --   Compromise  and  Settlement Agreement, dated  June  4,  1982,
                 between Texaco, Inc. and LP&L (28(a) to Form 8-K, dated  June
                 4, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   53   --   Post-Retirement  Plan (10(a)37 to Form 10-K  for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1983, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    54   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between  System  Energy  and  AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L  and   NOPSI
                 (10(a)-39 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    55   --   First  Amendment to Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as  of
                 June 28, 1984, between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L and
                 NOPSI  (19  to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September  30,
                 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    56   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(a)    57   --   Middle   South   Utilities  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April 28,
                 1988 (Exhibit D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1987).
                 
(a)    58   --   First  Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle  South
                 Utilities  Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany  Income
                 Tax  Allocation Agreement (D-2 to Form U5S for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989).
                 
(a)    59   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(a)    60   --   Third  Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
(a)    61   --   Guaranty  Agreement  between Entergy  Corporation  and  AP&L,
                 dated   as  of  September  20,  1990  (B-1(a)  to   Rule   24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70-7757).
                 
(a)    62   --   Guarantee  Agreement  between Entergy Corporation  and  LP&L,
                 dated   as  of  September  20,  1990  (B-2(a)  to   Rule   24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70-7757).
                 
(a)    63   --   Guarantee  Agreement between Entergy Corporation  and  System
                 Energy,  dated as of September 20, 1990 (B-3(a)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70- 7757).
                 
(a)    64   --   Loan   Agreement  between  Entergy  Operations  and   Entergy
                 Corporation, dated as of September 20, 1990 (B-12(b) to  Rule
                 24 Certificate, dated June 15, 1990, in 70-7679).
                 
(a)    65   --   Loan Agreement between Entergy Power and Entergy Corporation,
                 dated  as  of August 28, 1990 (A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated September 6, 1990, in 70-7684).
                 
(a)    66   --   Loan   Agreement  between  Entergy  Corporation  and  Entergy
                 Systems  and  Service, Inc., dated as of  December  29,  1992
                 (A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7947).
                 
+(a)   67   --   Executive Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a) 52 to Form 10-K for the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   68   --   Entergy  Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (10(a) 54 to  Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   69   --   Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                 (A-4(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated  May  24,  1991,  in
                 70-7831).
                 
+(a)   70   --   Retired  Outside Director Benefit Plan (10(a)63 to Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1991, in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   71   --   Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Jerry D. Jackson.
                 (10(a) 67 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   72   --   Agreement  between Entergy Services, Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of
                 Entergy Corporation, and Gerald D. McInvale (10(a) 68 to Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   73   --   Supplemental Retirement Plan (10(a) 69 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   74   --   Defined  Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)53 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   75   --   Amendment  No.  1  to the Equity Ownership  Plan  of  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 71 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   76   --   Executive   Disability  Plan  of  Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)  72  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   77   --   Executive   Medical   Plan   of   Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)  73  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   78   --   Stock  Plan for Outside Directors of Entergy Corporation  and
                 Subsidiaries, as amended (10(a) 74 to Form 10-K for the  year
                 ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   79   --   Summary  Description  of Private Ownership  Vehicle  Plan  of
                 Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 75 to Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
(a)    80   --   Agreement   and   Plan  of  Reorganization  Between   Entergy
                 Corporation and Gulf States Utilities Company, dated June  5,
                 1992  (1 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 5, 1992  in
                 1-3517).
                 
+(a)   81   --   Amendment to Defined Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 81 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
+(a)   82   --   System  Executive Retirement Plan (10(a) 82 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
System           
Energy
                 
(b)    1    --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(b)    2    --   First  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 30,  1977 (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 24, 1977,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(b)    3    --   Second Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 15,  1981  (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,  in
                 70-6592).
                 
(b)    4    --   Third  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 6, 1984,
                 in 70-6985).
                 
(b)    5    --   Fourth Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(b)    6    --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(b)    7    --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of  New York, Malcolm J. Hood, and Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank,  as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24  Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(b)    8    --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(b)    9    --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(b)    10   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
 (b)   11   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(b)    12   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    13   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    14   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    15   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17, 1993, with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(b)    16   --   Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    17   --   Capital Funds Agreement, dated June 21, 1974, between Entergy
                 Corporation  and  System Energy (C to  Rule  24  Certificate,
                 dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(b)    18   --   First Amendment to Capital Funds Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(b)    19   --   Fourteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(b)    20   --   Fifteenth   Supplementary   Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of May 1, 1986, with  Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(b)    21   --   Sixteenth   Supplementary   Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (D  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(b)    22   --   Eighteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (D-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(b)    23   --   Nineteenth   Supplementary  Capital   Funds   Agreement   and
                 Assignment, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (D-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(b)    24   --   Twenty-fourth  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of July 1, 1992,  with  United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate dated  July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(b)    25   --   Twenty-fifth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of October 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(b)  to  Rule 24 Certificate dated November 2,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(b)    26   --   Twenty-sixth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated as of October 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-3(c)  to  Rule 24 Certificate dated November 2,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(b)    27   --   Twenty-seventh  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement  and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of April 1, 1993, with  United  States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    28   --   Twenty-eighth  Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment,  dated  as of December 17,  1993,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(b)    29   --   Twenty-ninth   Supplementary  Capital  Funds  Agreement   and
                 Assignment;  dated  as of April 1, 1994, with  United  States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(b)    30   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and
                 Assignments, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy
                 Corporation,  System Energy, Deposit Guaranty National  Bank,
                 United  States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,
                 as Trustees (C to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8, 1989, in
                 70-7026).
                 
(b)    31   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and
                 Assignments, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy
                 Corporation,  System Energy, United States Trust  Company  of
                 New  York  and  Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (C  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 8, 1989, in 70-7123).
                 
(b)    32   --   First Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement  and
                 Assignment, dated as of June 1, 1989, by and between  Entergy
                 Corporation, System Energy and Chemical Bank (C  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 8, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
(b)    33   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
(b)    34   --   Joint  Construction,  Acquisition  and  Ownership  Agreement,
                 dated  as  of  May 1, 1980, between System Energy  and  SMEPA
                 (B-1(a) in 70-6337), as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated  as
                 of May 1, 1980 (B-1(c) in 70-6337) and Amendment No. 2, dated
                 as  of  October  31,  1980 (1 to Rule 24  Certificate,  dated
                 October 30, 1981, in 70-6337).
                 
(b)    35   --   Operating Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1980, between  System
                 Energy and SMEPA (B(2)(a) in 70-6337).
                 
(b)    36   --   Installment  Sale  Agreement, dated as of  December  1,  1983
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi  (B-1
                 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).
                 
(b)    37   --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1984, between
                 System  Energy  and  Claiborne County,  Mississippi  (B-2  to
                 Second Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6913).
                 
(b)    38   --   Installment  Sale  Agreement, dated as of December  1,  1984,
                 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi  (B-1
                 to First Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).
                 
(b)    39   --   Installment  Sale  Agreement, dated  as  of  June  15,  1985,
                 between  System  Energy  and  Claiborne  County,  Mississippi
                 (B-1(b) to Third Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7026).
                 
(b)    40   --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986,  between
                 System  Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi  (B-1(b)  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7158).
                 
(b)    41   --   Facility  Lease No. 1, dated as of December 1, 1988,  between
                 Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Stephen J. Kaba,
                 successor),  as Owner Trustees, and System Energy  (B-2(c)(1)
                 to  Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as
                 supplemented by Lease Supplement No. 1 dated as of  April  1,
                 1989 (B-22(b) (1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 21, 1989
                 in 70-7561) and Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of January 1,
                 1994 (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994 in
                 70-8215).
                 
(b)    42   --   Facility  Lease No. 2, dated as of December 1,  1988  between
                 Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Stephen J. Kaba,
                 successor),  as Owner Trustees, and System Energy  (B-2(c)(2)
                 to  Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as
                 supplemented by Lease Supplement No. 1 dated as of  April  1,
                 1989 (B-22(b) (2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 21, 1989
                 in 70-7561) and Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of January 1,
                 1994 (B-4(d) Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994 in 70-
                 8215).
                 
  (b)  43   --   Assignment, Assumption and Further Agreement No. 1, dated  as
                 of  December  1,  1988, among System Energy,  Meridian  Trust
                 Company and Stephen M. Carta, and SMEPA (B-7(c)(1) to Rule 24
                 Certificate, dated January 9, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
(b)    44   --   Assignment, Assumption and Further Agreement No. 2, dated  as
                 of  December  1,  1988, among System Energy,  Meridian  Trust
                 Company and Stephen M. Carta, and SMEPA (B-7(c)(2) to Rule 24
                 Certificate, dated January 9, 1989, in 70-7561).
                 
(b)    45   --   Collateral  Trust  Indenture, dated as of  January  1,  1994,
                 among  System  Energy, GG1B Funding Corporation  and  Bankers
                 Trust  Company,  as  Trustee (A-3(e) to Rule  24  Certificate
                 dated  January  31,  1994, in 70-8215),  as  supplemented  by
                 Supplemental  Indenture No. 1 dated January 1, 1994,  (A-3(f)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994, in 70-8215).
                 
(b)    46   --   Substitute  Power Agreement, dated as of May 1,  1980,  among
                 MP&L, System Energy and SMEPA (B(3)(a) in 70-6337).
                 
(b)    47   --   Grand  Gulf Unit No. 2 Supplementary Agreement, dated  as  of
                 February 7, 1986, between System Energy and SMEPA (10(aaa) in
                 33-4033).
                 
(b)    48   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between  System  Energy  and  AP&L,  LP&L,  MP&L  and   NOPSI
                 (10(a)-39 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(b)    49   --   First  Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as
                 of  June 28, 1984, between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L
                 and   NOPSI   (19   to  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter   ended
                 September 30, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(b)    50   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(b)    51   --   Fuel  Lease,  dated as of March 3, 1989, between  River  Fuel
                 Funding Company #3, Inc. and System Energy (B-1(b) to Rule 24
                 Certificate, dated March 3, 1989, in 70-7604).
                 
(b)    52   --   Sales  Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974,  between  System
                 Energy  and  MP&L (D to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  June  26,
                 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(b)    53   --   Service Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between  System
                 Energy  and  MP&L (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  June  26,
                 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(b)    54   --   Partial Termination Agreement, dated as of December 1,  1986,
                 between  System Energy and MP&L (A-2 to Rule 24  Certificate,
                 dated January 8, 1987, in 70-5399).
                 
(b)    55   --   Middle   South  Utilities,  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April 28,
                 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1987).
                 
(b)    56   --   First  Amendment, dated January 1, 1990 to the  Middle  South
                 Utilities  Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany  Income
                 Tax  Allocation Agreement (D-2 to Form U5S for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989).
                 
(b)    57   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(b)    58   --   Third  Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
(b)    59   --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of July 16,
                 1974,  as amended (10(b)-43 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1988, in 1-9067).
                 
(b)    60   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(b)-45 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 1-9067).
                 
(b)    61   --   Operating  Agreement  between Entergy Operations  and  System
                 Energy,  dated  as  of  June  6,  1990  (B-3(b)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 15, 1990, in 70-7679).
                 
(b)    62   --   Guarantee  Agreement between Entergy Corporation  and  System
                 Energy,  dated as of September 20, 1990 (B-3(a)  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70-7757).
                 
+(b)   63   --   Agreement between System Energy and Donald C. Hintz  (10(b)47
                 to  Form  10-K  for  the  year ended December  31,  1991,  in
                 1-9067).
                 
+(b)   64   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)-42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1985
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(b)   65   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Services and Gerald  D.  McInvale
                 (10(a)-69 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
AP&L             
                 
(c)    1    --   Agreement, dated April 23, 1982, among AP&L and certain other
                 System companies, relating to System Planning and Development
                 and  Intra-System Transactions (10(a) 1 to Form 10-K for  the
                 fiscal year ended December 31, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(c)    2    --   Middle   South  Utilities  System  Agency  Agreement,   dated
                 December 11, 1970 (5(a)2 in 2-41080).
                 
(c)    3    --   Amendment, dated February 10, 1971, to Middle South Utilities
                 System  Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-4  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    4    --   Amendment,  dated  May  12, 1988, to Middle  South  Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a) 4   in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    5    --   Middle  South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement,
                 dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-3 in 2-41080).
                 
(c)    6    --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1,
                 1963 (5(a)-5 in 2-41080).
                 
(c)    7    --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1972, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services (5(a)- 6 in 2-43175).
                 
(c)    8    --   Amendment,  dated April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement,  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(a)- 7 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(c)    9    --   Amendment,  dated August 1, 1988, to Service  Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(c)- 8 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1988, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    10   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(c)-9 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 1-10764).
                 
*(c)   11   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1992, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services.
                 
(c)    12   --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(c)    13   --   First  Amendment to Availability Agreement,  dated  June  30,
                 1977  (B  to  Rule 24 Certificate, dated June  24,  1977,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(c)    14   --   Second Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 15,  1981  (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,  in
                 70-6592).
                 
(c)    15   --   Third  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 6, 1984,
                 in 70-6985).
                 
(c)    16   --   Fourth Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(c)    17   --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(c)    18   --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated  as of May 1, 1986, with  Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New York,  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(c)    19   --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(c)    20   --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(c)    21   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(c)    22   --   Twentieth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of November 15, 1987, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-1  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated December  1,  1987,  in
                 70-7382).
                 
(c)    23   --   Twenty-first  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated as of December 1,  1987,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees (C-2 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated December 1, 1987,
                 in 70-7382).
                 
(c)    24   --   Twenty-third  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of January 11, 1991,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated January
                 23, 1991, in 70-7561).
                 
(c)    25   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(c)    26   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(c)    27   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(c)    28   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(c)    29   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17, 1993, with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(c)    30        Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(c)    31   --   Agreement, dated August 20, 1954, between AP&L and the United
                 States of America (SPA)(13(h) in 2-11467).
                 
(c)    32   --   Amendment,  dated  April 19, 1955, to the  United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-2  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    33   --   Amendment,  dated  January 3, 1964, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-3  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    34   --   Amendment, dated September 5, 1968, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-4  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    35   --   Amendment, dated November 19, 1970, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-5  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    36   --   Amendment,  dated  July 18, 1961, to  the  United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-6  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    37   --   Amendment, dated December 27, 1961, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-7  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    38   --   Amendment,  dated January 25, 1968, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-8  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    39   --   Amendment,  dated October 14, 1971, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20,  1954  (5(d)-9  in
                 2-43175).
                 
(c)    40   --   Amendment,  dated January 10, 1977, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract, dated August 20, 1954  (5(d)-10  in
                 2-60233).
                 
(c)    41   --   Agreement,  dated May 14, 1971, between AP&L and  the  United
                 States of America (SPA) (5(e) in 2-41080).
                 
(c)    42   --   Amendment,  dated January 10, 1977, to the United  States  of
                 America  (SPA)  Contract,  dated  May  14,  1971  (5(e)-1  in
                 2-60233).
                 
(c)    43   --   Contract,  dated  May 28, 1943, Amendment to Contract,  dated
                 July 21, 1949, and Supplement to Amendment to Contract, dated
                 December  30,  1949,  between AP&L and McKamie  Gas  Cleaning
                 Company; Agreements, dated as of September 30, 1965,  between
                 AP&L and former stockholders of McKamie Gas Cleaning Company;
                 and  Letter Agreement, dated June 22, 1966, by Humble  Oil  &
                 Refining Company accepted by AP&L on June 24, 1966 (5(k)-7 in
                 2-41080).
                 
(c)    44   --   Agreement, dated April 3, 1972, between Entergy Services  and
                 Gulf United Nuclear Fuels Corporation (5(l)-3 in 2-46152).
                 
(c)    45   --   Fuel Lease, dated as of December 22, 1988, between River Fuel
                 Trust #1 and AP&L (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7571).
                 
(c)    46   --   White  Bluff Operating Agreement, dated June 27, 1977,  among
                 AP&L  and Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and  City
                 Water  and  Light  Plant of the City of  Jonesboro,  Arkansas
                 (B-2(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated June  30,  1977,  in
                 70-6009).
                 
(c)    47   --   White  Bluff Ownership Agreement, dated June 27, 1977,  among
                 AP&L  and Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and  City
                 Water  and  Light  Plant of the City of  Jonesboro,  Arkansas
                 (B-1(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated June  30,  1977,  in
                 70-6009).
                 
(c)    48   --   Agreement,  dated  June 29, 1979, between AP&L  and  City  of
                 Conway, Arkansas (5(r)-3 in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    49   --   Transmission  Agreement, dated August 2, 1977,  between  AP&L
                 and  City  Water  and Light Plant of the City  of  Jonesboro,
                 Arkansas (5(r)-3 in 2-60233).
                 
(c)    50   --   Power  Coordination,  Interchange  and  Transmission  Service
                 Agreement,  dated  as  of  June 27,  1977,  between  Arkansas
                 Electric   Cooperative  Corporation  and  AP&L   (5(r)-4   in
                 2-60233).
                 
(c)    51   --   Independence  Steam  Electric  Station  Operating  Agreement,
                 dated  July  31,  1979,  among  AP&L  and  Arkansas  Electric
                 Cooperative Corporation and City Water and Light Plant of the
                 City  of  Jonesboro,  Arkansas and City of  Conway,  Arkansas
                 (5(r)-6 in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    52   --   Amendment, dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence  Steam
                 Electric  Station Operating Agreement (10(c) 51 to Form  10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1984, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    53   --   Independence  Steam  Electric  Station  Ownership  Agreement,
                 dated  July  31,  1979,  among  AP&L  and  Arkansas  Electric
                 Cooperative Corporation and City Water and Light Plant of the
                 City  of  Jonesboro,  Arkansas and City of  Conway,  Arkansas
                 (5(r)-7 in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    54   --   Amendment, dated December 28, 1979, to the Independence Steam
                 Electric Station Ownership Agreement (5(r)-7(a) in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    55   --   Amendment, dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence  Steam
                 Electric  Station Ownership Agreement (10(c) 54 to Form  10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1984, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    56   --   Owner's Agreement, dated November 28, 1984, among AP&L, MP&L,
                 other co-owners of the Independence Station (10(c) 55 to Form
                 10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1984,  in
                 1-10764).
                 
(c)    57   --   Consent,  Agreement and Assumption, dated December  4,  1984,
                 among AP&L, MP&L, other co-owners of the Independence Station
                 and  United  States  Trust Company of New  York,  as  Trustee
                 (10(c) 56 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1984, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    58   --   Power  Coordination,  Interchange  and  Transmission  Service
                 Agreement, dated as of July 31, 1979, between AP&L  and  City
                 Water  and  Light  Plant of the City of  Jonesboro,  Arkansas
                 (5(r)-8 in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    59   --   Power  Coordination, Interchange and Transmission  Agreement,
                 dated  as  of June 29, 1979, between City of Conway, Arkansas
                 and AP&L (5(r)-9 in 2-66235).
                 
(c)    60   --   Agreement,  dated June 21, 1979, between AP&L and  Reeves  E.
                 Ritchie  ((10)(b)-90 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
                 December 31, 1980, in 1-10764).
                 
 (c)   61   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
+(c)   62   --   Post-Retirement Plan (10(b) 55 to Form 10-K  for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1983, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    63   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  (10(a)
                 39  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982,
                 in 1-3517).
                 
(c)    64   --   First  Amendment to Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as  of
                 June  28, 1984, between System Energy, AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,  and
                 NOPSI  (19  to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September  30,
                 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(c)    65   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(c)    66   --   Contract For Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level
                 Radioactive Waste, dated June 30, 1983, among the DOE, System
                 Fuels  and  AP&L (10(b)-57 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1983, in 1-10764).
                 
(c)    67   --   Middle   South  Utilities,  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April 28,
                 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1987).
                 
(c)    68   --   First  Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle  South
                 Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany  Income
                 Tax  Allocation Agreement (D-2 to Form U5S for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989).
                 
(c)    69   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(c)    70   --   Third Amendment dated January 1, 1994, to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
(c)    71   --   Assignment of Coal Supply Agreement, dated December 1,  1987,
                 between  System  Fuels and AP&L (B to Rule 24 letter  filing,
                 dated November 10, 1987, in 70-5964).
                 
(c)    72   --   Coal  Supply  Agreement,  dated December  22,  1976,  between
                 System  Fuels and Antelope Coal Company (B-1 in 70-5964),  as
                 amended  by  First  Amendment (A to Rule  24  Certificate  in
                 70-5964); Second Amendment (A to Rule 24 letter filing, dated
                 December  16,  1983, in 70-5964); and Third Amendment  (A  to
                 Rule 24 letter filing, dated November 10, 1987 in 70-5964).
                 
(c)    73   --   Operating  Agreement  between Entergy  Operations  and  AP&L,
                 dated  as  of  June 6, 1990 (B-1(b) to Rule  24  Certificate,
                 dated June 15, 1990, in 70-7679).
                 
(c)    74   --   Guaranty  Agreement  between Entergy  Corporation  and  AP&L,
                 dated   as  of  September  20,  1990  (B-1(a)  to   Rule   24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70-7757).
                 
(c)    75   --   Agreement  for  Purchase  and Sale  of  Independence  Unit  2
                 between  AP&L and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28,  1990
                 (B-3(c)  to Rule 24 Certificate, dated September 6, 1990,  in
                 70-7684).
                 
(c)    76   --   Agreement  for  Purchase and Sale of Ritchie Unit  2  between
                 AP&L  and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28, 1990  (B-4(d)
                 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated September 6, 1990, in 70-7684).
                 
(c)    77   --   Ritchie Steam Electric Station Unit No. 2 Operating Agreement
                 between  AP&L and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28,  1990
                 (B-5(a)  to Rule 24 Certificate, dated September 6, 1990,  in
                 70-7684).
                 
(c)    78   --   Ritchie Steam Electric Station Unit No. 2 Ownership Agreement
                 between  AP&L and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28,  1990
                 (B-6(a)  to Rule 24 Certificate, dated September 6, 1990,  in
                 70-7684).
                 
(c)    79   --   Power  Coordination,  Interchange  and  Transmission  Service
                 Agreement  between  Entergy  Power  and  AP&L,  dated  as  of
                 August  28,  1990 (10(c)-71 to Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 1-10764).
                 
+(c)   80   --   Executive Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)52 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   81   --   Entergy  Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (10(a)54  to  Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   82   --   Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                 (A-4(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated  May  24,  1991,  in
                 70-7831).
                 
+(c)   83   --   Agreement between Arkansas Power & Light Company and R. Drake
                 Keith. (10(c) 78 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                 1992 in 1-10764).
                 
+(c)   84   --   Supplemental  Retirement Plan (10(a)69 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   85   --   Defined  Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)53 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   86   --   Amendment  No.  1  to the Equity Ownership  Plan  of  Entergy
                 Corporation  and Subsidiaries (10(a)71 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   87   --   Executive   Disability  Plan  of  Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)72  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   88   --   Executive   Medical   Plan   of   Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)73  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   89   --   Stock  Plan for Outside Directors of Entergy Corporation  and
                 Subsidiaries, as amended (10(a)74 to Form 10-K for  the  year
                 ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   90   --   Summary  Description  of Private Ownership  Vehicle  Plan  of
                 Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)75 to  Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   91   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)-42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1985
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   92   --   Agreement  between Entergy Corporation and Jerry  D.  Jackson
                 (10(a)-68 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   93   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Services and Gerald  D.  McInvale
                 (10(a)-69 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(c)   94   --   Agreement between System Energy and Donald C. Hintz (10(b)-47
                 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 in 1-9067).
                 
+(c)   95   --   Summary Description of Retired Outside Director Benefit Plan.
                 (10(c)  90 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  1992
                 in 1-10764).
                 
+(c)   96   --   Amendment to Defined Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 81 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
+(c)   97   --   System  Executive Retirement Plan (10(a) 82 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
(c)    98   --   Loan  Agreement  dated  June  15,  1993,  between  AP&L   and
                 Independence   Country,  Arkansas  (B-1  (a)   to   Rule   24
                 Certificate dated July 9, 1993 in 70-8171).
                 
(c)    99   --   Installment  Sale  Agreement dated January 1,  1991,  between
                 AP&L  and  Pope  Country,  Arkansas  (B-1  (b)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate dated January 24, 1991 in 70-7802).
                 
(c)    100  --   Installment  Sale Agreement dated November 1,  1990,  between
                 AP&L  and  Pope  Country,  Arkansas  (B-1  (a)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate dated November 30, 1990 in70-7802).
                 
(c)    101  --   Installment  Sale Agreement dated December 1,  1985,  between
                 AP&L   and  Pople  Country,  Arkansas  (B-1(a)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate dated December 19, 1985 in 70-7127).
                 
(c)    102  --   Loan  Agreement  dated  June  15,  1994,  between  AP&L   and
                 Jefferson  County,  Arkansas (B-1(a) to Rule  24  Certificate
                 dated June 30, 1994 in 70-8405).
                 
(c)    103  --   Loan  Agreement dated June 15, 1994, between  AP&L  and  Pope
                 County, Arkansas (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-8405).
                 
GSU              
                 
(d)    1    --   Guaranty  Agreement,  dated July 1,  1976,  between  GSU  and
                 American  Bank and Trust Company (C and D to Form 8-K,  dated
                 August 6, 1976 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    2    --   Lease  of  Railroad Equipment, dated as of December 1,  1981,
                 between The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company as Lessor  and
                 GSU  as Lessee and First Supplement, dated as of December 31,
                 1981,  relating to 605 One Hundred-Ton Unit Train Steel  Coal
                 Porter  Cars  (4-12 to Form 10-K for the year ended  December
                 31, 1981 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    3    --   Guaranty  Agreement, dated August 1, 1992,  between  GSU  and
                 Hibernia National Bank, relating to Pollution Control Revenue
                 Refunding  Bonds of the Industrial Development Board  of  the
                 Parish of Calcasieu, Inc. (Louisiana) (10-1 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    4    --   Guaranty  Agreement, dated January 1, 1993, between  GSU  and
                 Hancock  Bank  of  Louisiana, relating to  Pollution  Control
                 Revenue  Refunding  Bonds  of the  Parish  of  Pointe  Coupee
                 (Louisiana)  (10-2 to Form 10-K for the year  ended  December
                 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    5    --   Deposit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1983 between  GSU,
                 Morgan  Guaranty Trust Co. as Depositary and the  Holders  of
                 Despositary  Receipts,  relating  to  the  Issue  of  900,000
                 Depositary Preferred Shares, each representing 1/2  share  of
                 Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E-$100 Par
                 Value (4-17 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983
                 in 1-2703).
                 
 (d)   6    --   Letter  of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated December
                 27,  1985,  between  GSU  and  Westpack  Banking  Corporation
                 relating  to  Variable Rate Demand Pollution Control  Revenue
                 Bonds  of  the Parish of West Feliciana, State of  Louisiana,
                 Series  1985-D (4-26 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
                 31,  1985 in 1-2703) and Letter Agreement amending same dated
                 October  20,  1992  (10-3 to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    7    --   Reimbursement and Loan Agreement, dated as of April 23, 1986,
                 by  and  between GSU and The Long-Term Credit Bank of  Japan,
                 Ltd.,  relating  to  Multiple Rate Demand  Pollution  Control
                 Revenue  Bonds  of  the Parish of West  Feliciana,  State  of
                 Louisiana, Series 1985 (4-26 to Form 10-K, for the year ended
                 December  31,  1986 in 1-2703) and Letter Agreement  amending
                 same,  dated February 19, 1993 (10 to Form 10-K for the  year
                 ended December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    8    --   Agreement  effective February 1, 1964, between  Sabine  River
                 Authority, State of Louisiana, and Sabine River Authority  of
                 Texas, and GSU, Central Louisiana Electric Company, Inc., and
                 Louisiana Power & Light Company, as supplemented (B to Form 8-
                 K, dated May 6, 1964, A to Form 8-K, dated October 5, 1967, A
                 to  Form  8-K,  dated May 5, 1969, and A to Form  8-K,  dated
                 December 1, 1969, in 1-2708).
                 
(d)    9    --   Joint   Ownership   Participation  and  Operating   Agreement
                 regarding  River Bend Unit 1 Nuclear Plant, dated August  20,
                 1979,  between  GSU, Cajun, and SRG&T; Power  Interconnection
                 Agreement  with Cajun, dated June 26, 1978, and  approved  by
                 the REA on August 16, 1979, between GSU and Cajun; and Letter
                 Agreement  regarding CEPCO buybacks, dated August  28,  1979,
                 between GSU and Cajun (2, 3, and 4, respectively, to Form  8-
                 K, dated September 7, 1979, in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    10   --   Ground   Lease,  dated  August  15,  1980,  between  Statmont
                 Associates Limited Partnership (Statmont) and GSU, as amended
                 (3 to Form 8-K, dated August 19, 1980, and A-3-b to Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended September 30, 1983 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    11   --   Lease  and Sublease Agreement, dated August 15, 1980, between
                 Statmont and GSU, as amended (4 to Form 8-K, dated August 19,
                 1980,  and A-3-c to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                 30, 1983 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    12   --   Lease  Agreement,  dated  September  18,  1980,  between  BLC
                 Corporation and GSU (1 to Form 8-K, dated October 6, 1980  in
                 1-2703).
                 
(d)    13   --   Joint Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement for Big
                 Cajun,  between GSU, Cajun Electric Power Cooperative,  Inc.,
                 and  Sam Rayburn G&T, Inc, dated November 14, 1980 (6 to Form
                 8-K,  dated  January 29, 1981 in 1-2703);  Amendment  No.  1,
                 dated  December  12, 1980 (7 to Form 8-K, dated  January  29,
                 1981 in 1-2703); Amendment No. 2, dated December 29, 1980  (8
                 to Form 8-K, dated January 29, 1981 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    14   --   Agreement  of  Joint Ownership Participation  between  SRMPA,
                 SRG&T  and GSU, dated June 6, 1980, for Nelson Station,  Coal
                 Unit #6, as amended (8 to Form 8-K, dated June 11, 1980, A-2-
                 b  to Form 10-Q For the quarter ended June 30, 1982; and 10-1
                 to Form 8-K, dated February 19, 1988 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    15   --   Agreements  between Southern Company and GSU, dated  February
                 25,   1982,  which  cover  the  construction  of  a  140-mile
                 transmission  line  to connect the two systems,  purchase  of
                 power and use of transmission facilities (10-31 to Form 10-K,
                 for the year ended December 31, 1981 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   16   --   Executive Income Security Plan, effective October 1, 1980, as
                 amended,  continued and completely restated effective  as  of
                 March  1, 1991 (10-2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
                 31, 1991 in 1-2703).
                 
 (d)   17   --   Joint Ownership Participation Agreement for Big Cajun between
                 GSU, Cajun, and SRG&T, dated November 14, 1980 (6 to Form  8-
                 K, dated January 29, 1981 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    18   --   Amendment   No.   1  to  the  Joint  Ownership  Participation
                 Agreement for Big Cajun, between GSU, Cajun, and SRG&T, dated
                 December 12, 1980 (7 to Form 8-K, dated January 29, 1981 in 1-
                 2703).
                 
(d)    19   --   Amendment   No.   2  to  the  Joint  Ownership  Participation
                 Agreement for Big Cajun, between GSU, Cajun, and SRG&T, dated
                 December 29, 1980 (8 to Form 8-K, dated January 29, 1981 in 1-
                 2703).
                 
(d)    20   --   Transmission Facilities Agreement between GSU and Mississippi
                 Power  Company, dated February 28, 1982, and Amendment, dated
                 May  12, 1982 (A-2-c to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
                 31, 1982 in 1-2703) and Amendment, dated December 6, 1983 (10-
                 43  to Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 1983 in  1-
                 2703).
                 
(d)    21   --   Lease  Agreement dated as of June 29, 1983, between  GSU  and
                 City  National  Bank  of Baton Rouge, as  Owner  Trustee,  in
                 connection  with  the  leasing of a  Simulator  and  Training
                 Center  for  River Bend Unit 1 (A-2-a to Form  10-Q  for  the
                 quarter  ended June 30, 1983 in 1-2703) and Amendment,  dated
                 December  14,  1984 (10-55 to Form 10-K, for the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1984 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    22   --   Participation  Agreement, dated as of June  29,  1983,  among
                 GSU, City National Bank of Baton Rouge, PruFunding, Inc. Bank
                 of  the  Southwest National Association, Houston and  Bankers
                 Life  Company, in connection with the leasing of a  Simulator
                 and  Training Center of River Bend Unit 1 (A-2-b to Form 10-Q
                 for the quarter ended June 30, 1983 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    23   --   Tax  Indemnity Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1983,  between
                 GSU and Prufunding, Inc., in connection with the leasing of a
                 Simulator and Training Center for River Bend Unit I (A-2-c to
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    24   --   Agreement  to Lease, dated as of August 28, 1985, among  GSU,
                 City  National  Bank  of Baton Rouge, as Owner  Trustee,  and
                 Prudential Interfunding Corp., as Trustor, in connection with
                 the  leasing  of  improvement to  a  Simulator  and  Training
                 Facility for River Bend Unit I (10-69 to Form 10-K,  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1985 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    25   --   First  Amended Power Sales Agreement, dated December 1,  1985
                 between  Sabine  River  Authority, State  of  Louisiana,  and
                 Sabine  River  Authority, State of Texas,  and  GSU,  Central
                 Louisiana  Electric Co., Inc., and Louisiana Power and  Light
                 Company  (10-72 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,
                 1985 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   26   --   Deferred  Compensation Plan for Directors of GSU and  Varibus
                 Corporation,  as  amended  January  8,  1987,  and  effective
                 January  1,  1987  (10-77 to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December  31, 1986 in 1-2703).  Amendment dated  December  4,
                 1991 (10-3 to Amendment No. 8 in Registration No. 2-76551).
                 
+(d)   27   --   Trust  Agreement  for Deferred Payments to  be  made  by  GSU
                 pursuant  to  the  Executive Income  Security  Plan,  by  and
                 between GSU and Bankers Trust Company, effective November  1,
                 1986 (10-78 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986
                 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   28   --   Trust   Agreement  for  Deferred  Installments  under   GSU's
                 Management  Incentive  Compensation Plan  and  Administrative
                 Guidelines  by  and  between GSU and Bankers  Trust  Company,
                 effective June 1, 1986 (10-79 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1986 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   29   --   Nonqualified   Deferred  Compensation  Plan   for   Officers,
                 Nonemployee Directors and Designated Key Employees, effective
                 December  1,  1985,  as  amended,  continued  and  completely
                 restated effective as of March 1, 1991 (10-3 to Amendment No.
                 8 in Registration No. 2-76551).
                 
+(d)   30   --   Trust   Agreement  for  GSU's  Nonqualified   Directors   and
                 Designated  Key Employees by and between GSU and  First  City
                 Bank,   Texas-Beaumont,  N.A.  (now  Texas  Commerce   Bank),
                 effective July 1, 1991 (10-4 to Form 10-K for the year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    31   --   Lease  Agreement,  dated as of June 29,  1987,  among  GSG&T,
                 Inc.,  and  GSU related to the leaseback of the  Lewis  Creek
                 generating  station (10-83 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1988 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    32   --   Nuclear Fuel Lease Agreement between GSU and River Bend  Fuel
                 Services, Inc. to lease the fuel for River Bend Unit 1, dated
                 February  7,  1989  (10-64 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1988 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    33   --   Trust  and  Investment Management Agreement between  GSU  and
                 Morgan Guaranty and Trust Company of New York with respect to
                 decommissioning  funds authorized to  be  collected  by  GSU,
                 dated  March 15, 1989 (10-66 to Form 10-K for the year  ended
                 December 31, 1988 in 1-2703).
                 
*(d)   34   --   Credit Agreement, dated as of December 29, 1993, among  River
                 Bend  Fuel  Services,  Inc.  and Certain  Commercial  Lending
                 Institutions and CIBC Inc. as Agent for the Lenders.
                 
(d)    35   --   Partnership  Agreement  by and among Conoco  Inc.,  and  GSU,
                 CITGO Petroleum Corporation and Vista Chemical Company, dated
                 April  28,  1988  (10-67  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1988 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   36   --   Gulf  States  Utilities  Company Executive  Continuity  Plan,
                 dated  January 18, 1991 (10-6 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   37   --   Trust  Agreement for GSU's Executive Continuity Plan, by  and
                 between  GSU and First City Bank, Texas-Beaumont,  N.A.  (now
                 Texas Commerce Bank), effective May 20, 1991 (10-5 to Form 10-
                 K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   38   --   Gulf  States  Utilities Board of Directors' Retirement  Plan,
                 dated February 15, 1991 (10-8 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1990 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   39   --   Gulf  States Utilities Company Employees' Trustee  Retirement
                 Plan  effective  July  1,  1955  as  amended,  continued  and
                 completely restated effective January 1, 1989; and  Amendment
                 No.1  effective January 1, 1993 (10-6 to Form  10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    40   --   Agreement  and  Plan of Reorganization, dated June  5,  1992,
                 between  GSU  and Entergy Corporation (2 to Form  8-K,  dated
                 June 8, 1992 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   41   --   Gulf  States Utilities Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                 as  amended,  continued,  and completely  restated  effective
                 January  1, 1984, and January 1, 1985 (A to Form 11-K,  dated
                 December 31, 1985 in 1-2703).
                 
+(d)   42   --   Trust  Agreement  under  the Gulf  States  Utilities  Company
                 Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan, dated  December  30,  1976,
                 between GSU and the Louisiana National Bank, as Trustee  (2-A
                 to Registration No. 2-62395).
                 
+(d)   43   --   Letter Agreement dated September 7, 1977 between GSU and  the
                 Trustee, delegating certain of the Trustee's functions to the
                 ESOP Committee (2-B to Registration Statement No. 2-62395).
                 
+(d)   44   --   Gulf  States  Utilities  Company  Employees  Thrift  Plan  as
                 amended,  continued and completely restated effective  as  of
                 January 1, 1992 (28-1 to Amendment No. 8 to Registration  No.
                 2-76551).
                 
+(d)   45   --   Restatement   of  Trust  Agreement  under  the  Gulf   States
                 Utilities  Company Employees Thrift Plan, reflecting  changes
                 made  through  January 1, 1989, between GSU  and  First  City
                 Bank,  Texas-Beaumont, N.A., (now Texas Commerce Bank  ),  as
                 Trustee (2-A to Form 8-K dated October 20, 1989 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    46   --   Operating Agreement between Entergy Operations and GSU, dated
                 as of December 31, 1993 (B-2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-
                 8059).
                 
(d)    47   --   Guarantee  Agreement  between Entergy  Corporation  and  GSU,
                 dated  as of December 31, 1993 (B-5(a) to Rule 24 Certificate
                 in 70-8059).
                 
(d)    48   --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of December
                 31, 1993 (B-6(c) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-8059).
                 
+(d)   49   --   Amendment to Employment Agreement between J. L. Donnelly  and
                 GSU,  dated December 22, 1993 (10(d) 57 to Form 10-K for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    50   --   Amendment  to  Letter  of Credit and Reimbursement  Agreement
                 between GSU and Westpac Banking Corporation (10(d) 58 to Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-2703).
                 
(d)    51   --   Third   Amendment,   dated  January  1,  1994,   to   Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year  ended
                 December 31, 1993).
                 
(d)    52   --   Refunding  Agreement  between GSU and West  Feliciana  Parish
                 (dated  December  20,  1994 (B-12(a) to Rule  24  Certificate
                 dated December 30, 1994 in 70-8375).
                 
LP&L             
                 
(e)    1    --   Agreement, dated April 23, 1982, among LP&L and certain other
                 System companies, relating to System Planning and Development
                 and  Intra-System Transactions (10(a) 1 to Form 10-K for  the
                 fiscal year ended December 31, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(e)    2    --   Middle   South  Utilities  System  Agency  Agreement,   dated
                 December 11, 1970 (5(a)-2 in 2-41080).
                 
(e)    3    --   Amendment,  dated as of February 10, 1971,  to  Middle  South
                 Utilities  System Agency Agreement, dated December  11,  1970
                 (5(a)-4 in 2-41080).
                 
(e)    4    --   Amendment,  dated  May  12, 1988, to Middle  South  Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a) 4   in
                 2-41080).
                 
(e)    5    --   Middle  South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement,
                 dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-3 in 2-41080).
                 
(e)    6    --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1,
                 1963 (5(a)-5 in 2-42523).
                 
(e)    7    --   Amendment, dated as of January 1, 1972, to Service  Agreement
                 with Entergy Services (4(a)-6 in 2-45916).
                 
(e)    8    --   Amendment,  dated as of April 27, 1984, to Service  Agreement
                 with  Entergy Services (10(a) 7 to Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(e)    9    --   Amendment,  dated as of August 1, 1988, to Service  Agreement
                 with  Entergy Services (10(d)-8 to Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1988, in 1-8474).
                 
(e)    10   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(d)-9 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 1-8474).
                 
*(e)   11   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1992, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services.
                 
(e)    12   --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(e)    13   --   First  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 30,  1977 (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 30, 1977,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(e)    14   --   Second Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 15,  1981  (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,  in
                 70-6592).
                 
(e)    15   --   Third  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 6, 1984,
                 in 70-6985).
                 
(e)    16   --   Fourth Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(e)    17   --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(e)    18   --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of  New York, Malcolm J. Hood, and Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank,  as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24  Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(e)    19   --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(e)    20   --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(e)    21   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(e)    22   --   Twentieth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of November 16, 1987, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-1  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated December  1,  1987,  in
                 70-7382).
                 
(e)    23   --   Twenty-first  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated as of December 1,  1987,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees (C-2 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated December 1, 1987,
                 in 70-7382).
                 
(e)    24   --   Twenty-third  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of January 11, 1991,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated January
                 23, 1991, in 70-7561).
                 
(e)    25   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(e)    26   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(e)    27   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(e)    28   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(e)    29   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17,1993,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(e)    30   --   Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as  Trustees,
                 (B-2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994 in 70-7946).
                 
(e)    31   --   Fuel  Lease, dated as of January 31, 1989, between River Fuel
                 Company #2, Inc., and LP&L (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate  in
                 70-7580).
                 
(e)    32   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
(e)    33   --   Compromise  and  Settlement Agreement, dated  June  4,  1982,
                 between Texaco, Inc. and LP&L (28(a) to Form 8-K, dated  June
                 4, 1982, in 1-8474).
                 
+(e)   34   --   Post-Retirement Plan (10(c)23 to Form 10-K for the year ended
                 December 31, 1983, in 1-8474).
                 
(e)    35   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between  System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L and NOPSI  (10(a)
                 39  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982,
                 in 1-3517).
                 
(e)    36   --   First  Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as
                 of  June 28, 1984, between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L
                 and  NOPSI  (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September
                 30, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(e)    37   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(e)    38   --   Middle   South  Utilities,  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April  28,  1988
                 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1987).
                 
(e)    39   --   First  Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle  South
                 Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany  Income
                 Tax  Allocation  Agreement, dated January  1,  1990  (D-2  to
                 Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1989).
                 
(e)    40   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(e)    41   --   Third  Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
(e)    42   --   Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level
                 Radioactive Waste, dated February 2, 1984, among DOE,  System
                 Fuels  and  LP&L  (10(d)33 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1984, in 1-8474).
                 
(e)    43   --   Operating  Agreement  between Entergy  Operations  and  LP&L,
                 dated  as  of  June 6, 1990 (B-2(c) to Rule  24  Certificate,
                 dated June 15, 1990, in 70-7679).
                 
(e)    44   --   Guarantee  Agreement  between Entergy Corporation  and  LP&L,
                 dated   as  of  September  20,  1990  (B-2(a),  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate, dated September 27, 1990, in 70-7757).
                 
+(e)   45   --   Executive Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a) 52 to Form 10-K for the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   46   --   Entergy  Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (10(a) 54 to  Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   47   --   Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                 (A-4(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated  May  24,  1991,  in
                 70-7831).
                 
+(e)   48   --   Supplemental Retirement Plan (10(a) 69 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   49   --   Defined  Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a) 53 to Form 10-K for the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   50   --   Amendment  No.  1  to the Equity Ownership  Plan  of  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 71 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   51   --   Executive   Disability  Plan  of  Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)  72  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   52   --   Executive   Medical   Plan   of   Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)  73  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   53   --   Stock  Plan for Outside Directors of Entergy Corporation  and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)  74  to Form 10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   54   --   Summary  Description  of Private Ownership  Vehicle  Plan  of
                 Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 75 to Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   55   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)  42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  1985
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   56   --   Agreement  between Entergy Corporation and Jerry  D.  Jackson
                 (10(a)  68 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   57   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Services and Gerald  D.  McInvale
                 (10(a)  69 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(e)   58   --   Agreement between System Energy and Donald C. Hintz (10(b) 47
                 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 in 1-9067).
                 
+(e)   59   --   Summary Description of Retired Outside Director Benefit  Plan
                 (10(c)90 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in
                 1-10764).
                 
+(e)   60   --   Amendment to Defined Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 81 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
+(e)   61   --   System  Executive Retirement Plan (10(a) 82 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
(e)    62   --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated July 20, 1994, between LP&L
                 and  St.  Charles  Parish,  Louisiana  (B-6(e)  to  Rule   24
                 Certificate dated August 1, 1994 in 70-7822).
                 
MP&L             
                 
(f)    1    --   Agreement dated April 23, 1982, among MP&L and certain  other
                 System companies, relating to System Planning and Development
                 and  Intra-System Transactions (10(a) 1 to Form 10-K for  the
                 fiscal year ended December 31, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(f)    2    --   Middle   South  Utilities  System  Agency  Agreement,   dated
                 December 11, 1970 (5(a)-2 in 2-41080).
                 
(f)    3    --   Amendment, dated February 10, 1971, to Middle South Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)  4  in
                 2-41080).
                 
(f)    4    --   Amendment,  dated  May  12, 1988, to Middle  South  Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a) 4 in 2-
                 41080).
                 
(f)    5    --   Middle  South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement,
                 dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-3 in 2-41080).
                 
(f)    6    --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1,
                 1963 (D in 37-63).
                 
(f)    7    --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1972, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (A to Notice, dated October  14,  1971,  in
                 37-63).
                 
(f)    8    --   Amendment,  dated April 27, 1984, to Service  Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(a) 7 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(f)    9    --   Amendment,  dated as of August 1, 1988, to Service  Agreement
                 with  Entergy Services (10(e) 8 to Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1988, in 0-320).
                 
(f)    10   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(e) 9 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 0-320).
                 
(f)    11   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1992, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services.
                 
(f)    12   --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(f)    13   --   First  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 30,  1977 (B to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 24, 1977,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(f)    14   --   Second Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 15,  1981  (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,  in
                 70-6592).
                 
(f)    15   --   Third  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 6, 1984,
                 in 70-6985).
                 
(f)    16   --   Fourth Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(f)    17   --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(f)    18   --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of  New York, Malcolm J. Hood, and Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank,  as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24  Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(f)    19   --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(f)    20   --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(f)    21   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(f)    22   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(f)    23   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(f)    24   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(f)    25   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(f)    26   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17, 1993, with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(f)    27   --   Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(f)    28   --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1974, between
                 MP&L  and Washington County, Mississippi (B-2(a) to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated August 1, 1974, in 70-5504).
                 
(f)    29   --   Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1982, between
                 MP&L  and Independence County, Arkansas, (B-1(c) to  Rule  24
                 Certificate dated July 21, 1982, in 70-6672).
                 
(f)    30   --   Installment  Sale  Agreement, dated as of December  1,  1982,
                 between  MP&L and Independence County, Arkansas,  (B-1(d)  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate dated December 7, 1982, in 70-6672).
                 
(f)    31   --   Amended and Restated Installment Sale Agreement, dated as  of
                 April  1,  1994, between MP&L and Warren County, Mississippi,
                 (B-6(a)  to  Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4,  1994,  in  70-
                 7914).
                 
(f)    32   --   Amended and Restated Installment Sale Agreement, dated as  of
                 April   1,   1994,   between  MP&L  and  Washington   County,
                 Mississippi,  (B-6(b)  to Rule 24 Certificate  dated  May  4,
                 1994, in 70-7914).
                 
(f)    33   --   Substitute  Power Agreement, dated as of May 1,  1980,  among
                 MP&L, System Energy and SMEPA (B-3(a) in 70-6337).
                 
(f)    34   --   Amendment, dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence  Steam
                 Electric  Station Operating Agreement (10(c) 51 to Form  10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1984, in 0-375).
                 
(f)    35   --   Amendment, dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence  Steam
                 Electric  Station Ownership Agreement (10(c) 54 to Form  10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1984, in 0-375).
                 
(f)    36   --   Owners  Agreement, dated November 28, 1984, among AP&L,  MP&L
                 and other co- owners of the Independence Station (10(c) 55 to
                 Form  10-K  for the fiscal year ended December 31,  1984,  in
                 0-375).
                 
(f)    37   --   Consent,  Agreement and Assumption, dated December  4,  1984,
                 among AP&L, MP&L, other co-owners of the Independence Station
                 and  United  States  Trust Company of New  York,  as  Trustee
                 (10(c) 56 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1984, in 0-375).
                 
(f)    38   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
+(f)   39   --   Post-Retirement Plan (10(d) 24 to Form 10-K  for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1983, in 0-320).
                 
(f)    40   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L, and NOPSI  (10(a)
                 39  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982,
                 in 1-3517).
                 
(f)    41   --   First  Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as
                 of June 28, 1984, between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L,
                 and  NOPSI  (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September
                 30, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(f)    42   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(f)    43   --   Sales  Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974,  between  System
                 Energy  and  MP&L (D to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  June  26,
                 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(f)    44   --   Service Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between  System
                 Energy  and  MP&L (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  June  26,
                 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(f)    45   --   Partial Termination Agreement, dated as of December 1,  1986,
                 between  System  Energy and MP&L (A-2 to Rule 24  Certificate
                 dated January 8, 1987, in 70-5399).
                 
(f)    46   --   Middle   South  Utilities,  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April 28,
                 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1987).
                 
(f)    47   --   First  Amendment  dated January 1, 1990 to the  Middle  South
                 Utilities  Inc.  and  Subsidiary Companies  Intercompany  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-2 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989).
                 
(f)    48   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(f)    49   --   Third  Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
+(f)   50   --   Executive Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a) 52 to Form 10-K for the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   51   --   Entergy  Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (10(a) 54 to  Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   52   --   Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                 (A-4(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated  May  24,  1991,  in
                 70-7831).
                 
+(f)   53   --   Supplemental  Retirement Plan (10(a)69 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   54   --   Defined  Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)53 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   55   --   Amendment  No.  1  to the Equity Ownership  Plan  of  Entergy
                 Corporation  and Subsidiaries (10(a)71 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   56   --   Executive   Disability  Plan  of  Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)72  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   57   --   Executive   Medical   Plan   of   Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)73  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   58   --   Stock  Plan for Outside Directors of Entergy Corporation  and
                 Subsidiaries, as amended (10(a)74 to Form 10-K for  the  year
                 ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   59   --   Summary  Description  of Private Ownership  Vehicle  Plan  of
                 Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)75 to  Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   60   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)-42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1985
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   61   --   Agreement  between Entergy Corporation and Jerry  D.  Jackson
                 (10(a)-68 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   62   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Services and Gerald  D.  McInvale
                 (10(a)-69 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(f)   63   --   Agreement between System Energy and Donald C. Hintz (10(b)-47
                 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 in 1-9067).
                 
+(f)   64   --   Summary Description of Retired Outside Director Benefit  Plan
                 (10(c)-90 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-10764).
                 
+(f)   65   --   Amendment to Defined Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 81 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
+(f)   66   --   System  Executive Retirement Plan (10(a) 82 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
NOPSI            
                 
(g)    1    --   Agreement,  dated  April 23, 1982, among  NOPSI  and  certain
                 other  System  companies, relating  to  System  Planning  and
                 Development  and Intra-System Transactions (10(a)-1  to  Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982, in 1-3517).
                 
(g)    2    --   Middle   South  Utilities  System  Agency  Agreement,   dated
                 December 11, 1970 (5(a)-2 in 2-41080).
                 
(g)    3    --   Amendment  dated  as of February 10, 1971,  to  Middle  South
                 Utilities  System Agency Agreement, dated December  11,  1970
                 (5(a)-4 in 2-41080).
                 
(g)    4    --   Amendment,  dated  May  12, 1988, to Middle  South  Utilities
                 System Agency Agreement, dated December 11, 1970 (5(a) 4   in
                 2-41080).
                 
(g)    5    --   Middle  South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement,
                 dated December 11, 1970 (5(a)-3 in 2-41080).
                 
(g)    6    --   Service Agreement with Entergy Services dated as of April  1,
                 1963 (5(a)-5 in 2-42523).
                 
(g)    7    --   Amendment, dated as of January 1, 1972, to Service  Agreement
                 with Entergy Services (4(a)-6 in 2-45916).
                 
(g)    8    --   Amendment,  dated as of April 27, 1984, to Service  Agreement
                 with  Entergy  Services (10(a)7 to Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(g)    9    --   Amendment,  dated as of August 1, 1988, to Service  Agreement
                 with  Entergy Services (10(f)-8 to Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1988, in 0-5807).
                 
(g)    10   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1991, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy  Services (10(f)-9 to Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                 ended December 31, 1990, in 0-5807).
                 
*(g)   11   --   Amendment,  dated January 1, 1992, to Service Agreement  with
                 Entergy Services.
                 
(g)    12   --   Availability  Agreement, dated June 21,  1974,  among  System
                 Energy  and  certain other System companies  (B  to  Rule  24
                 Certificate, dated June 24, 1974, in 70-5399).
                 
(g)    13   --   First  Amendment to Availability Agreement,  dated  June  30,
                 1977  (B  to  Rule 24 Certificate, dated June  30,  1977,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(g)    14   --   Second Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 15,  1981  (E to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 1, 1981,  in
                 70-6592).
                 
(g)    15   --   Third  Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 28, 1984 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated July 6, 1984,
                 in 70-6985).
                 
(g)    16   --   Fourth Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of  June
                 1,  1989  (A to Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 8,  1989,  in
                 70-5399).
                 
(g)    17   --   Fourteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement,  dated as of June 15, 1985, with Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank, United States Trust Company of New  York  and
                 Malcolm  J. Hood, as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate,
                 dated July 31, 1985, in 70-7026).
                 
(g)    18   --   Fifteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of  New  York, Malcolm J. Hood and Deposit  Guaranty
                 National  Bank,  as Trustees (B-3(b) to Rule 24  Certificate,
                 dated June 5, 1986, in 70-7158).
                 
(g)    19   --   Sixteenth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1986, with United States  Trust
                 Company  of New York and Malcolm J. Hood, as Trustees  (C  to
                 Rule 24 Certificate, dated June 4, 1986, in 70-7123).
                 
(g)    20   --   Eighteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-2  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(g)    21   --   Nineteenth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1986, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-3  to  Rule  24  Certificate, dated October  1,  1986,  in
                 70-7272).
                 
(g)    22   --   Twentieth  Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent  and
                 Agreement, dated as of November 15, 1987, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (C-1  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated December  1,  1987,  in
                 70-7382).
                 
(g)    23   --   Twenty-first  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated as of December 1,  1987,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees (C-2 to Rule 24 Certificate, dated December 1, 1987,
                 in 70-7382).
                 
(g)    24   --   Twenty-third  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of January 11, 1991,  with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated January
                 23, 1991, in 70-7561).
                 
(g)    25   --   Twenty-fourth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1992, with United  States
                 Trust  Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,  as  Trustees
                 (B-2(b)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated July  14,  1992,  in
                 70-7946).
                 
(g)    26   --   Twenty-fifth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(g)    27   --   Twenty-sixth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement,  dated  as of October 1,  1992,  with  United
                 States  Trust  Company of New York and Gerard  F.  Ganey,  as
                 Trustees  (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate, dated  November  2,
                 1992, in 70-7946).
                 
(g)    28   --   Twenty-seventh Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1993, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey as Trustees (B-
                 2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in 70-7946).
                 
(g)    29   --   Twenty-eighth  Assignment of Availability Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of December 17, 1993, with  Chemical
                 Bank,  as Agent (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December
                 22, 1993 in 70-7561).
                 
(g)    30   --   Twenty-ninth  Assignment of Availability  Agreement,  Consent
                 and  Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, with United States
                 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-
                 2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994, in 70-7946).
                 
(g)    31   --   Reallocation  Agreement, dated as of  July  28,  1981,  among
                 System  Energy and certain other System companies (B-1(a)  in
                 70-6624).
                 
+(g)   32   --   Post-Retirement Plan (10(e) 22 to Form 10-K  for  the  fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1983, in 1-1319).
                 
(g)    33   --   Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement, dated as  of  June  10,  1982,
                 between  System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L and NOPSI  (10(a)
                 39  to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1982,
                 in 1-3517).
                 
(g)    34   --   First  Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated  as
                 of  June 28, 1984, between System Energy and AP&L, LP&L, MP&L
                 and  NOPSI  (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September
                 30, 1984, in 1-3517).
                 
(g)    35   --   Revised Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).
                 
(g)    36   --   Transfer Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1983, among the City
                 of New Orleans, NOPSI and Regional Transit Authority (2(a) to
                 Form 8-K, dated June 24, 1983, in 1-1319).
                 
(g)    37   --   Middle   South  Utilities,  Inc.  and  Subsidiary   Companies
                 Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement, dated April 28,
                 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1987).
                 
(g)    38   --   First  Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle  South
                 Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany  Income
                 Tax  Allocation Agreement (D-2 to Form U5S for the year ended
                 December 31, 1989).
                 
(g)    39   --   Second  Amendment  dated  January 1,  1992,  to  the  Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income  Tax
                 Allocation  Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992).
                 
(g)    40   --   Third  Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax  Allocation
                 Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
                 1993).
                 
+(g)   41   --   Executive Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)52 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   42   --   Entergy  Corporation Annual Incentive Plan (10(a)54  to  Form
                 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   43   --   Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
                 (A-4(a)  to  Rule  24 Certificate, dated  May  24,  1991,  in
                 70-7831).
                 
+(g)   44   --   Supplemental  Retirement Plan (10(a)69 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   45   --   Defined  Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation
                 and  Subsidiaries (10(a)53 to Form 10-K for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1989 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   46   --   Amendment  No.  1  to the Equity Ownership  Plan  of  Entergy
                 Corporation  and Subsidiaries (10(a)71 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   47   --   Executive   Disability  Plan  of  Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)72  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   48   --   Executive   Medical   Plan   of   Entergy   Corporation   and
                 Subsidiaries  (10(a)73  to  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
                 December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   49   --   Stock  Plan for Outside Directors of Entergy Corporation  and
                 Subsidiaries, as amended (10(a)74 to Form 10-K for  the  year
                 ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   50   --   Summary  Description  of Private Ownership  Vehicle  Plan  of
                 Entergy  Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)75 to  Form  10-K
                 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   51   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Corporation and  Edwin  Lupberger
                 (10(a)-42 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1985
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   52   --   Agreement  between Entergy Corporation and Jerry  D.  Jackson
                 (10(a)-68 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   53   --   Agreement  between  Entergy Services and Gerald  D.  McInvale
                 (10(a)-69 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-3517).
                 
+(g)   54   --   Agreement between System Energy and Donald C. Hintz (10(b)-47
                 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 in 1-9067).
                 
+(g)   55   --   Summary Description of Retired Outside Director Benefit  Plan
                 (10(c)-90 to Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  1992
                 in 1-10764).
                 
+(g)   56   --   Amendment to Defined Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy
                 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a) 81 to Form 10-K  for  the
                 year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
+(g)   57   --   System  Executive Retirement Plan (10(a) 82 to Form 10-K  for
                 the year ended December 31, 1993 in 1-11299).
                 
(12)  Statement Re Computation of Ratios
                 
*(a)   AP&L's    Computation  of  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  and  of
                 Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges  and  Preferred  Dividends,   as
                 defined.
                 
*(b)   GSU's     Computation  of  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  and  of
                 Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges  and  Preferred  Dividends,   as
                 defined.
                 
*(c)   LP&L's    Computation  of  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  and  of
                 Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges  and  Preferred  Dividends,   as
                 defined.
                 
*(d)   MP&L's    Computation  of  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  and  of
                 Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges  and  Preferred  Dividends,   as
                 defined.
                 
*(e)   NOPSI's   Computation  of  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  and  of
                 Earnings  to  Fixed  Charges  and  Preferred  Dividends,   as
                 defined.
                 
*(f)             System  Energy's Computation of Ratios of Earnings  to  Fixed
                 Charges, as defined.
                 
*(21)            Subsidiaries of the Registrants
                 
(23)             Consents of Experts and Counsel
                 

*(a)   The  consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. is contained herein at page 373.
       
*(b)   The  consent  of Deloitte & Touche LLP is contained herein  at  page 374.
       
*(c)   The  consent of Friday, Eldredge & Clark is contained herein at page 375.
       
*(d)   The  consent of Clark, Thomas & Winters is contained herein at  page 376.
       
*(e)   The consent of Sandlin Associates is contained herein at page 377.
       
*(f)   The  consent  of  Monroe  & Lemann (A Professional  Corporation)  is 
       contained herein at page 378.
       
*(g)   The consent of Wise Carter Child & Caraway, Professional Association, 
       is contained herein at page 379.
       
       
*(24)  Powers of Attorney

(27)   Financial Data Schedule

*(a)   Financial Data Schedule for Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries as
       of December 31, 1994.

*(b)   Financial Data Schedule for AP&L as of December 31, 1994.

*(c)   Financial Data Schedule for GSU as of December 31, 1994.

*(d)   Financial Data Schedule for LP&L as of December 31, 1994.

*(e)   Financial Data Schedule for MP&L as of December 31, 1994.

*(f)   Financial Data Schedule for NOPSI as of December 31, 1994.

*(g)   Financial Data Schedule for System Energy as of December 31, 1994.

       
(99)   Additional Exhibits
       
GSU    
       
(a) 1  Opinion of Clark, Thomas & Winters, a professional corporation, dated 
       September 30, 1992 regarding the effect of the October 1,  1991 judgment 
       in GSU v. PUCT in the District Court of Travis County, Texas (99-1 in 
       Registration No. 33-48889).
       
(a) 2  Opinion  of  Clark  Clark, Thomas & Winters, a professional corporation, 
       dated August 8, 1994 regarding recovery  of  costs  deferred purusant to 
       PUCT order in Docket 6525 (99 (j) to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
       the quarter ended June 30, 1994 in No. 1-2703).
       
*(a) 3 Opinion of Clark, Thomas & Winters, a professional corporation, 
       confirming its opinions dated September 30, 1992 and August 8, 1994.

_________________

*  Filed herewith.
+  Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.



