Item 1: Business

We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We have15,993average full-time equivalent employees. Through the Bank, we have 150 years of serving the financial needs of our customers. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31,2016, the Bank had24private client group offices and1,091branches as follows:



•    523 branches in Ohio•    39 branches in Illinois•    353 branches in Michigan•    37 branches in Wisconsin•    53 branches in Pennsylvania•    30 branches in West Virginia•    46 branches in Indiana•    10 branches in Kentucky

Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant.

Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each of our five business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery and customer service.

A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to:

1.Use a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer.

2.Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers.

3.Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us.



Following is a description of our five business segments and a Treasury / Other function:

•Consumer and Business Banking:TheConsumer and Business Bankingsegment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, investments, consumer loans, credit cards and small business loans. Other financial services available to consumer and small business customers include mortgages, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Huntington serves customers through our network of branches in Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking and ATMs.

We have a "Fair Play" banking philosophy; providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer advocacy.  Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses; earning us new customers and deeper relationships with current customers.









Business Banking is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with revenues up to $20 million and consists of approximately254,000businesses. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business and look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs.

•Commercial Banking:Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market, large corporate, and government public sector customers located primarily within our geographic footprint. The segment is divided into seven business units: middle market, large corporate, specialty banking, asset finance, capital markets, treasury management, and insurance.

Middle Market Banking primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to companies with annual revenues of $20 million to $500 million. Through a relationship management approach, various products, capabilities and solutions are seamlessly delivered in a client centric way.

Large Corporate Banking works with larger, often more complex companies with revenues greater than $500 million. These entities, many of which are publicly traded, require a different and customized approach to their banking needs.

Specialty Banking offers tailored products and services to select industries that have a foothold in the Midwest. Each team is comprised of industry experts with a dynamic understanding of the market and industry. Many of these industries are experiencing tremendous change, which creates opportunities for Huntington to leverage our expertise and help clients navigate, adapt, and succeed.

Asset Finance is a combination of our Equipment Finance, Public Capital, Asset Based Lending, Technology and Healthcare Equipment Leasing, and Lender Finance divisions that focus on providing financing solutions against these respective asset classes.

Capital Markets has two distinct product offerings: corporate risk management services and institutional sales, trading, and underwriting. The Capital Markets Group offers a full suite of risk management tools including commodities, foreign exchange, and interest rate hedging services. The Institutional Sales, Trading & Underwriting team provides access to capital and investment solutions for both municipal and corporate institutions.

Treasury Management teams help businesses manage their working capital programs and reduce expenses. Our liquidity solutions help customers save and invest wisely, while our payables and receivables capabilities help them manage purchases and the receipt of payments for goods and services. All of this is provided while helping customers take a sophisticated approach to managing their overhead, inventory, equipment, and labor.

Insurance brokerage business specializes in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, life, disability and specialty lines of insurance. The group also provides brokerage and agency services for residential and commercial title insurance and excess and surplus product lines of insurance. As an agent and broker, this business does not assume underwriting risks but alternatively provides our customers with access to quality, noninvestment insurance contracts.

•Commercial Real Estate and Vehicle Finance:This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to customers outside of our traditional retail and commercial banking segments. Our products and services include providing financing for land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real estate project financing needs, and financing for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles and marine craft at franchised dealerships, financing the acquisition of new and used vehicle inventory of franchised automotive dealerships. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.

The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured by commercial properties. Most of these customers are located within our footprint.  Within Commercial Real Estate, Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to moderate-income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization.









The Vehicle Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships has allowed us to expand into select markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation.  RV and marine loans are originated on an indirect basis through a series of dealerships.

•Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group:Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Groupis closely aligned with our regional banking markets. A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets.

The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth & Investment Management, and Retirement plan services.  The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services.  The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services.  This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate businesses.  The Huntington Private Client Group also provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services.

•Home Lending:Home Lendingoriginates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through theConsumer and Business BankingandRegional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Groupsegments, as well as through commissioned loan originators.Home Lendingearns interest on portfolio loans and loans held-for-sale, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans.Home Lendingsupports the origination and servicing of mortgage loans across all segments.

The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.

The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note24of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.

Business Combination

On August 16, 2016, Huntington completed its acquisition of FirstMerit Corporation in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $3.7 billion. FirstMerit Corporation was a diversified financial services company headquartered in Akron, Ohio, with operations in Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois and Pennsylvania. Post acquisition, Huntington now operates across an eight-state Midwestern footprint. The acquisition resulted in a combined company with a larger market presence and more diversified loan portfolio, as well as a larger core deposit funding base and economies of scale associated with a larger financial institution.  For further discussion, see Note3of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and outside of our primary market areas. FinTech startups are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers.

We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a result of addressing our customers’ entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets.

We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We have also instituted customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace®account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.

The table below shows our combined Huntington and FirstMerit competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as ofJune 30, 2016, in the top 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) in which we compete:











MSARankDeposits(in millions)Market ShareColumbus, OH1$20,45332%Cleveland, OH58,97614Detroit, MI76,5425Akron, OH15,61139Indianapolis, IN43,2727Cincinnati, OH42,7273Pittsburgh, PA92,6892Chicago, IL162,5811Toledo, OH12,47425Grand Rapids, MI22,46612Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2016 survey.

Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers, and bank failures.

Financial Technology, or FinTech, startups are emerging in key areas of banking.  In response, we are monitoring activity in marketplace lending along with businesses engaged in money transfer, investment advice, and money management tools. Our strategy involves assessing the marketplace, determining our near term plan, while developing a longer term approach to effectively service our existing customers and attract new customers. This includes evaluating which products we develop in-house, as well as evaluating partnership options, where applicable.

Regulatory Matters

General

We are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, CFPB, FDIC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies.  The statutory and regulatory framework that governs us is generally intended to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole.  Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization.

The banking industry is highly regulated.  During the past several years, there has been a significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight of U.S. financial services firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes that affect financial companies, including banking organizations.  Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other laws are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. Some of the regulations related to these reforms are still in the implementation stage and, as a result, there is significant uncertainty concerning their ultimate impact on us.

The following discussion describes certain elements of the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to us.

Supervision, Regulation and Examination

Huntington is registered as a BHC with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act and qualifies for and has elected to become a FHC under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999.  As a FHC, Huntington is subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, and is permitted to engage in, and be affiliated with companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than permitted for a BHC, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies.  Huntington and the Bank must each remain “well-capitalized” and “well-managed” in order for Huntington to maintain its status as a FHC.  In addition, the Bank must receive a CRA rating of at least “Satisfactory” at its most recent examination for Huntington to engage in the full range of activities permissible for FHCs.









The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States and is subject to comprehensive primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. As a national bank, the activities of the Bank are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related regulations and interpretations by the OCC. As a member of the DIF, the Bank is also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC.  In addition, the Bank is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the CFPB, which is the primary administrator of most federal consumer financial statutes and the primary consumer financial regulator of banking organizations with $10 billion or more in assets.

Under the system of “functional regulation” established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization.  The primary regulators of our non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Federal Reserve exercising a supervisory role.  Such “functionally regulated” non-bank subsidiaries include, for example, broker-dealers registered with the SEC and investment advisers registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities.

Regulatory Capital Requirements

Huntington and the Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements.  The Federal Reserve establishes capital and leverage requirements for Huntington and evaluates its compliance with such requirements.  The OCC establishes similar capital and leverage requirements for the Bank.  In 2013, the Federal Reserve and OCC issued final rules (and the FDIC issued interim final rules that were adopted as final rules in April 2014) to implement the Basel III capital accord, as well as certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The final capital rules made a number of significant changes to the regulatory capital ratios applicable to Huntington and the Bank, as well as all other banks and BHCs of their size.  In addition, the capital rules modified the types of capital instruments that may be included in regulatory capital and how certain assets are risk-weighted for purposes of these calculations.

Under the final capital rules, Huntington and the Bank must maintain a minimum CET1 risk-based ratio, a minimum Tier I risk-based capital ratio, a minimum total risk-based capital ratio, and a minimum leverage ratio.  The final capital rules also limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonuses if a banking organization does not maintain certain capital ratios.  The preamble to the final capital rules states that these quantitative calculations are minimums and that the agencies may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to be operate in a safe and sound manner.

In addition, the final capital rules generally provide that trust preferred securities and certain preferred securities no longer count as Tier I capital.  Banking organizations with more than $15 billion in total consolidated assets were required to phase-out of additional Tier 1 capital any non-qualifying capital instruments (such as trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred shares) issued before September 12, 2010.  We have phased out the additional tier 1 capital treatment of our trust preferred securities but are including these instruments in tier 2 capital as allowed by Basel III.

The final capital rules take effect in phases.  Huntington and the Bank were required to be in compliance with certain calculation requirements and begin transitioning to other requirements by January 1, 2015, with full compliance with the modified calculations on January 1, 2019.  The rules concerning capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers became effective on January 1, 2016.

The following are the minimum Basel III regulatory capital levels that we must satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the applicable transition period, from January 1, 2016, until January 1, 2019:

Minimum Basel III Regulatory Capital LevelsJanuary 1,2016January 1,2017January 1,2018January 1,2019Common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio5.125%5.75%6.375%7.0%Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio6.625%7.25%7.875%8.5%Total risk-based capital ratio8.625%9.25%9.875%10.5%

Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines may subject a financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities.  These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  In addition, the financial institution could be subject to the measures described below under “Prompt Corrective Action” as applicable to under-capitalized institutions.









Huntington’s regulatory capital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions throughout 2016.  An institution is deemed to be “well-capitalized” if it meets or exceeds the well-capitalized minimums listed below, and is not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.

At December 31, 2016(dollar amounts in billions)Well-capitalized minimumsActualExcessCapital (1)Ratios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidatedN/A8.70%N/ABank5.00%9.29$4.2Common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidatedN/A9.56N/ABank6.5010.423.1Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.0010.922.7Bank8.0011.611.3Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated10.0013.052.4Bank10.0013.833.0

(1)Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage.

Enhanced Prudential Standardsand Early Remediation Requirements

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs with consolidated assets of more than $50 billion, such as Huntington, are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements.  As a result, Huntington is subject to more stringent standards and requirements, including liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, risk management standards, than those applicable to smaller institutions.  With regard to resiliency, we are expected to ensure that the consolidated organization and its core business lines can survive under a broad range of internal or external stresses.  This requires financial resilience by maintaining sufficient capital and liquidity, and operational resilience by maintaining effective corporate governance, risk management, and recovery planning.  With respect to lowering the probability of failure, we are expected to ensure the sustainability of our critical operations and banking offices under a broad range of internal or external stresses.

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review

Huntington is required to submit a capital plan annually to the Federal Reserve for supervisory review in connection with its annual CCAR process.  Huntington is required to include within its capital plan an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a detailed description of the process for assessing capital adequacy, its capital policy, and a discussion of any expected changes to its business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy.  The planning horizon for the most recently completed capital planning and stress testing cycle encompassed the nine-quarter period from the first quarter of 2016 through the first quarter of 2018.

Currently, the Federal Reserve may object to a BHC’s capital plan based on either quantitative or qualitative grounds.  If the Federal Reserve objects to a BHC’s capital plan, the BHC may not make any capital distribution unless the Federal Reserve indicates in writing that it does not object to the distribution.  Under CCAR, the Federal Reserve makes a qualitative assessment of capital adequacy on a forward-looking basis and reviews the strength of a BHC’s capital adequacy process.  The Federal Reserve also makes a quantitative assessment of capital based on supervisory-run stress tests that assess the ability to maintain capital levels above certain minimum ratios, after taking all capital actions included in a BHC’s capital plan, under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.  As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates whether BHCs have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial market stress and whether they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks.

The Federal Reserve expects BHCs subject to CCAR, such as Huntington, to have sufficient capital to withstand a highly adverse operating environment and to be able to continue operations, maintain ready access to funding, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, and serve as credit intermediaries.  In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates the planned capital actions of these BHCs, including planned capital distributions such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.  We generally may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.  In addition, we are generally prohibited from making a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, we will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios.









On September 30, 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule to amend the capital plan and stress test rules for large and non-complex BHCs, such as Huntington, to provide, among other things, that beginning with the 2017 CCAR cycle, such BHCs would continue to submit a capital plan for quantitative assessment but would no longer be subject to a non-objection from a qualitative aspect.  The Federal Reserve is proposing to evaluate the strength of a large and non-complex company’s qualitative capital planning process through the regular supervisory process and targeted horizontal reviews of particular aspects of capital planning.  A final rule implementing the changes described above was issued on February 3, 2017.

Huntington submitted its 2016 capital plan to the Federal Reserve in April 2016.  The Federal Reserve did not object to Huntington’s 2016 capital plan.  Huntington is required and intends to submit to the Federal Reserve its capital plan for 2017 by April 5, 2017.  There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will respond favorably to Huntington’s 2017 capital plan, capital actions or stress test results.

Stress Testing

The Dodd-Frank Act requires a semi-annual supervisory stress test of BHCs, including Huntington, with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets.  This Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress testing is a forward-looking quantitative evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on BHC capital.  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires BHCs to conduct company-run annual and semi-annual stress tests, the results of which are filed with the Federal Reserve and publicly disclosed.  A BHC’s ability to make capital distributions is limited to the extent the BHC’s actual capital levels are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan submission.

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires a national bank, such as the Bank, with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct annual company-run stress tests.  The objective of the annual company-run stress test is to ensure that covered institutions have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks, and to help ensure that institutions have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress.  A covered institution is required to publish a summary of the results of its annual stress tests.

Liquidity Coverage Ratio

On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rulewhich became effective on January 1, 2015 to implement a minimum LCR requirement for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and a less stringent modified LCR requirement to depository institution holding companies, such as Huntington, below the threshold but with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.  The LCR requires covered banking organizations to maintain HQLA equal to projected stressed cash outflows over a 30 calendar-day stress scenario.  Huntington is covered by the “modified LCR” requirement and therefore subject to the phase-in of the rule beginning January 2016 at 90% and January 2017 at 100%.  Huntington is required to calculate the LCR monthly.  The LCR assigns less severe outflow assumptions to certain types of customer deposits, which should increase the demand, and perhaps the cost, among banks for these deposits.  Additionally, the HQLA requirements has increased the demand for direct U.S. government and U.S. government-guaranteed debt that, while high quality, generally carry lower yields than other securities that banks hold in their investment portfolios.

Restrictions on Dividends

At the holding company level, Huntington relies on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries, particularly the Bank, to fund the dividends paid to its shareholders, as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations.  Certain federal and state statutes, regulations and contractual restrictions limit the ability of our subsidiaries, including the Bank, to pay dividends to us.  The OCC has authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the Bank if, in the OCC’s view, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the Bank.

In addition, Huntington’s ability to pay dividends or return capital to its shareholders, whether through an increase in common stock dividends or through a share repurchase program, is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve.  The dividend and share repurchase policies of certain BHCs, such as Huntington, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve through the CCAR process, based on capital plans and stress tests submitted by the BHC, and are assessed against, among other things, the BHC’s ability to meet and exceed minimum regulatory capital ratios under stressed scenarios, its expected sources and uses of capital over the planning horizon under baseline and stressed scenarios, and any potential impact of changes to its business plan and activities on its capital adequacy and liquidity.  The Federal Reserve’s capital planning rule includes a limitation on capital distributions to the extent that actual capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in the capital plan submission.









Volcker Rule

The Dodd-Frank Act introduced restrictions to prohibit or restrict the ability of banking entities from engaging in short-term proprietary trading and sponsoring of or investing in private equity and hedge funds (the “Volcker Rule”).  The final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule were adopted by the regulatory agencies on December 10, 2013.

The Volcker Rule and final regulations contain a number of exceptions to the prohibition on proprietary trading and sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in private equity or hedge funds (“covered funds”).  The Volcker Rule permits banking entities to engage in certain activities such as underwriting, market-making and risk-mitigation hedging, and exempts from the definition of a covered fund certain entities, such as wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, and acquisitions vehicles, as well as SEC registered investment companies.  In addition, the Volcker Rule limits certain types of transactions between a banking entity and any covered fund forwhich it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.

The final rules implementing the Volcker Rule extended the conformance period generally until July 21, 2015.  On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it would give banking entities an additional one year, until July 21, 2016, to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 (“legacy covered funds”). On July 7, 2016, the Federal Reserve granted banking entities an additional one-year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships to legacy covered funds.  In February 2017, the Federal Reserve approved our application for an extended transition period with respect to certain legacy illiquid fund investments.

On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities from the investment prohibitions of the Volcker Rule.  Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the retention of an interest in or sponsorship of covered funds by banking entities if certain qualifications are met.  In addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of the interim final rule. At December 31, 2016, we had investments in seven different pools of trust preferred securities. Six of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers. We have analyzed the other pool that was not included on the list and believe that we will continue to be able to own this investment under the final Volcker Rule regulations as well.

Resolution Planning

As a BHC with assets of $50 billion or more, Huntington is required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for the orderly resolution of Huntington and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency laws in a rapid and orderly fashion in the event of future material financial distress or failure (a “resolution plan”).  If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly determine that the resolution plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner, they may jointly impose on us more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations.  In addition, the FDIC requires each insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in assets, such the Bank, periodically to file a resolution plan with the FDIC.

In July 2016, we were informed that the FDIC extended the date for submission of the Bank’s 2016 resolution plan to December 31, 2017.  In August 2016, we were informed that the Federal Reserve and the FDIC also had extended the date for the submission of Huntington’s 2016 resolution plan to December 31, 2017.  In each case, we were informed that the submission of a resolution plan in 2017 will satisfy the 2016 resolution plan requirement.

On September 29, 2016, the OCC published final guidelines establishing standards for recovery planning by insured national bankswith average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including the Bank.  The final guidelines provide, among other things, that a covered bank should develop and maintain a recovery plan that is appropriate for its individual size, risk profile, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure.  OCC examiners will assess the appropriateness and adequacy of a covered bank’s ongoing recovery planning process as part of the agency’s regular supervisory activities.  Our compliance date is within 18 months from January 1, 2017.

Source of Strength

Huntington is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank.  This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of Huntington or our stockholders or creditors. The Federal Reserve may require a BHC to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the BHC with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the BHC fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the BHC’s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.









Prompt Corrective Action

FDICIA requires federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” against banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements.  Under this regime, the FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on a bank’s operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  For instance, only a well-capitalized bank may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an adequately capitalized bank may only do so with such prior approval.

Under FDICIA, five capital levels or categories are established: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized.  These capital categories are determined solely for purposes of applying the prompt corrective action provisions, and such capital categories may not constitute an accurate representation of our overall financial condition or prospects.  An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital category of an institution declines.  Failure to meet the capital requirements could also require a depository institution to raise capital.  Ultimately, critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, the FDIC may be appointed as the conservator or receiver of the institution. The FDIC has broad powers to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.

Transactions between a Bank and its Affiliates

Federal banking laws and regulations impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including between a bank and its holding company and companies that the BHC may be deemed to control for these purposes.  Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm’s-length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital.  Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the BHC may be required to provide it.  The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the coverage and scope of these regulations, including by applying them to the credit exposure arising under derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions.

Heightened Governance and Risk Management Standards

The OCC has published final guidelines to update expectations for the governance and risk management practices of certain large financial institutions, including national banks with $50 billion or more in average total consolidated assets, such as the Bank.  The guidelines, which became effective on November 10, 2014, require covered banks to establish and adhere to a written governance framework in order to manage and control their risk-taking activities. In addition, the guidelines provide standards for the institutions’ boards of directors to oversee the risk governance framework. Given its size and the phased implementation schedule, the Bank became subject to these heightened standards effective May 2016. As discussed inItem 1A: Risk Factors, the Bank currently has a written governance framework and associated controls.

Anti-Money Laundering

The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the implementation of various regulations applicable to all financial institutions, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing.  Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.









Privacy

Federal law contains extensive consumer privacy protection provisions, including substantial consumer privacy protections provided under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999.  Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and generally annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling and safeguarding of customers’ nonpublic personal information.  These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such nonpublic personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.

FDIC Insurance

DIF provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, which is funded through assessments on banks.  The Bank accepts deposits that are insured by the DIF.  As a DIF member, the Bank must pay insurance premiums.  The FDIC may take action to increase the Bank’s insurance premiums based on various factors, including the FDIC’s assessment of its risk profile. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to change the deposit insurance assessment base from deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity.  In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule to increase the DIF from 1.15% to the statutorily required minimum level of 1.35%.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets, such as the Bank, are responsible for funding this increase.

On November 15, 2016, the FDIC adopted a final rule to facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large insured depository institutions (those with more than two million deposit accounts) fail. The final rule, which is expected to become effective on April 1, 2017, requires us to configure our information technology system to be capable of calculating the insured and uninsured amount in each deposit account by ownership right and capacity, which would be used by the FDIC to make deposit insurance determinations in the event of our failure, and maintain complete and accurate information needed by the FDIC to determine deposit insurance coverage with respect to each deposit account, except as otherwise provided.  We will have three years after the effective date for implementation.

Compensation

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies. The scope and content of compensation regulation in the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect that these regulations and resulting market practices will continue to evolve over a number of years.

The federal bank regulatory agencies have provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness.

In 2016 the federal banking regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the SEC, jointly proposed a rule to implement Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 956 generally requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to jointly issue regulations or guidelines: (1) prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements that the agencies determine encourage inappropriate risks by certain financial institutions by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss; and (2) requiring those financial institutions to disclose information concerning incentive-based compensation arrangements to the appropriate federal regulator.

Cyber Security

The CISA, which became effective on December 18, 2015, is intended to improve cyber security in the United States by enhanced sharing of information about security threats among the U.S. government and private sector entities, including financial institutions. The CISA also authorizes companies to monitor their own systems notwithstanding any other provision of law, and allows companies to carry out defensive measures on their own systems from cyber-attacks. The law includes liability protections for companies that share cyber threat information with third parties so long as such sharing activity is conducted in accordance with CISA.









Enhanced Cyber Risk Management Standards

On November 22, 2016, the federal banking agencies released an ANPR regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards (enhanced standards) for large and interconnected entities under their supervision.  The agencies stated that they were considering establishing enhanced standards to increase the operational resilience of covered entities and reduce the impact on the financial system in case of a cyber event experienced by a covered entity.  The ANPR describes potential enhanced cyber standards that are divided into five general categories: cyber risk governance; cyber risk management; internal dependency management; external dependency management; and incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness.  The agencies are considering implementing the enhanced standards in a tiered manner, imposing more stringent standards on the systems of those entities that are critical to the functioning of the financial sector.  The Federal Reserve is considering applying the enhanced standards on an enterprise-wide basis to all BHCs, such as us, with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.  The OCC is considering applying the standards to any national bank, such as the Bank, that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.

Community Reinvestment Act

The CRA requires the Bank’s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the OCC, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the Bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” This assessment is reviewed for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch office.  The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a BHC, such as the Bank, also is assessed by the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition or merger application.

CFPB Regulation and Supervision

We are subject to supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to federal consumerprotection laws, including laws relating to fair lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services.

On October 3, 2015, the CFPB’s final rules on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act became effective.  On January 1, 2016, most requirements of the OCC’s Final Rule in Loans in Areas Having Special Flood Hazards (the Flood Final Rule) became effective, including the requirement that flood insurance premiums and fees for most mortgage loans be escrowed subject to certain exceptions. The Flood Final Rule also incorporated other existing flood insurance requirements and exceptions (e.g. the exemption from flood insurance requirements for non-residential detached structures - a discretionary item) with those portions of the Flood Final Rule becoming effective on October 1, 2015.

Throughout 2016, the CFPB continued its focus on fair lending practices of indirect automobile lenders. This focus led to some lenders to enter into consent orders with the CFPB and Department of Justice. Indirect automobile lenders have also received continued pressure from the CFPB to limit or eliminate discretionary pricing by dealers. Finally, the CFPB has implemented its larger participant rule for indirect automobile lending which brings larger non-bank indirect automobile lenders under CFPB supervision.

Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used their authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to unfair or deceptive acts or practices by banks under standards developed many years ago by the Federal Trade Commission in order to address practices that may not necessarily fall within the scope of a specific banking or consumer finance law.  The Dodd-Frank Act also gave to the CFPB similar authority to take action in connection with unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices by entities subject to CFPB supervisory or enforcement authority.  Banks face considerable uncertainty as to the regulatory interpretation of “abusive” practices.

Available Information

This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site ishttp://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are also available free of charge at our Internet web site. The address of the site ishttp://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York.













