Item 1:Business



We are a multi-state diversified financial holding company
    organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in
    Columbus, Ohio. Through our subsidiaries, we provide
    full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage
    banking services, automobile financing, equipment leasing,
    investment management, trust services, brokerage services,
    customized insurance service programs, and other financial
    products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only
    bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had:



•340 banking offices in Ohio•115 banking offices in Michigan•56 banking offices in Pennsylvania•50 banking offices in Indiana•28 banking offices in West Virginia•13 banking offices in Kentucky•9 private banking offices•one foreign office in the Cayman Islands•one foreign office in Hong Kong



We conduct certain activities in other states including Arizona,
    Florida, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York,
    Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Our foreign banking activities,
    in total or with any individual country, are not significant. At
    December 31, 2009, we had 10,272 full-time equivalent
    employees.



Our business segments are discussed in our Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations and the financial statement results for each of our
    business segments can be found in Note 27 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, both are included in our
    Annual Report to shareholders, which is incorporated into this
    report by reference.



Competition



Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on
    price and service with other banks and financial services
    companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, finance
    companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and
    brokerage firms. Competition could intensify in the future as a
    result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of
    products and services from non-banks, greater technological
    developments in the industry, and banking reform.



Regulatory
    Matters



General



We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial
    holding company with the Federal Reserve. We are subject to
    examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve pursuant to
    the Bank Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports
    and other information regarding our business operations and the
    business operations of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve.





Because we are a public company, we are also subject to
    regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The
    SEC has established three categories of issuers for the purpose
    of filing periodic and annual reports. Under these regulations,
    we are considered to be a “large accelerated filer”
    and, as such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting
    requirements.



The Bank is subject to examination and supervision by the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). Its domestic deposits
    are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which also has certain
    regulatory and supervisory authority over it. Our non-bank
    subsidiaries are also subject to examination and supervision by
    the Federal Reserve or, in the case of non-bank subsidiaries of
    the Bank, by the OCC. Our subsidiaries are also subject to
    examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in
    the case of certain securities and investment management
    activities, regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority.



In connection with emergency economic stabilization programs
    adopted in late 2008 as described below under “Recent
    Regulatory Developments,” we are also subject for the
    foreseeable future to certain direct oversight by the
    U.S. Treasury Department and to certain non-traditional
    oversight by our normal banking regulators.



In addition to the impact of federal and state regulation, the
    Bank and our non-bank subsidiaries are affected significantly by
    the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control the
    money supply and credit availability in order to influence the
    economy.



Holding
    Company Structure



We have one national bank subsidiary and numerous non-bank
    subsidiaries. Exhibit 21.1 of this report lists all of our
    subsidiaries.



The Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions under
    federal laws, which limit the transfer of funds by a subsidiary
    bank or its subsidiaries to its parent corporation or any
    non-bank subsidiary of its parent corporation, whether in the
    form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset
    purchases. Such transfers by a subsidiary bank are limited to:



•10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus for
    transfers to its parent corporation or to any individual
    non-bank subsidiary of the parent, and•An aggregate of 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and
    surplus for transfers to such parent together with all such
    non-bank subsidiaries of the parent.



Furthermore, such loans and extensions of credit must be secured
    within specified amounts. In addition, all affiliate
    transactions must be conducted on terms and under circumstances
    that are substantially the same as such transactions with
    unaffiliated entities.



As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve expects a bank
    holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial
    strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources
    to support each such subsidiary bank. Under this source of
    strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank
    holding company to make capital injections into a troubled
    subsidiary bank. They may charge the bank holding company with
    engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit
    resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions
    that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize its ability
    to commit resources to such subsidiary bank. A capital injection
    may be required at times when the holding company does not have
    the resources to provide it.



Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are
    subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other
    indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank
    holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will
    assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank
    regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank.
    Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any
    such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over
    the claims of the institution’s general unsecured
    creditors, including the holders of its note obligations.





Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro rata assessment of
    shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become
    impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in
    such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also
    provides for the enforcement of any such pro rata assessment of
    shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of
    capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital
    stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the
    assessment. As the sole shareholder of the Bank, we are subject
    to such provisions.



Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository
    institution for administrative expenses and the claims of
    holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution are
    accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors
    of such an institution, including the holders of the
    institution’s note obligations, in the event of liquidation
    or other resolution of such institution. Claims of a receiver
    for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insurer of
    such holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes
    and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or
    other resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of
    the Bank.



The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating
    system that emphasizes risk management, introduces a framework
    for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a
    framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of
    non-depository entities of a holding company on its subsidiary
    depository institution(s).



A composite rating is assigned based on the foregoing three
    components, but a fourth component is also rated, reflecting
    generally the assessment of depository institution subsidiaries
    by their principal regulators. Ratings are made on a scale of 1
    to 5 (1 highest) and are not made public. The bank holding
    company rating system, which became effective in 2005, applies
    to us. The composite ratings assigned to us, like those assigned
    to other financial institutions, are confidential and may not be
    directly disclosed, except to the extent required by law.



Emergency
    Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation, Financial Stability Plan, American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009, Homeowner Affordability and Stability
    Plan, Other Regulatory Developments and Pending
    Legislation



Emergency
    Economic Stabilization Act of 2008



On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008 (EESA) was enacted. EESA enables the federal
    government, under terms and conditions developed by the
    Secretary of the Treasury, to insure troubled assets, including
    mortgage-backed securities, and collect premiums from
    participating financial institutions. EESA includes, among other
    provisions: (a) the $700 billion Troubled Assets
    Relief Program (TARP), under which the Secretary of the Treasury
    is authorized to purchase, insure, hold, and sell a wide variety
    of financial instruments, particularly those that are based on
    or related to residential or commercial mortgages originated or
    issued on or before March 14, 2008; and (b) an
    increase in the amount of deposit insurance provided by the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Both of these
    specific provisions are discussed in the below sections. In
    December 2009, the Secretary of the Treasury announced the
    extension of the TARP to October 2010, but indicated that not
    more than $550 billion of the total authorized would
    actually be deployed.



Under the TARP, the Department of Treasury authorized a
    voluntary capital purchase program (CPP) to purchase up to
    $250 billion of senior preferred shares of qualifying
    financial institutions that elected to participate by
    November 14, 2008. Participating companies must adopt
    certain standards for executive compensation, including
    (a) prohibiting “golden parachute” payments as
    defined in EESA to senior Executive Officers; (b) requiring
    recovery of any compensation paid to senior Executive Officers
    based on criteria that is later proven to be materially
    inaccurate; and (c) prohibiting incentive compensation that
    encourages unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the
    value of the financial institution. The terms of the CPP also
    limit certain uses of capital by the issuer, including
    repurchases of company stock, and increases in dividends. In
    late 2009, the Treasury Department announced that the CPP was
    effectively closed, and that certain other emergency programs
    under the TARP had been or would be terminated.





On November 14, 2008, we participated in the CPP and issued
    approximately $1.4 billion in capital in the form of
    non-voting cumulative preferred stock that pays cash dividends
    at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and then
    pays cash dividends at the rate of 9% per annum thereafter. In
    addition, the Department of Treasury received warrants to
    purchase shares of our common stock having an aggregate market
    price equal to 15% of the preferred stock amount. The proceeds
    of the $1.4 billion have been credited to the preferred
    stock and additionalpaid-in-capital.The difference between the par value of the preferred stock and
    the amount credited to the preferred stock account is amortized
    against retained earnings and is reflected in our income
    statement as dividends on preferred shares, resulting in
    additional dilution to our common stock. The exercise price for
    the warrant of $8.90, and the market price for determining the
    number of shares of common stock subject to the warrants, was
    determined on the date of the preferred investment (calculated
    on a 20-trading day trailing average). The warrants are
    immediately exercisable, in whole or in part, over a term of
    10 years. The warrants are included in our diluted average
    common shares outstanding in periods when the effect of their
    inclusion is dilutive to earnings per share.



Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)



EESA temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance
    coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. Separate from
    EESA, in October 2008, the FDIC also announced the Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to guarantee certain debt
    issued by FDIC-insured institutions through October 31,
    2009. Under one component of this program, the Transaction
    Account Guaranty Program (TAGP), the FDIC temporarily provided
    unlimited coverage for noninterest bearing transaction deposit
    accounts through December 31, 2009. The $250,000 deposit
    insurance coverage limit was scheduled to return to $100,000 on
    January 1, 2010, but was extended by congressional action
    until December 31, 2013. The TLGP has been extended to
    cover debt of FDIC-insured institutions issued through
    April 30, 2010, and the TAGP has been extended through
    June 30, 2010. We participated in the TAGP since its
    beginning, and have elected to continue our participation during
    the extension period.



In addition, on February 3, 2009, the Bank completed the
    issuance and sale of $600 million of Floating Rate Senior
    Bank Notes with a variable rate of three month LIBOR plus
    40 basis points, due June 1, 2012 (the Notes). The
    Notes are guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP and are backed
    by the full faith and credit of the United States. The
    FDIC’s guarantee cost $20 million which will be
    amortized over the term of the notes.



(See “Bank Liquidity” discussion for additional
    details regarding the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.)



Financial
    Stability Plan



On February 10, 2009, the Financial Stability Plan (FSP)
    was announced by the U.S. Treasury Department. The FSP is a
    comprehensive set of measures intended to shore up the financial
    system. The core elements of the plan include making bank
    capital injections, creating a public-private investment fund to
    buy troubled assets, establishing guidelines for loan
    modification programs and expanding the Federal Reserve lending
    program. During the course of 2009, the Treasury Department
    announced numerous programs in implementation of the FSP, and
    sent various legislative proposals to the Congress for
    consideration. Summaries of these programs and legislative
    proposals have been posted on a government website,
    FinancialStability.gov. We continue to monitor these
    developments and assess their potential impact on our business.



American
    Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009



On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) was enacted. ARRA is intended to
    provide a stimulus to the U.S. economy in the wake of the
    economic downturn brought about by the subprime mortgage crisis
    and the resulting credit crunch. The bill includes federal tax
    cuts, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social
    welfare provisions, and domestic spending in education,
    healthcare, and infrastructure, including the energy structure.
    The new law also includes numerous non-economic recovery related
    items, including a limitation on executive compensation in
    federally aided banks.





Under ARRA, an institution will be subject to the following
    restrictions and standards throughout the period in which any
    obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP
    remains outstanding:



•Limits on compensation incentives for risk taking by senior
    executive officers.•Requirement of recovery of any compensation paid based on
    inaccurate financial information.•Prohibition on “Golden Parachute Payments”.•Prohibition on compensation plans that would encourage
    manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of
    employees.•Publicly registered TARP recipients must establish a board
    compensation committee comprised entirely of independent
    directors, for the purpose of reviewing employee compensation
    plans.•Prohibition on bonus, retention award, or incentive
    compensation, except for payments of long term restricted stock.•Limitation on luxury expenditures.•TARP recipients are required to permit a separate shareholder
    vote to approve the compensation of executives, as disclosed
    pursuant to the SEC’s compensation disclosure rules.•The chief executive officer and chief financial officer of each
    TARP recipient will be required to provide a written
    certification of compliance with these standards to the SEC.



The foregoing is a summary of requirements included in standards
    established by the Secretary of the Treasury.



Homeowner
    Affordability and Stability Plan



On February 18, 2009, the Homeowner Affordability and
    Stability Plan (HASP) was announced by the President of the
    United States. HASP is intended to support a recovery in the
    housing market and ensure that workers can continue to pay off
    their mortgages through the following elements:



•Provide access to low-cost refinancing for responsible
    homeowners suffering from falling home prices.•A $75 billion homeowner stability initiative to prevent
    foreclosure and help responsible families stay in their homes.•Support low mortgage rates by strengthening confidence in Fannie
    Mae and Freddie Mac.



The Treasury Department has issued extensive guidance on the
    scope and mechanics of various components of HASP. We continue
    to monitor these developments and assess their potential impact
    on our business.



Other
    Regulatory Developments



The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s “Basel
    II” regulatory capital guidelines originally published in
    June 2004 and adopted in final form by U.S. regulatory
    agencies in November 2007 are designed to promote improved risk
    measurement and management processes and better align minimum
    capital requirements with risk. The Basel II guidelines
    became operational in April 2008, but are mandatory only for
    “core banks,” i.e., banks with consolidated total
    assets of $250 billion or more. They are thus not
    applicable to the Bank, which continues to operate under
    U.S. risk-based capital guidelines consistent with
    “Basel I” guidelines published in 1988.



Federal regulators issued for public comment in December 2006
    proposed rules (designated as “Basel IA” rules)
    applicable to non-core banks that would have modified the
    existing U.S. Basel I-based capital framework. In July
    2008, however, these regulators issued,instead of the
    Basel 1A proposals,new rulemaking involving a
    “standardized framework” that would implement some of
    the simpler approaches for both credit risk and operational risk
    from the more advanced Basel II framework. Non-core
    U.S. depository institutions





would be allowed to opt in to the standardized framework or
    elect to remain under the existing Basel 1-based regulatory
    capital framework. The new rulemaking remained pending at the
    end of 2009.



Pending
    Legislation



At the end of 2009, there were numerous legislative proposals,
    originating both in Congressional committees and in the Obama
    Administration, that would, if enacted, have significant impact
    on the banking industry. These proposals include the creation of
    a Consumer Financial Protection Agency with rulemaking,
    examination, and enforcement powers to oversee consumer lending,
    credit card, and other consumer financial activities. The Agency
    would take over certain functions now lodged with banking
    regulators and other agencies. They also include a broad
    financial regulatory reform initiative that would, among other
    things, (a) abolish the thrift charter and convert the
    Office of Thrift Supervision into a division of the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency, (b) establish a Financial
    Stability Council to oversee systemic risk issues,
    (c) extend regulation beyond bank holding companies to
    financial sector companies not presently regulated, including
    hedge funds, and (d) provide a means for resolving, without
    governmental bailouts, entities previously regarded as “too
    big to fail.” We will monitor all legislative developments
    and assess their potential impact on our business.



Dividend
    Restrictions



Dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for
    payment of dividends to our shareholders. However, there are
    statutory limits on the amount of dividends that the Bank can
    pay to us without regulatory approval. The Bank may not, without
    prior regulatory approval, pay a dividend in an amount greater
    than its undivided profits. In addition, the prior approval of
    the OCC is required for the payment of a dividend by a national
    bank if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year
    would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined
    with its retained net income for the two preceding years. As a
    result, for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Bank did
    not pay any cash dividends to Huntington. At December 31,
    2009, the Bank could not have declared and paid any additional
    dividends to the parent company without regulatory approval.



If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a
    bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage
    in an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require,
    after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from
    such practice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank,
    the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged
    in an unsafe or unsound practice if the Bank were to pay
    dividends. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy
    statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding
    companies should generally only pay dividends out of current
    operating earnings. As previously described, the CPP limits our
    ability to increase dividends to shareholders.



FDIC
    Insurance



With the enactment in February 2006 of the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and related legislation, and the
    adoption by the FDIC of implementing regulations in November
    2006, major changes were introduced in FDIC deposit insurance,
    effective January 1, 2007.



Under the reformed deposit insurance regime, the FDIC designates
    annually a target reserve ratio for the DIF within the range of
    1.15 percent and 1.5 percent, instead of the prior
    fixed requirement to manage the DIF so as to maintain a
    designated reserve ratio of 1.25 percent.



In addition, the FDIC adopted a new risk-based system for
    assessment of deposit insurance premiums on depository
    institutions, under which all such institutions would pay at
    least a minimum level of premiums. The new system is based on an
    institution’s probability of causing a loss to the DIF, and
    requires that each depository institution be placed in one of
    four risk categories, depending on a combination of its
    capitalization and its supervisory ratings. Under the base rate
    schedule adopted in late 2006, institutions in Risk Category I
    would be assessed between 2 and 4 basis points, while
    institutions in Risk Category IV could be assessed a
    maximum of 40 basis points.





The FDIC set 2007 assessment rates at three basis points above
    the base schedule rates, i.e., between 5 and 7 basis points
    for Risk Category I institutions and up to 43 basis points
    for Risk Category IV institutions. To assist the transition
    to the new system requiring assessment payments by all insured
    institutions, the Bank and other depository institutions that
    were in existence on and paid deposit insurance assessments
    prior to December 31, 1996, were made eligible for a
    one-time assessment credit based on their shares of the
    aggregate 1996 assessment base. The Bank’s assessment rate,
    like that of other financial institutions, is confidential and
    may not be directly disclosed, except to the extent required by
    law.



For 2008, the FDIC resolved to maintain the designated reserve
    ratio at 1.25 percent, and to leave risk-based assessments
    at the same rates as in 2007, that is between 5 and
    43 basis points, depending upon an institution’s risk
    category.



As a participating FDIC insured bank, we were assessed deposit
    insurance premiums totaling $24.1 million during 2008.
    However, the one-time assessment credit described above was
    fully utilized to substantially offset our 2008 deposit
    insurance premium and, therefore, only $7.9 million of
    deposit insurance premium expense was recognized during 2008.



In late 2008, the FDIC raised assessment rates for the first
    quarter of 2009 by a uniform 7 basis points, resulting in a
    range between 12 and 50 basis points, depending upon the
    risk category. At the same time, the FDIC proposed further
    changes in the assessment system beginning in the second quarter
    of 2009. As amended in a final rule issued in March 2009, the
    changes commencing April 1, 2009, set a five-year target of
    1.15 percent for the designated reserve ratio (which had
    fallen sharply during 2008 and early 2009), and set base
    assessment rates between 12 and 45 basis points, depending
    on the risk category. However, adjustments (relating to
    unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits) were
    provided for in the case of individual institutions that could
    result in assessment rates between 7 and 24 basis points
    for institutions in the lowest risk category and 40 to
    77.5 basis points for institutions in the highest risk
    category. The purpose of the April 1, 2009, changes was to
    ensure that riskier institutions bear a greater share of the
    increase in assessments, and are subsidized to a lesser degree
    by less risky institutions.



In addition to these changes in the basic assessment regime, the
    FDIC, in an interim rule also issued in March 2009, imposed a
    20 basis point emergency special assessment on deposits of
    insured institutions as of June 30, 2009, to be collected
    on September 30, 2009. In May 2009, the FDIC imposed a
    further special assessment on insured institutions of five basis
    points on their June 30, 2009, assets minus Tier 1
    capital, also payable September 30, 2009. And in November
    2009, the FDIC required all insured institutions to prepay, on
    December 30, 2009, slightly over three years of estimated
    insurance assessments.



Taking into account both regular and special deposit insurance
    assessments, we were required to pay total deposit and other
    insurance expense of $113.8 million in 2009. We also
    prepaid an estimated insurance assessment of $325 million
    on December 30, 2009.



The Bank continues to be required to make payments for the
    servicing of obligations of the Financing Corporation (FICO)
    that were issued in connection with the resolution of savings
    and loan associations, so long as such obligations remain
    outstanding.



Capital
    Requirements



The Federal Reserve has issued risk-based capital ratio and
    leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. The
    risk-based capital ratio guidelines establish a systematic
    analytical framework that:



•makes regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences
    in risk profiles among banking organizations,•takes off-balance sheet exposures into explicit account in
    assessing capital adequacy, and•minimizes disincentives to holding liquid, low-risk assets.



Under the guidelines and related policies, bank holding
    companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a
    risk-based asset ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a
    consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is





determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet
    commitments into four weighted categories, with higher weighting
    assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk.
    The risk-based ratio represents capital divided by total risk
    weighted assets. The leverage ratio is core capital divided by
    total assets adjusted as specified in the guidelines. The Bank
    is subject to substantially similar capital requirements.



Generally, under the applicable guidelines, a financial
    institution’s capital is divided into two tiers.
    Institutions that must incorporate market risk exposure into
    their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third tier
    of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated
    debt. These tiers are:



•“Tier 1”, or core capital, includes total equity
    plus qualifying capital securities and minority interests,
    excluding unrealized gains and losses accumulated in other
    comprehensive income, and non-qualifying intangible and
    servicing assets.•“Tier 2”, or supplementary capital, includes,
    among other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock,
    mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt,
    and the allowance for credit losses, up to 1.25% of
    risk-weighted assets.•“Total capital” is Tier 1 plus Tier 2
    capital.



The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators
    require that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except
    originated or purchased mortgage-servicing rights, non-mortgage
    servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships, be
    deducted from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of
    these items included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its
    Tier 1 capital.



Under the risk-based guidelines, financial institutions are
    required to maintain a risk-based ratio of 8%, with 4% being
    Tier 1 capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may
    set higher capital requirements when they believe an
    institution’s circumstances warrant.



Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are
    required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 3%. The
    minimum ratio is applicable only to financial institutions that
    meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset
    quality, high liquidity, low interest rate risk exposure, and
    the highest regulatory rating. Financial institutions not
    meeting these criteria are required to maintain a minimum
    Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.



Special minimum capital requirements apply to equity investments
    in non-financial companies. The requirements consist of a series
    of deductions from Tier 1 capital that increase within a
    range from 8% to 25% of the adjusted carrying value of the
    investment.



Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the
    financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies
    available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include
    limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the
    regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital,
    and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. In
    addition, the financial institution could be subject to the
    measures described below under “Prompt Corrective
    Action” as applicable to “under-capitalized”
    institutions.



The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the
    OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking
    agencies of a bank’s capital adequacy will include an
    assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of
    the bank’s capital due to changes in interest rates. These
    banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest
    rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk
    that rely principally on internal measures of exposure and
    active oversight of risk management activities by senior
    management.



Prompt
    Corrective Action



The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
    1991, known as FDICIA, requires federal banking regulatory
    authorities to take “prompt corrective action” with
    respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum
    capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes
    five capital tiers: “well-capitalized,”
    “adequately-capitalized,”
    “under-capitalized,” “significantly
    under-capitalized,” and “critically
    under-capitalized.”





An institution is deemed to be:



•“well-capitalized” if it has a total risk-based
    capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based
    capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
    of 5% or greater and is not subject to a regulatory order,
    agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital
    level for any capital measure;•“adequately-capitalized” if it has a total risk-based
    capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital
    ratio of 4% or greater, and, generally, a Tier 1 leverage
    ratio of 4% or greater and the institution does not meet the
    definition of a “well-capitalized” institution;•“under-capitalized” if it does not meet one or more of
    the “adequately-capitalized” tests;•“significantly under-capitalized” if it has a total
    risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6%, a Tier 1
    risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3%, or a Tier 1
    leverage ratio that is less than 3%; and•“critically under-capitalized” if it has a ratio of
    tangible equity, as defined in the regulations, to total assets
    that is equal to or less than 2%.



Throughout 2009, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the
    Bank were in excess of the levels established for
    “well-capitalized” institutions.



At December 31,“Well-2009Capitalized”ExcessMinimumsActualCapital(1)(in billions of dollars)Ratios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated5.00%10.09%$2.6Bank5.005.590.3Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.0012.032.6Bank6.006.660.3Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated10.0014.411.9Bank10.0011.080.5









(1)Amount greater than the “well-capitalized” minimum
    percentage.



FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making
    any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend
    or paying any management fee to its holding company, if the
    depository institution would be “under-capitalized”
    after such payment. “Under-capitalized” institutions
    are subject to growth limitations and are required by the
    appropriate federal banking agency to submit a capital
    restoration plan. If any depository institution subsidiary of a
    holding company is required to submit a capital restoration
    plan, the holding company would be required to provide a limited
    guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of
    approval of such plan.



If an “under-capitalized” institution fails to submit
    an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
    “significantly under-capitalized.” “Significantly
    under-capitalized” institutions may be subject to a number
    of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell
    sufficient voting stock to become
    “adequately-capitalized,” requirements to reduce total
    assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent
    banks.



“Critically under-capitalized” institutions may not,
    beginning 60 days after becoming “critically
    under-capitalized,” make any payment of principal or
    interest on their subordinated debt. In addition,
    “critically under-capitalized” institutions are
    subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within
    90 days of becoming so classified.



Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not
    “well-capitalized” is generally prohibited from
    accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on
    deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. As
    previously stated, the Bank is “well-capitalized” and
    the FDICIA brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its
    ability to accept brokered deposits. The Bank had
    $2.1 billion of such brokered deposits at December 31,
    2009.





Financial
    Holding Company Status



In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company,
    a bank holding company’s depository subsidiaries must all
    be both “well capitalized” and “well
    managed,” and must meet their Community Reinvestment Act
    obligations.



Financial holding company powers relate to “financial
    activities” that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in
    coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial
    in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in
    nature, or complementary to a financial activity, provided that
    the complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness
    risk. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act designates certain activities
    as financial in nature, including:



•underwriting insurance or annuities;•providing financial or investment advice;•underwriting, dealing in, or making markets in securities;•merchant banking, subject to significant limitations;•insurance company portfolio investing, subject to significant
    limitations; and•any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be
    closely related to banking.



The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve,
    in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to determine
    that additional activities are financial in nature or incidental
    to activities that are financial in nature.



We are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to obtain
    Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring, directly or
    indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank,
    if, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than 5%
    of its voting stock. However, as a financial holding company, we
    may commence any new financial activity, except for the
    acquisition of a savings association, with notice to the Federal
    Reserve within 30 days after the commencement of the new
    financial activity.



USA
    Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require
    insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain
    other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and
    controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and
    terrorist financing. The statute and its regulations also
    provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between
    federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as
    well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism
    purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when
    reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger
    applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the
    anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.



Customer
    Privacy and Other Consumer Protections



Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other
    financial institutions, are required to:



•provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and
    practices,•inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their
    non-public personal information may be disclosed to
    non-affiliated third parties, and•give our customers an option to prevent disclosure of such
    information to non-affiliated third parties.



Under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, our
    customers may also opt out of information sharing between and
    among us and our affiliates. We are also subject, in connection
    with our lending and leasing activities, to numerous federal and
    state laws aimed at protecting consumers, including the Home
    Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures
    Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act,
    and the Fair Credit Reporting Act.





Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002



The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate
    governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us and all
    other companies having securities registered with the SEC. In
    addition to a requirement that chief executive officers and
    chief financial officers certify financial statements in
    writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other
    matters, the composition and activities of audit committees,
    disclosures relating to corporate insiders and insider
    transactions, codes of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal
    controls over financial reporting.



