Item 1:Business



We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company
    organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in
    Columbus, Ohio. Through the Bank, we have 145 years of
    serving the financial needs of our customers. We provide
    full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking
    services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing,
    equipment leasing, investment management, trust services,
    brokerage services, customized insurance programs, and other
    financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is
    our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2010, the Bank
    had 611 branches as follows:



•344 branches in Ohio•119 branches in Michigan•57 branches in Pennsylvania•50 branches in Indiana•28 branches in West Virginia•13 branches in Kentucky



Select financial services and other activities are also
    conducted in various other states. International banking
    services are available through the headquarters office in
    Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose office located in the
    Cayman Islands, and another limited purpose office located in
    Hong Kong. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any
    individual country, are not significant.



In late 2010, we reorganized the way in which we manage our
    business. Our segments are based on our internally-aligned
    segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results
    and assess performance. For each of our four business segments,
    we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional
    service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue
    and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery
    of a complete set of banking products and services offered by
    larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery, customer
    service, and pricing of these products.



Beginning in 2010, a key strategic emphasis has been for our
    business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products
    and services to our customers to build stronger and more
    profitable relationships using our Optimal Customer Relationship
    (OCR) sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to:



1. Provide a consultative sales approach to provide
    solutions that are specific to each customer.



2. Leverage each business segment in terms of its products
    and expertise to benefit the customer.



3. Target prospects who may want to have their full
    relationship with us.



Following is a description of our four business segments and
    Treasury / Other function:



•Retail and Business Banking — This segment provides
    financial products and services to consumer and small business
    customers located within our primary banking markets consisting
    of five areas covering the six states of Ohio, Michigan,
    Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. Its products
    include individual and small business checking accounts, savings
    accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit,
    consumer loans, and small business loans and leases. Other
    financial services available to consumers and small business
    customers include investments, insurance services, interest rate
    risk protection products, foreign exchange hedging, and treasury
    management services. Retail and





Business Banking provides these services through a banking
    network of over 600 traditional branches and convenience
    branches located in grocery stores and retirement centers. In
    addition, an array of alternative distribution channels is
    available to customers including internet and mobile banking,
    telephone banking, and over 1,300 ATMs.





•Commercial Banking — Our Commercial Banking group
    provides a wide array of products and services to the middle
    market and large corporate client base located primarily within
    our core geographic banking markets. Products and services are
    delivered through a relationship banking model and include
    commercial lending, as well as depository and liquidity
    management products. Dedicated teams collaborate with our
    primary bankers to deliver complex and customized treasury
    management solutions, equipment and technology leasing,
    international services, capital markets services such as
    interest rate protection, foreign exchange hedging and sales,
    trading of securities, and employee benefit programs (insurance,
    410(k)). The Commercial Banking team specializes in serving a
    number of industry segments such as government entities,not-for-profitorganizations, heath-care entities, and large, publicly traded
    companies.





•



•Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home
    Lending — This segment consists primarily of fee-based
    businesses including home lending, wealth management, and
    government finance. We originate and service consumer loans to
    customers who are generally located in our primary banking
    markets. Consumer lending products are distributed to these
    customers primarily through the Retail and Business Banking
    segment and commissioned loan originators. We provide wealth
    management banking services to high net worth customers in our
    primary banking markets and in Florida by utilizing a cohesive
    model that employs a unified sales force to deliver products and
    services directly and through the other segments. We provide
    these products and services through a unified sales team, which
    consists of former private bankers, trust officers, and
    investment advisors; Huntington Asset Advisors, which provides
    investment management services; Huntington Asset Services, which
    offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes;
    retirement plan services, and the national settlements business.
    We also provide banking products and services to government
    entities across our primary banking markets by utilizing a team
    of relationship managers providing public finance, brokerage,
    trust, lending, and treasury management services.



A Treasury / Other function includes our insurance
    brokerage business, which specializes in commercial
    property/casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, life and
    disability and specialty lines. We also provide brokerage and
    agency services for residential and commercial title insurance
    and excess and surplus product lines. As an agent and broker we
    do not assume underwriting risks; instead we provide our
    customers with quality, noninvestment insurance contracts. The
    Treasury / Other function also includes technology and
    operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and
    expense.





The financial results for each of these business segments are
    included in Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion
    of our MD&A.



Competition



Although there has been consolidation in the financial services
    industry, our markets remain competitive. We compete with other
    banks and financial services companies such as savings and
    loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well
    as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment
    financing companies, insurance companies, mutual funds,
    investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and
    outside of our primary market areas. Internet companies are also
    providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition
    for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers. In addition,
    our AFCRE segment faces competition from the financing divisions
    of automobile manufacturers.



We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of
    value and service by building customer relationships as a result
    of addressing our customers’ entire suite of banking needs,
    demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our
    customers. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in
    each of our markets.



We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combination of
    value and service and by providing convenience through a banking
    network of over 600 branches and over 1,300 ATMs within our
    markets and our award-winning website at www.huntington.com. We
    have also instituted new and more customer friendly practices
    under our Fair Play banking philosophy, such as our24-HourGracetmaccount feature introduced in 2010, which gives customers an
    additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer
    account without being charged overdraft fees.



The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share
    based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of
    June 30, 2010, in the top 12 metropolitan statistical areas
    (MSA) in which we compete:



MSARankDepositsMarket Share(in millions)Columbus, OH1$9,12422%Cleveland, OH53,9418Detroit, MI83,6074Toledo, OH12,30623Pittsburgh, PA72,2703Cincinnati, OH51,9994Indianapolis, IN41,9026Youngstown, OH11,87720Canton, OH11,48527Grand Rapids, MI31,28010Akron, OH58868Charleston, WV360411









Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2010 survey.



Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer
    regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas,
    greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In
    addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a
    result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and
    product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service
    providers, bank failures, and the conversion of certain former
    investment banks to bank holding companies.





Regulatory
    Matters



General



We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial
    holding company with the Federal Reserve. We are subject to
    examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve pursuant to
    the Bank Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports
    and other information regarding our business operations and the
    business operations of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve.



Because we are a public company, we are also subject to
    regulation by the SEC. The SEC has established four categories
    of issuers for the purpose of filing periodic and annual
    reports. Under these regulations, we are considered to be a
    large accelerated filer and, as such, must comply with SEC
    accelerated reporting requirements.



The Bank, which is chartered by the OCC, is a national bank, and
    our only bank subsidiary. In addition, we have numerous nonbank
    subsidiaries. Exhibit 21.1 of thisForm 10-Klists all of our subsidiaries. The Bank is subject to
    examination and supervision by the OCC. Its domestic deposits
    are insured by the DIF of the FDIC, which also has certain
    regulatory and supervisory authority over it. Our nonbank
    subsidiaries are also subject to examination and supervision by
    the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subsidiaries of
    the Bank, by the OCC. Our subsidiaries are subject to
    examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in
    the case of certain securities and investment management
    activities, regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority.



In connection with EESA, we sold TARP Capital and a warrant to
    purchase shares of common stock to the Treasury pursuant to the
    CPP under TARP. As a result of our participation in TARP, we
    were subject to certain restrictions and direct oversight by the
    Treasury. Upon our repurchase of the TARP Capital on
    December 22, 2010, we are no longer subject to the
    TARP-related restrictions on dividends, stock repurchases, or
    executive compensation.





In addition to the impact of federal and state regulation, the
    Bank and our nonbank subsidiaries are affected significantly by
    the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control the
    money supply and credit availability in order to influence the
    economy.



As a
    bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial and
    managerial strength to the Bank and the Bank is subject to
    affiliate transaction restrictions.



Under changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company
    must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to
    each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support
    each such subsidiary bank. Under current federal law, the
    Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make
    capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank. It may
    charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and
    unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit
    resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions
    that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank
    holding company’s ability to commit resources to such
    subsidiary bank.





Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are
    subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other
    indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank
    holding company’s bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy
    trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a
    federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a
    subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that
    claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a
    priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s
    general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note
    obligations.



Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of
    shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become
    impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in
    such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also
    provides for the enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of
    shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of
    capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital
    stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the
    assessment. As the sole shareholder of the Bank, we are subject
    to such provisions.



Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository
    institution for administrative expenses and the claims of
    holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution are
    accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors
    of such an institution, including the holders of the
    institution’s note obligations, in the event of liquidation
    or other resolution of such institution. Claims of a receiver
    for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insurer of
    such holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes
    and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or
    other resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of
    the Bank.



The Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions under
    federal laws, which limit certain transactions generally
    involving the transfer of funds by a subsidiary bank or its
    subsidiaries to its parent corporation or any nonbank subsidiary
    of its parent corporation, whether in the form of loans,
    extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases, or
    otherwise undertaking certain obligations on behalf of such
    affiliates. Furthermore, covered transactions which are loans
    and extensions of credit must be secured within specified
    amounts. In addition, all covered transactions and other
    affiliate transactions must be conducted on terms and under
    circumstances that are substantially the same as such
    transactions with unaffiliated entities.



The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating
    system that emphasizes risk management, introduces a framework
    for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a
    framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of
    nondepository entities of a holding company on its subsidiary
    depository institution(s). A composite rating is assigned based
    on the foregoing three components, but a fourth component is
    also rated, reflecting generally the assessment of depository
    institution subsidiaries by their principal regulators. The bank
    holding company rating system, which became effective in 2005,
    applies to us. The composite ratings assigned to us, like those
    assigned to other financial institutions, are confidential and
    may not be disclosed, except to the extent required by law.



In
    2008, we sold TARP Capital and a warrant to purchase shares of
    common stock to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP under TARP. We
    repurchased the TARP Capital in the 2010 fourth
    quarter.



On October 3, 2008, EESA was enacted. EESA includes, among
    other provisions, TARP, under which the Secretary of the
    Treasury was authorized to purchase, insure, hold, and sell a
    wide variety of financial instruments, particularly those that
    were based on or related to residential or commercial mortgages
    originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. Under
    TARP, the Treasury authorized a voluntary CPP to purchase up to
    $250 billion of senior preferred shares of stock from
    qualifying financial institutions that elected to participate.



On November 14, 2008, at the request of the Treasury and
    other regulators, we participated in the CPP by issuing to the
    Treasury, in exchange for $1.4 billion, 1.4 million
    shares of Huntington’s fixed-rate cumulative perpetual
    preferred stock, Series B, par value $0.01 per share, with
    a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (TARP Capital), and
    a ten-year warrant (Warrant), which was immediately exercisable,
    to purchase up to 23.6 million shares of Huntington’s
    common stock (approximately 3% of common shares outstanding at
    December 31, 2010), par value $0.01 per share, at an
    exercise price of $8.90 per share. The securities issued to the
    Treasury were accounted for as additions to our regulatory
    Tier 1 and Total capital. The proceeds were





used by the holding company to provide potential capital support
    for the Bank. This helped the Bank to continue its active
    lending programs for customers. This is evidenced by the
    increase in mortgage originations from $3.8 billion in
    2008, to $5.3 billion in 2009, and $5.5 billion in
    2010.



In connection with the issuance and sale of the TARP Capital to
    the Treasury, we agreed, among other things, to (1) limit
    the payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock,
    (2) limit our ability to repurchase our common stock or our
    outstanding serial preferred stock, (3) grant the holders
    of the TARP Capital, the Warrant, and the common stock to be
    issued under the Warrant certain registration rights, and
    (4) subject ourselves to the executive compensation
    limitations contained in EESA. These compensation limitations
    included (a) prohibiting “golden parachute”
    payments, as defined in EESA, to senior executive officers;
    (b) requiring recovery of any compensation paid to senior
    executive officers based on criteria that is later proven to be
    materially inaccurate; and (c) prohibiting incentive
    compensation that encouraged unnecessary and excessive risks
    that threaten the value of the financial institution.



On December 19, 2010, we sold $920.0 million of our
    common stock and $300.0 million of subordinated debt in
    public offerings. On December 22, 2010, these proceeds,
    along with other available funds, were used to complete the
    repurchase of our $1.4 billion of TARP Capital. On
    January 19, 2011, we repurchased the Warrant for our common
    stock associated with our participation in the TARP CPP for
    $49.1 million, or $2.08 for each of the 23.6 million
    common shares to which the Treasury was entitled. Prior to this
    repurchase, we were in compliance with all TARP standards,
    restrictions, and dividend payment limitations. Because of the
    repurchase of our TARP Capital, we are no longer subject to the
    TARP-related restrictions on dividends, stock repurchases, or
    executive compensation.



We
    have participated in certain extraordinary programs of the
    FDIC.



EESA temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance
    coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This increase
    was made permanent in the Dodd-Frank Act. Separate from EESA, in
    October 2008, the FDIC also announced the TLGP to guarantee
    certain debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions.



On February 3, 2009, the Bank completed the issuance and
    sale of $600 million of Floating Rate Senior Bank Notes
    with a variable interest rate of three month LIBOR plus
    40 basis points, due June 1, 2012 (the Notes). The
    Notes are guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP and are backed
    by the full faith and credit of the United States of America.
    The FDIC’s guarantee costs $20 million which is being
    amortized over the term of these notes.



Under TAGP, a component of the TLGP, the FDIC temporarily
    provided unlimited coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction
    deposit accounts. We voluntarily began participating in the TAGP
    in October of 2008, but opted out of the TAGP effective
    July 1, 2010. Subsequently, both the TLGP and TAGP were
    terminated in light of Section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Act,
    which amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to provide
    unlimited deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing
    transaction accounts beginning December 31, 2010, for a
    two-year period with no opt out provisions.



We are
    subject to capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve
    and these requirements will be changing under the Dodd-Frank
    Act.



The Federal Reserve has issued risk-based capital ratio and
    leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the
    guidelines and related policies, bank holding companies must
    maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset
    ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis.
    The risk-based ratio is determined by allocating assets and
    specified off-balance sheet commitments into four weighted
    categories, with higher weighting assigned to categories
    perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-based ratio
    represents total capital divided by total risk-weighted assets.
    The leverage ratio is core capital divided by total assets
    adjusted as specified in the guidelines. The Bank is subject to
    substantially similar capital requirements.





Generally, under the applicable guidelines, a financial
    institution’s capital is divided into two tiers.
    Institutions that must incorporate market risk exposure into
    their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third tier
    of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated
    debt. These tiers are:



•Tier 1, or core capital, includes total equity plus
    qualifying capital securities and minority interests, excluding
    unrealized gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive
    income, and nonqualifying intangible and servicing assets.•Tier 2, or supplementary capital, includes, among other
    things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock, mandatory
    convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and the
    allowance for credit losses, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.•Total Capital is Tier 1 plus Tier 2 capital.



The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators
    require that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except
    originated or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and
    purchased credit card relationships, be deducted from
    Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items
    included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1
    capital.



Under the risk-based guidelines to remain
    Adequately-capitalized, financial institutions are required to
    maintain a total risk-based ratio of 8%, with 4% being
    Tier 1 capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may
    set higher capital requirements when they believe an
    institution’s circumstances warrant.



Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are
    required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least
    3%. The minimum ratio is applicable only to financial
    institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including
    excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate risk
    exposure, and the highest regulatory rating. Financial
    institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain
    a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.



Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the
    financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies
    available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include
    limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the
    regulatory authority of a directive to increase capital, and the
    termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. In addition, the
    financial institution could be subject to the measures described
    below under Prompt Corrective Action as applicable to
    Under-capitalized institutions.



The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the
    OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking
    agencies of a bank’s capital adequacy will include an
    assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of
    a bank’s capital due to changes in interest rates. These
    banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest
    rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk
    that rely principally on internal measures of exposure and
    active oversight of risk management activities by senior
    management.



FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory authorities to take
    Prompt Corrective Action with respect to depository institutions
    that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these
    purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers:
    Well-capitalized, Adequately-capitalized, Under-capitalized,
    Significantly under-capitalized, and Critically
    under-capitalized.



Throughout 2010, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the
    Bank were in excess of the levels established for
    Well-capitalized institutions. An institution is deemed to be
    Well-capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of
    10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or
    greater, and a Tier 1





leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to a
    regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a
    specific capital level for any capital measure.



Well-At December 31, 2010CapitalizedExcessMinimumsActualCapital(1)(Dollar amounts in billions)Ratios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated5.00%9.41%$2.4Bank5.006.971.0Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.0011.552.4Bank6.008.511.1Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated10.0014.461.9Bank10.0012.821.2









(1)Amount greater than the Well-capitalized minimum percentage.



FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making
    any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend
    or paying any management fee to its holding company, if the
    depository institution would become Under-capitalized after such
    payment. Under-capitalized institutions are also subject to
    growth limitations and are required by the appropriate federal
    banking agency to submit a capital restoration plan. If any
    depository institution subsidiary of a holding company is
    required to submit a capital restoration plan, the holding
    company would be required to provide a limited guarantee
    regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval of
    such plan.



Depending upon the severity of the under capitalization, the
    Under-capitalized institutions may be subject to a number of
    requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell
    sufficient voting stock to become Adequately-capitalized,
    requirements to reduce total assets, cessation of receipt of
    deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making
    any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt.
    Critically Under-capitalized institutions are subject to
    appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90 days of
    becoming so classified.



Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not
    Well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered
    deposits and offering interest rates on deposits higher than the
    prevailing rate in its market. Since the Bank is
    Well-capitalized, the FDICIA brokered deposit rule did not
    adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits. The
    Bank had $1.5 billion of such brokered deposits at
    December 31, 2010.



Under the Dodd-Frank Act, important changes will be implemented
    concerning the capital requirements for financial institutions.
    The “Collins Amendment” provision of the Dodd-Frank
    Act imposes increased capital requirements in the future. The
    Collins Amendment also requires federal banking regulators to
    establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements
    to apply to insured depository institutions, bank and thrift
    holding companies, and systemically important nonbank financial
    companies. These capital requirements must not be less than the
    Generally Applicable Risk-based Capital Requirements and the
    Generally Applicable Leverage Capital Requirements as of
    July 21, 2010, and must not be quantitatively lower than
    the requirements that were in effect for insured depository
    institution as of July 21, 2010. The Collins Amendment
    defines Generally Applicable Risk-based Capital Requirements and
    Generally Applicable Leverage Capital Requirements to mean the
    risk-based capital requirements and minimum ratios of
    Tier 1 capital to average total assets, respectively,
    established by the appropriate federal banking agencies to apply
    to insured depository institutions under the Prompt Corrective
    Action provisions, regardless of total consolidated asset size
    or foreign financial exposure. We will be assessing the impact
    on us of these new regulations as they are proposed and
    implemented.





There
    are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.



Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary
    source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.
    However, there are statutory limits on the amount of dividends
    that the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. The
    Bank may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay a dividend
    in an amount greater than its undivided profits. In addition,
    the prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment of a
    dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends
    declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net
    income for the year combined with its retained net income for
    the two preceding years. As a result, for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, the Bank did not pay any cash dividends
    to us. At December 31, 2010, the Bank could not have
    declared and paid any dividends to the parent company without
    regulatory approval.



Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has requested and
    received OCC approval each quarter to pay periodic dividends to
    shareholders outside the Bank’s consolidated group on
    preferred and common stock of its REIT and capital financing
    subsidiaries to the extent necessary to maintain their REIT
    status. A wholly-owned nonbank subsidiary of the parent company
    owns a portion of the preferred shares of the REIT and capital
    financing subsidiaries. Outside of the REIT and capital
    financing subsidiary dividends, we do not anticipate that the
    Bank will declare dividends during 2011.



If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a
    bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage
    in, an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require,
    after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from
    such practice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank,
    the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged
    in an unsafe or unsound practice if the Bank were to pay
    dividends. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy
    statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding
    companies should generally only pay dividends out of current
    operating earnings.



The
    amount and timing of payments for FDIC Deposit Insurance are
    changing.



In late 2008, under the assessment regime that was applicable
    prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC raised assessment rates
    for the first quarter of 2009 by a uniform 7 basis points
    of adjusted domestic deposits, resulting in a range between 12
    and 50 basis points, depending upon the risk category. At
    the same time, the FDIC proposed further changes in the
    assessment system beginning in the second quarter of 2009. As
    amended in a final rule issued in March 2009, the changes,
    commencing April 1, 2009, set a five-year target of 1.15%
    for the designated reserve ratio, and set base assessment rates
    between 12 and 45 basis points of adjusted domestic
    deposits, depending on the risk category. In addition to these
    changes in the basic assessment regime, the FDIC, in an interim
    rule also issued in March 2009, imposed a 20 basis point
    emergency special assessment on deposits of insured institutions
    as of June 30, 2009, to be collected on September 30,
    2009. In May 2009, the FDIC imposed a further special assessment
    on insured institutions of five basis points on their
    June 30, 2009 assets minus Tier 1 capital, also
    payable September 30, 2009. And in November 2009, the FDIC
    required all insured institutions to prepay, on
    December 30, 2009, slightly over three years of estimated
    insurance assessments.



With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, major changes were
    introduced to the FDIC deposit insurance system. Under the
    Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC now has until the end of September 2020
    to bring its reserve ratio to the new statutory minimum of
    1.35%. New rules amending the deposit insurance assessment
    regulations under the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act have
    been adopted, including a final rule designating 2% as the
    designated reserve ratio and a final rule extending temporary
    unlimited deposit insurance to noninterest bearing transaction
    accounts maintained in connection with lawyers’ trust
    accounts. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted regulations
    effective for the 2011 second quarter assessment and payable in
    September 2011, which outline significant changes in the
    risk-based premiums approach for banks with over
    $10 billion of assets and creates a “Scorecard”
    system. The “Scorecard” system uses a performance
    score and loss severity score, which aggregate to an initial
    base assessment rate. The assessment base also changes from
    deposits to an institution’s average total assets minus its
    average tangible equity. We are





currently evaluating the effect of these new regulations, but do
    not expect the 2011 FDIC assessment impact on our Consolidated
    Financial Statements to be materially higher than the prior
    period.



As a
    financial holding company, we are subject to additional
    regulations.



In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company,
    a bank holding company’s depository subsidiaries must all
    be both Well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet their
    Community Reinvestment Act obligations.



Financial holding company powers relate to financial activities
    that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
    the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial in nature,
    incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or
    complementary to a financial activity, provided that the
    complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness
    risk. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act designates certain activities
    as financial in nature, including:



•lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or
    safeguarding money or securities;•underwriting insurance or annuities;•providing financial or investment advice;•underwriting, dealing in, or making markets in securities;•merchant banking, subject to significant limitations;•insurance company portfolio investing, subject to significant
    limitations; and•any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be
    closely related to banking.



The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve,
    in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to determine
    if additional activities are financial in nature or incidental
    to activities that are financial in nature.



In addition, we are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to
    obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring, directly or
    indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank,
    if, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than 5%
    of its voting stock.



We
    also must comply with anti-money laundering, customer privacy,
    and consumer protection statutes and regulations as well as
    corporate governance, accounting, and reporting
    requirements.



The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require
    insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain
    other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and
    controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and
    terrorist financing. The statute and its regulations also
    provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between
    federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as
    well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism
    purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when
    reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger
    applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the
    anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.



Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like
    all other financial institutions, are required to:



•provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and
    practices,•inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their
    nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to nonaffiliated
    third parties, and•give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of
    such information to nonaffiliated third parties.



Under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, our
    customers may also opt-out of certain information sharing
    between and among us and our affiliates. We are also subject, in
    connection with our





lending and leasing activities, to numerous federal and state
    laws aimed at protecting consumers, including the Home Mortgage
    Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the
    Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, and the
    Fair Credit Reporting Act.



The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate
    governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us and all
    other companies having securities registered with the SEC. In
    addition to a requirement that chief executive officers and
    chief financial officers certify financial statements in
    writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other
    matters, the composition and activities of audit committees,
    disclosures relating to corporate insiders and insider
    transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal
    controls over financial reporting.



In
    2010, we implemented compliance with the Amendment to
    Regulation E dealing with overdraft fees.



In November 2009, the Federal Reserve Board amended
    Regulation E of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to
    prohibit banks from charging overdraft fees for ATM orpoint-of-saledebit card transactions that overdrew the account unless the
    customer opt-in to the discretionary overdraft service and to
    require banks to explain the terms of their overdraft services
    and their fees for the services (Regulation E Amendment).
    Compliance with the Regulation E Amendment was required by
    July 1, 2010. Our strategy to comply with the
    Regulation E Amendment is to alert our customers that we
    can no longer cover such overdrafts unless they opt-in to our
    overdraft service while disclosing the terms of our service and
    our fees for the service.



