Item 1: Business

We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We have 11,964 average full-time equivalent employees. Through the
Bank, we have 148 years of serving the financial needs of our customers. We provide full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust
services, brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2013, the Bank had 16 wealth management offices and 695 branches as follows:



•   403 branches in Ohio•   45 branches in Indiana•   155 branches in Michigan•   30 branches in West Virginia•   51 branches in Pennsylvania•   11 branches in Kentucky

Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International
banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and another located in Hong Kong. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are
not significant.

Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we
monitor results and assess performance. For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model
emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery and customer service.

A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our
OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to:



1.Provide a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer.



2.Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers.



3.Target prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us.

Following is a description of our four business segments and Treasury / Other function:



•Retail and Business Banking– This segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business
customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business loans and leases. Other financial services available to consumer and small business
customers include investments, insurance services, interest rate risk protection products, foreign exchange hedging, and treasury management services. We serve customers primarily through our network of traditional branches in Ohio, Michigan,
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. We also have branches located in grocery stores in Ohio and Michigan. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone
banking, and ATMs.

We established a “Fair Play” banking philosophy and built a
reputation for meeting the banking needs of consumers in a manner which makes them feel supported and appreciated. We believe customers are recognizing this and other efforts as key differentiators and it is earning us more customers and deeper
relationships.

Business Banking is a dynamic and growing part of our business and we are committed to being
the bank of choice for small businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as companies with revenues up to $25 million and consists of approximately 163,000 businesses. We continue to develop products and services that are designed
specifically to meet the needs of small business. We continue to look for ways to help companies find solutions to their capital needs.







•Regional and Commercial Banking– This segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market and large corporate
customers located primarily within our eleven regional commercial banking markets. Products and services are delivered through a relationship banking model and include commercial lending, as well as depository and liquidity management products.
Dedicated teams collaborate with our relationship bankers to deliver complex and customized treasury management solutions, equipment leasing, international services, capital markets services such as interest rate risk protection products, foreign
exchange hedging and sales, trading of securities, and employee benefit programs (insurance, 401(k)). The Commercial Banking team specializes in serving a number of industry segments such as not-for-profit organizations, health-care entities, and
large publicly-traded companies.



•Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate– This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to customers outside
of our normal retail and commercial banking segments. Our products and services include financing for the purchase of automobiles by customers at automotive dealerships, financing the acquisition of new and used vehicle inventory of automotive
dealerships, and financing for land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real estate project financing needs. Products and services are delivered
through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.

The Automotive Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these
dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships, has allowed us to expand into
selected markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation.

The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured by commercial properties. Most of our customers are located within our
footprint.



•Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending– This segment consists of our wealth management, government banking, and home
lending businesses. In wealth management, Huntington provides financial services to high net worth clients in our primary banking markets and Florida. Huntington provides these services through a unified sales team, which consists of private
bankers, trust officers, and investment advisors. Aligned with the eleven regional commercial banking markets, this coordinated service model delivers products and services directly and through the other segment product partners. A fundamental point
of differentiation is our commitment to be in the market, working closely with clients and their other advisors to identify needs, offer solutions and provide ongoing advice in an optimal client experience.

The Government Finance Group provides financial products and services to government and other public sector entities in
our primary banking markets. A locally based team of relationship managers works with clients to meet their trust, lending, and treasury management needs. Closely aligned, our Community Development group serves an important role as it focuses on
delivering on our commitment to the communities Huntington serves.

Home Lending originates and services
consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through the Retail and Business Banking segment, as well as through commissioned
loan originators.

The segment also includes the related businesses of investment management, investment
servicing, custody, corporate trust, and retirement plan services. Huntington Asset Advisors provides investment management services through a variety of internal and external channels, including advising the Huntington Funds, our proprietary family
of mutual funds and Huntington Strategy Shares, our actively-managed exchange-traded funds. Huntington Asset Services offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, administration, and
distribution services. Our retirement plan services business offers fully bundled and third party distribution of a variety of qualified and non-qualified plan solutions.

Treasury / Other function includes our insurance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, life and disability and specialty lines of
insurance. We also provide brokerage and agency services for residential and commercial title insurance and excess and surplus product lines of insurance. As an agent and broker we do not assume underwriting risks; instead we provide our customers
with quality, noninvestment insurance contracts. The Treasury / Other function also includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.

The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are
discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A. We recently announced a reorganization among our executive leadership team, which will become effective during the 2014 first quarter. As a result, management is currently evaluating the
business segment structure which will impact how we monitor future results and assess performance.







Competition

We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment
financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and outside of our primary market areas. Internet companies are also providing
nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers.

We compete for loans
primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a result of addressing our customers’ entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers. We also
consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets.

We compete for deposits similarly on
a basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We have also instituted customer friendly practices, such as our
24-Hour Grace®account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their
consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.

The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based
on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2013, in the top 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) in which we compete:



MSARankDeposits (inmillions)Market ShareColumbus, OH1$14,43628%Detroit, MI74,4785Cleveland, OH44,2618Indianapolis, IN42,8598Pittsburgh, PA82,5123Cincinnati, OH42,1093Youngstown, OH12,08223Toledo, OH22,04522Grand Rapids, MI31,85511Canton, OH21,49425

Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2013 survey.

Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital,
and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers,
bank failures, and the conversion of certain former investment banks to bank holding companies.

Regulatory Matters

We are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB, and other federal and state regulators.

Because we are a public company, we are subject to regulation by the SEC. The SEC has established five categories of
issuers for the purpose of filing periodic and annual reports. Under these regulations, we are considered to be a large accelerated filer and, as such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting requirements.

We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial holding company with the Federal Reserve. We are subject to examination
and supervision by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports and other information regarding our business operations and the business operations of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve.







The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating system that emphasizes risk
management, introduces a framework for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of non-depository entities of a holding company on its subsidiary depository institution(s). The
ratings assigned to us, like those assigned to other financial institutions, are confidential and may not be disclosed, except to the extent required by law.

The Federal Reserve utilizes an updated framework for the consolidated supervision of large financial institutions, including bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The
objectives of the framework are to enhance the resilience of a firm, lower the probability of its failure, and reduce the impact on the financial system in the event of an institution’s failure. With regard to resiliency, each firm is expected
to ensure that the consolidated organization and its core business lines can survive under a broad range of internal or external stresses. This requires financial resilience by maintaining sufficient capital and liquidity, and operational resilience
by maintaining effective corporate governance, risk management, and recovery planning. With respect to lowering the probability of failure, each firm is expected to ensure the sustainability of its critical operations and banking offices under a
broad range of internal or external stresses. This requires, among other things, effective resolution planning that addresses the complexity and the interconnectivity of the firm’s operations.

The Bank, which is chartered by the OCC, is a national bank and our only bank subsidiary. It is subject to examination and supervision by
the OCC and also by the CFPB, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subsidiaries of the Bank, by the OCC. All
subsidiaries are subject to examination and supervision by the CFPB to the extent they offer any consumer financial products or services. Our subsidiaries are subject to examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in the case of
certain securities and investment management activities, regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.

The Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions under federal law, which limit certain transactions generally involving the
transfer of funds by a bank or its subsidiaries to its parent corporation or any nonbank subsidiary of its parent corporation, whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases, or otherwise undertaking certain
obligations on behalf of such affiliates. See also the Volcker Rule discussion below for additional affiliate transaction restrictions.

Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have significant impacts throughout the financial services industry.

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, is complex and broad in scope and several of its provisions are still being implemented. The
Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for monitoring and regulating
systemic risk. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the authority and duties of the federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, implemented certain corporate governance requirements for all public companies including financial
institutions with regard to executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and certain whistleblower provisions, and restricted certain proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks and their affiliates. The
Dodd-Frank Act also required the issuance of numerous implementing regulations, many of which have not yet been issued. The regulations will continue to take effect over several more years, continuing to make it difficult to anticipate the overall
impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general.

In mid-January 2013, the CFPB issued eight final
regulations governing mainly consumer mortgage lending. The first of these rules was issued on January 10, 2013, and included the ability to repay and qualified mortgage rule. This rule imposes additional requirements on lenders, including
rules designed to require lenders to ensure borrowers’ ability to repay their mortgage and took effect January 10, 2014. The same day, the CFPB also finalized a rule on escrow accounts for higher priced mortgage loans and a rule expanding
the scope of the high-cost mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mortgage servicing, which took effect on
January 10, 2014. On January 18, 2013, the CFPB issued a final appraisal rule under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and six agencies including the CFPB, FRB, OCC, FDIC, NCUA, and FHFA issued an interagency rule on appraisals for
higher-priced mortgage loans. On November 20, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rule on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, for which compliance is required by
August 1, 2015. We are evaluating these integrated mortgage disclosure rules to determine their impact on the Bank and its affiliates.

During the 2013 first quarter, the CFPB provided guidance on fair lending practices to indirect automobile lenders with recommendations to ensure compliance with fair lending laws.

Recently, banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used a general consumer protection statute to address unethical or otherwise bad
business practices that may not necessarily fall directly under the purview of a specific banking or consumer finance law. Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, there was little formal guidance to provide insight to the parameters for compliance with the
“unfair or deceptive acts or practices” (UDAP) law. However, the UDAP provisions have been expanded under the Dodd-Frank Act to apply to “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices”, which has been delegated to the CFPB for
supervision.







Large bank holding companies and national banks are required to submit annual capital plans to the
Federal Reserve and OCC, respectively and conduct stress tests.

The Federal Reserve published final amendments to
Regulation Y to require large bank holding companies to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and to require such bank holding companies to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve under certain circumstances before making a
capital distribution. This rule applies to us and all other bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets.

Capital plans for 2014 were required to be submitted by January 6, 2014. The Federal Reserve will either object to a capital plan,
in whole or in part, or provide a notice of non-objection no later than March 31, 2014, for plans submitted by the January 6, 2014 submission date. If the Federal Reserve objects to a capital plan, the bank holding company may not make any
capital distributions other than those with respect to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection. While we can give no assurances as to the outcome or specific interactions with the regulators, based on the Capital Plan we submitted
on January 5, 2014, we believe we have a strong capital position and that our capital adequacy process is robust.

In
addition to the CCAR submission, section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that national banks, like The Huntington National Bank, conduct annual stress tests for submission in January 2014. The results of the stress tests will provide the OCC with
forward-looking information that will be used in bank supervision and will assist the agency in assessing a company’s risk profile and capital adequacy. We submitted our stress test results to the OCC on January 6, 2014.

The regulatory capital rules indicate that common stockholders’ equity should be the dominant element within Tier 1 capital and that
banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1
capital and an indication of the quality of capital.

Final rules have been issued to implement the Volcker Rule.

On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the Volcker Rule
contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally to become effective on July 21, 2015. The Volcker Rule prohibits an insured depository institution and its affiliates (referred to as “banking entities”) from:
(i) engaging in “proprietary trading” and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (“covered funds”) subject to certain limited exceptions. These prohibitions impact the ability of U.S. banking entities to
provide investment management products and services that are competitive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectively prohibits short-term trading strategies by any U.S.
banking entity if those strategies involve instruments other than those specifically permitted for trading.

The final Volcker
Rule regulations do provide certain exemptions allowing banking entities to continue underwriting, market-making and hedging activities and trading certain government obligations, as well as various exemptions and exclusions from the definition of
“covered funds”. The level of required compliance activity depends on the size of the banking entity and the extent of its trading. CEOs of larger banking entities, including Huntington, will have to attest annually in writing that their
organization has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify compliance with the Volcker Rule regulations. Banking entities with significant permitted trading operations will have to report certain quantitative
information, beginning between June 30, 2014 and December 31, 2016, depending on the size of the banking entity’s trading assets and liabilities.

On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust
preferred securities from the investment prohibitions of the Volcker Rule. Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the retention of an interest in or sponsorship of covered funds by banking entities if certain qualifications are met. In
addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of







the interim final rule. At December 31, 2013, we had investments in ten different pools of trust preferred securities. Eight of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers.
We have analyzed the other two pools that were not included on the list and believe that we will continue to be able to own these investments under the final Volcker Rule regulations.

The rules effecting debit card interchange fees under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on October 1, 2011, have negatively impacted our electronic banking income.

The Durbin Amendment, which was section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act, required the Federal Reserve to establish a cap on
the rate merchants pay banks for electronic clearing of debit transactions (i.e. the interchange rate). The Federal Reserve issued final rules, effective October 1, 2011, for establishing standards, including a cap, for debit card interchange
fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions. The final rule established standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers were reasonable and proportional to the costs
incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. Under the final rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction, a 1 cent fraud prevention
adjustment, and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. As a result of implementing this lower debit card interchange fee structure, our electronic banking income was negatively impacted by over $55 million in 2012 when compared
to 2011.

On July 31, 2013, the Federal District Court in the District of Columbia issued a ruling in a lawsuit filed by
a merchant group challenging the validity of the Federal Reserve’s final rule under the Durbin Amendment. The Court ruling vacated the provisions of the Federal Reserve’s final rule relating to standards for debit card interchange fees and
the provision dealing with network non-exclusivity, but stayed its action until further briefing on issues identified by the Court. Eventually, the District Court’s Ruling was appealed to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, where the case is currently pending. If the Court of Appeals rules in favor of the merchants, the Federal Reserve will likely be required to provide even more stringent caps on debit interchange fees, which could adversely impact all banks
that issue debit cards, including us, and which could result in an industry-wide retraction of debit card products and replacement with other card products not subject to the Durbin Amendment. The Federal Reserve and a banking trade organization are
submitting briefs arguing that the Court of Appeals should overrule the District Court and uphold the Federal Reserve’s final rule under the Durbin Amendment. Oral argument before the Court of Appeals was held on January 17, 2014, and an
expedited ruling is anticipated.

There are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.

Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. However, there
are statutory limits on the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay to the holding company. Regulatory approval is required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount greater than its undivided profits or if the total of all dividends
declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus or common stock. As a result of the deficit position of its
undivided profits, prior to December 31, 2013, the Bank could not have declared and paid any cash dividends to the parent company without regulatory approval.

Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has made a capital reduction each quarter to enable payment of periodic dividends to shareholders outside the Bank’s consolidated group on preferred and
common stock of its REIT and capital financing subsidiaries. We anticipate that those subsidiaries, and the Bank will be able to resume normal dividend payments during the first half of 2014.

If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage in, an
unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged
in an unsafe or unsound practice if the Bank were to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating
earnings. Additionally, the Federal Reserve may prohibit bank holding companies from making any capital distributions, including payment of preferred and common dividends, if the Federal Reserve objects to the annual capital plan.

We are subject to the current capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve and final capital rules to implement Basel III that were adopted
in July 2013.

The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding
companies. Under the guidelines and related policies, bank holding companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is determined by
allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet commitments into four weighted categories, with higher weighting assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-based ratio represents total capital divided by total
risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is core capital divided by total assets adjusted as specified in the guidelines. The Bank is subject to substantially similar capital requirements.







On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted to adopt final capital rules implementing
Basel III requirements for U.S. Banking organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and will implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. Consistent with the international Basel framework,
the final rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital (Tier I Common) to risk-weighted assets and a Tier 1 Common capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all supervised financial
institutions. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations. These new minimum capital ratios will become effective for us on
January 1, 2015, and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019.

Following are the Basel III regulatory capital
levels that we must satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the applicable transition period, from January 1, 2015 until January 1, 2019:



Basel III Regulatory Capital LevelsJanuary 1,2015January 1,2016January 1,2017January 1,2018January 1,2019Tier 1 Common4.5%5.125%5.75%6.375%7.0%Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio6.0%6.625%7.25%7.875%8.5%Total risk-based capital ratio8.0%8.625%9.25%9.875%10.5%

The final rule emphasizes Tier 1 Common capital, the most loss-absorbing form of capital, and implements
strict eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The final rule also improves the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity. Banks and regulators use risk weighting to assign different levels of risk
to different classes of assets.

We have evaluated the impact of the Basel III final rule on our regulatory capital ratios and
estimate a reduction of approximately 60 basis points to our Basel I Tier I Common risk-based capital ratio based on our June 30, 2013 balance sheet composition. The estimate is based on management’s current interpretation, expectations,
and understanding of the final U.S. Basel III rules. We anticipate that our capital ratios, on a Basel III basis, will continue to exceed the well capitalized minimum capital requirements. We are evaluating options to mitigate the capital
impact of the final rule prior to its effective implementation date.

Based on our review of the Basel III final rule, it is
likely that when Basel III becomes effective, the HPCI Class C preferred securities will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital for us or the Bank. As such, we determined that a “regulatory capital event” had occurred, based on an opinion of
counsel rendered by a law firm experienced in such matters, and the HPCI board of directors determined to redeem the outstanding Class C preferred securities. HPCI redeemed all $50 million of the Class C preferred securities on
December 31, 2013. The holders of such securities received the redemption price of $25.00 per share.

Based on the final
Basel III rule, banking organizations with more than $15 billion in total consolidated assets are required to phase-out of additional tier 1 capital any non-qualifying capital instruments (such as trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred
shares) issued before September 12, 2010. We will begin the additional tier I capital phase-out our trust preferred securities in 2015, but will be able to include these instruments in Tier II capital as a non-advanced approaches
institution.

Generally, under the currently applicable guidelines, a financial institution’s capital is divided into two
tiers. Institutions that must incorporate market risk exposure into their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third tier of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated debt. These tiers are:



•Tier 1 risk-based capital, or core capital, which includes total equity plus qualifying capital securities and minority interests, excluding unrealized
gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income, and nonqualifying intangible and servicing assets.



•Tier 2 risk-based capital, or supplementary capital, which includes, among other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock, mandatory
convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and the ACL, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.



•Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital.

The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators require that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except originated
or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships intangible assets, be deducted from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1 capital.

Under the risk-based guidelines to remain adequately-capitalized, financial institutions are required to maintain a total
risk-based capital ratio of 8%, with 4% being Tier 1 risk-based capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may set higher capital requirements when they believe an institution’s circumstances warrant.







Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are required to maintain a Tier 1
leverage ratio of at least 3%. The minimum ratio is applicable only to financial institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate risk exposure, and the highest regulatory
rating. Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to
the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. In addition, the
financial institution could be subject to the measures described below under Prompt Corrective Action as applicable to under-capitalized institutions.

The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking agencies of a bank’s capital adequacy will include an assessment of the exposure
to declines in the economic value of a bank’s capital due to changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk that rely principally on
internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk management activities by senior management.

FDICIA requires
federal banking regulatory authorities to take Prompt Corrective Action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized,
adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized.

Throughout
2013, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions. An institution is deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.



At December 31, 2013(dollar amounts in billions)Well-capitalized minimumsActualExcessCapital (1)Ratios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated5.00%10.67%$3.2Bank5.009.972.8Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.0012.283.1Bank6.0011.452.7Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated10.0014.572.3Bank10.0013.141.6



(1)Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend or paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depository
institution would become under-capitalized after such payment. Under-capitalized institutions are also subject to growth limitations and are required by the appropriate federal banking agency to submit a capital restoration plan. If any depository
institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a capital restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval of such plan.

Depending upon the severity of the under capitalization, the under-capitalized institutions may be subject to a number of
requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately-capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making any payment
of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. Critically under-capitalized institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90 days of becoming so classified.

Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering
interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDICIA brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits. The Bank had $1.6 billion of such
brokered deposits at December 31, 2013.







As a bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank
and the Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must
act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and must commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled
subsidiary bank. It may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might
jeopardize the bank holding company’s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.

Any loans by a holding
company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will assume any
commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the
claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations.

Federal law
permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also provides for
the enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment.
As the sole shareholder of the Bank, we are subject to such provisions.

Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured
depository institution for administrative expenses and the claims of holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an institution, including the holders of the
institution’s note obligations, in the event of liquidation or other resolution of such institution. Claims of a receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insurer of
such holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or other resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.

As a financial holding company, we are subject to additional laws and regulations.

In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company, a bank holding company’s depository subsidiaries must all be both
well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet their Community Reinvestment Act obligations.

Financial holding company
powers relate to financial activities that are specified in the Bank Holding Company Act or determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial
in nature, or complementary to a financial activity, provided that the complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness risk. In addition, we are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to
acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than 5% of its voting stock. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new provision to the Bank Holding
Company Act, which requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire a nondepository company having total consolidated assets of $10
billion or more.

We also must comply with anti-money laundering and customer privacy regulations, as well as corporate governance,
accounting, and reporting requirements.

The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require insured
depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. Federal banking regulators are required, when
reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.

Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to:



•provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and practices,



•inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties, and



•give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of such information to nonaffiliated third parties.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us. In addition to
a requirement that chief executive officers and chief financial officers certify financial statements in writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the composition and activities of audit committees, disclosures
relating to corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.







Available Information

This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site ishttp://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site ishttp://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall
Street, New York, New York.

