Item 1: Business

We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We have 11,806 full-time equivalent employees. Through the Bank, we
have 147 years of serving the financial needs of our customers. We provide full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services,
brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had 691 branches as follows:



•   395 branches in Ohio•   49 branches in Indiana•   150 branches in Michigan•   30 branches in West Virginia•   55 branches in Pennsylvania•   12 branches in Kentucky

Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International
banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and another located in Hong Kong. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are
not significant.

Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we
monitor results and assess performance. For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model
emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery and customer service.

A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our
OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to:



1.Provide a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer.



2.Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers.



3.Target prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us.

Following is a description of our four business segments and Treasury / Other function:



•Retail and Business Banking– This segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business
customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business loans and leases. Other financial services available to consumer and small business
customers include investments, insurance services, interest rate risk protection products, foreign exchange hedging, and treasury management services. We serve customers primarily through our network of traditional branches in Ohio, Michigan,
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. We also have branches located in grocery stores in Ohio and Michigan. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone
banking, and over 1,350 ATMs.

We established a “Fair Play” banking philosophy and
built a reputation for meeting the banking needs of consumers in a manner which makes them feel supported and appreciated. We believe customers are recognizing this and other efforts as key differentiators and it is earning us more customers and
deeper relationships.

Business Banking is a dynamic and growing part of our business and we are committed to
being the bank of choice for small businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as companies with revenues up to $25 million and consists of approximately 163,000 businesses. We continue to develop products and services that are designed
specifically to meet the needs of small business. We continue to look for ways to help companies find solutions to their capital needs.







•Regional and Commercial Banking– This segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market and large corporate
customers located primarily within our eleven regional commercial banking markets. Products and services are delivered through a relationship banking model and include commercial lending, as well as depository and liquidity management products.
Dedicated teams collaborate with our relationship bankers to deliver complex and customized treasury management solutions, equipment and technology leasing, international services, capital markets services such as interest rate risk protection
products, foreign exchange hedging and sales, trading of securities, mezzanine investment capabilities, and employee benefit programs (insurance, 401(k)). The Commercial Banking team specializes in serving a number of industry segments such as
not-for-profit organizations, health-care entities, and large publicly-traded companies.



•Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate– This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to customers outside
of our normal retail and commercial banking segments. Our products and services include financing for the purchase of automobiles by customers at automotive dealerships, financing the acquisition of new and used vehicle inventory of automotive
dealerships, and financing for land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real estate project financing needs. Products and services are delivered
through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.

The Automotive Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these
dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships, has allowed us to expand into
selected markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation.

The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured by commercial properties. Most of our customers are located within our
footprint.



•Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending– This segment consists of our wealth management, government banking, and home
lending businesses. In wealth management, Huntington provides financial services to high net worth clients in our primary banking markets and Florida. Huntington provides these services through a unified sales team, which consists of private
bankers, trust officers, and investment advisors. Aligned with the eleven regional commercial banking markets, this coordinated service model delivers products and services directly and through the other segment product partners. A fundamental point
of differentiation is our commitment to be in the market, working closely with clients and their other advisors to identify needs, offer solutions and provide ongoing advice in an optimal client experience.

The Government Finance Group provides financial products and services to government and other public sector entities in
our primary banking markets. A locally based team of relationship managers works with clients to meet their trust, lending, and treasury management needs.

Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed
through the Retail and Business Banking segment, as well as through commissioned loan originators. Closely aligned, our Community Development group serves an important role as it focuses on delivering on our commitment to the communities Huntington
serves.

The segment also includes the related businesses of investment management, investment servicing,
custody, corporate trust, and retirement plan services. Huntington Asset Advisors provides investment management services through a variety of internal and external channels, including advising the Huntington Funds, our proprietary family of mutual
funds and Huntington Strategy Shares, our actively-managed exchange-traded funds. Huntington Asset Services offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, administration, and distribution
services. Our retirement plan services business offers fully bundled and third party distribution of a variety of qualified and non-qualified plan solutions.

Treasury / Other function includes our insurance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, life and disability and specialty lines of
insurance. We also provide brokerage and agency services for residential and commercial title insurance and excess and surplus product lines of insurance. As an agent and broker we do not assume underwriting risks; instead we provide our customers
with quality, noninvestment insurance contracts. The Treasury / Other function also includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.







The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.

Competition

We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and
trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and
outside of our primary market areas. Internet companies are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers.

We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a result of
addressing our customers’ entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets.

We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience
through a banking network of 691 branches and over 1,350 ATMs within our markets and our award-winning website at www.huntington.com. We have also instituted new and more customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace®account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer account
without being charged overdraft fees.

The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of
FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2012, in the top 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) in which we compete:



MSARankDeposits (inmillions)Market ShareColumbus, OH1$13,17128%Detroit, MI74,5385Cleveland, OH54,2128Pittsburgh, PA82,5263Indianapolis, IN42,5087Toledo, OH12,40924Cincinnati, OH42,2373Youngstown, OH12,02122Canton, OH11,56826Grand Rapids, MI41,36910

Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2012 survey.

Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital,
and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers,
bank failures, and the conversion of certain former investment banks to bank holding companies.

Regulatory Matters

We are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB, and other federal and state regulators.

Because we are a public company, we are subject to regulation by the SEC. The SEC has established five categories of
issuers for the purpose of filing periodic and annual reports. Under these regulations, we are considered to be a large accelerated filer and, as such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting requirements.







We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial holding company with the
Federal Reserve. We are subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports and other information regarding our business operations and the business operations of
our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve.

The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating system that emphasizes
risk management, introduces a framework for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of non-depository entities of a holding company on its subsidiary depository institution(s). A
composite rating is assigned based on the foregoing three components, but a fourth component is also rated, reflecting generally the assessment of depository institution subsidiaries by their principal regulators. The bank holding company rating
system, which became effective in 2005, applies to us. The composite ratings assigned to us, like those assigned to other financial institutions, are confidential and may not be disclosed, except to the extent required by law.

On December 17, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued Supervisory Letter SR 12-17, which sets forth an updated framework for the
consolidated supervision of large financial institutions, including bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The objectives of the new framework are to enhance the resilience of a firm, lower the probability of its
failure, and reduce the impact on the financial system in the event of an institution’s failure. With regard to resiliency, each firm is expected to ensure that the consolidated organization and its core business lines can survive under a broad
range of internal or external stresses. This requires financial resilience by maintaining sufficient capital and liquidity, and operational resilience by maintaining effective corporate governance, risk management, and recovery planning. With
respect to lowering the probability of failure, each firm is expected to ensure the sustainability of its critical operations and banking offices under a broad range of internal or external stresses. This requires, among other things, effective
resolution planning that addresses the complexity and the interconnectivity of the firm’s operations.

The Bank, which is
chartered by the OCC, is a national bank, and our only bank subsidiary. It is subject to examination and supervision by the OCC and by the CFPB established by the Dodd-Frank Act. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to examination and
supervision by the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subsidiaries of the Bank, by the OCC. Our subsidiaries are subject to examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in the case of certain securities and investment
management activities, regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.

The Bank is subject to
affiliate transaction restrictions under federal law, which limit certain transactions generally involving the transfer of funds by a subsidiary bank or its subsidiaries to its parent corporation or any nonbank subsidiary of its parent corporation,
whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases, or otherwise undertaking certain obligations on behalf of such affiliates. Furthermore, covered transactions which are loans and extensions of credit must be
secured within specified amounts. In addition, all covered transactions and other affiliate transactions must be conducted on a market terms basis and under circumstances that are substantially the same as such transactions with unaffiliated
entities.

Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have significant impacts throughout the financial services industry.

The Dodd-Frank Act, which is complex and broad in scope, established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and
enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the authority and
duties of the federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, implements certain corporate governance requirements for all public companies including financial institutions with regard to executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and
certain whistleblower provisions, and restricts certain proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks and their affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the issuance of many implementing regulations which will take
effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general.

With the appointment of a director for the CFPB in January 2012, the CFPB began to exercise its full authority under the Dodd-Frank Act. For example, the CFPB completed its first public enforcement
actions regarding unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with marketing, sales and operation of certain add-on products offered in connection with credit cards. Furthermore, in 2012 the CFPB issued its first major regulation, which
covers remittance transfers (international wire transfers) by consumers, which will take effect later in 2013.

In mid-January
2013, the CFPB issued eight final regulations governing consumer mortgage lending. The first of these rules was issued on January 10, 2013, and included the ability to repay and qualified mortgage rule. This rule will impose additional
requirements on lenders, including rules designed to require lenders to ensure borrowers’ ability to repay their mortgage. The same day, the CFPB also finalized a rule on escrow accounts for high-cost mortgages and a rule expanding the scope of
the high-cost mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mortgage servicing, which will take effect on January 10, 2014.
On January 18, 2013, the CFPB issued a final appraisal rule under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and six agencies including the CFPB, FRB, OCC, FDIC, NCUA, and FHFA issued an interagency rule on appraisals for higher-priced mortgage loans. A
final rule on loan originator compensation was released on January 20, 2013, and the industry expects a final rule on integrated mortgage disclosures within the next year. We are evaluating these rules to determine their impact on the Bank and
its affiliates.







Our Tier 1 risk-based capital will be negatively impacted by the Collins Amendment provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act.

Large bank holding companies are now required to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve and conduct stress tests.

The regulatory
capital rules indicate that common stockholders’ equity should be the dominant element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of Tier 1
common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital and an indication of the quality of capital.

Rules have been proposed to implement the Volcker Rule.

In October
2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement the “Volcker Rule” required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule prohibits an insured depository institution and its affiliates from: (i) engaging in “proprietary
trading” and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (“covered funds”) subject to certain limited exceptions. These prohibitions are expected to impact the ability of U.S. banking organizations to provide
investment management products and services that are competitive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The proposed rules would also effectively prohibit short-term trading strategies by any
U.S. banking organization if those strategies involve instruments other than those specifically permitted for trading. We do not anticipate that impacts of the proposed rules will be material to our results of operations or financial position.







The rules effecting debit card interchange fees under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on
October 1, 2011, have negatively impacted our electronic banking income.

The Durbin Amendment required the
Federal Reserve to establish a cap on the rate merchants pay banks for electronic clearing of debit transactions (i.e. the interchange rate). The Federal Reserve issued final rules, effective October 1, 2011, for establishing standards,
including a cap, for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions. The final rule established standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers were
reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. Under the final rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per
transaction, a 1 cent fraud prevention adjustment, and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. As a result of implementing this lower debit card interchange fee structure, our electronic banking income during 2012 was negatively
impacted by over $55 million when compared to 2011.

There are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.

Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. However, there
are statutory limits on the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay to the holding company. Regulatory approval is required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount greater than its undivided profits or if the total of all dividends
declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus or common stock. As a result of the deficit position of its
undivided profits, for the year ended December 31, 2012, the Bank could not have declared and paid any cash dividends to the parent company without regulatory approval.

Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has requested and received OCC approval each quarter for a capital reduction to enable payment of periodic dividends to shareholders outside the Bank’s
consolidated group on preferred and common stock of its REIT and capital financing subsidiaries. A wholly-owned nonbank subsidiary of the parent company owns a portion of the preferred shares of the REIT and capital financing subsidiaries. With the
exception of the REIT and capital financing subsidiary dividends, we do not anticipate that the Bank will declare dividends to the holding company during 2013.

If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage in, an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice
and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if the Bank were to pay dividends.
The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Additionally, the Federal Reserve may prohibit bank
holding companies from making any capital distributions, including payment of preferred and common dividends, if the Federal Reserve objects to the annual capital plan.

We are subject to the current capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve.

The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the guidelines and related policies, bank holding companies must maintain capital
sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet commitments into four weighted categories, with higher
weighting assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-based ratio represents total capital divided by total risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is core capital divided by total assets adjusted as specified in the
guidelines. The Bank is subject to substantially similar capital requirements. Banking regulators are finalizing changes to capital requirements that are expected to incorporate many of the Basel III capital requirements.

Generally, under the currently applicable guidelines, a financial institution’s capital is divided into two tiers. Institutions that
must incorporate market risk exposure into their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third tier of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated debt. These tiers are:



•Tier 1 risk-based capital, or core capital, which includes total equity plus qualifying capital securities and minority interests, excluding unrealized
gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income, and nonqualifying intangible and servicing assets.



•Tier 2 risk-based capital, or supplementary capital, which includes, among other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock, mandatory
convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and the ACL, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.



•Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital.







The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators require that all intangible
assets (net of deferred tax), except originated or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships intangible assets, be deducted from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items included in capital
cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1 capital.

Under the risk-based guidelines to remain adequately-capitalized, financial
institutions are required to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 8%, with 4% being Tier 1 risk-based capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may set higher capital requirements when they believe an institution’s circumstances
warrant.

Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least
3%. The minimum ratio is applicable only to financial institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate risk exposure, and the highest regulatory rating. Financial institutions
not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

Failure to meet applicable capital
guidelines could subject the financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a
directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. In addition, the financial institution could be subject to the measures described below under Prompt Corrective Action as applicable to under-capitalized
institutions.

The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the
banking agencies of a bank’s capital adequacy will include an assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of a bank’s capital due to changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on
interest rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk that rely principally on internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk management activities by senior management.

FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory authorities to take Prompt Corrective Action with respect to depository institutions that do
not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized.

Throughout 2012, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitalized
institutions. An institution is deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to a
regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.



At December 31, 2012(dollar amounts in billions)Well-capitalized minimumsActualExcessCapital (1)Ratios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated5.00%10.36%$3.0Bank5.009.052.2Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.0012.022.9Bank6.0010.492.1Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated10.0014.502.2Bank10.0012.781.3



(1)Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend or paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depository
institution would become under-capitalized after such payment. Under-capitalized institutions are also subject to growth limitations and are required by the appropriate federal banking agency to submit a capital restoration plan. If any depository
institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a capital restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval of such plan.







Depending upon the severity of the under capitalization, the under-capitalized institutions
may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately-capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and
restrictions on making any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. Critically under-capitalized institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90 days of becoming so classified.

Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering
interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDICIA brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits. The Bank had $1.6 billion of such
brokered deposits at December 31, 2012.

In June 2012, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC (collectively, the Agencies) each issued
Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRs) that would revise and replace the Agencies’ current capital rules to align with the BASEL III capital standards and meet certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. Certain requirements of the NPRs would
establish more restrictive capital definitions, higher risk-weightings for certain asset classes, capital buffers and higher minimum capital ratios. The NPRs were in a comment period through October 22, 2012, and those comments are currently
being evaluated by the Agencies.

At the time of the NPR release, we evaluated the impact of the NPRs as proposed on our
regulatory capital ratios and we estimated a reduction of approximately 150 basis points to our BASEL I Tier I Common risk-based capital ratio based on our June 30, 2012 balance sheet composition. We anticipate that our capital ratios, on a
BASEL III basis, would continue to exceed the well-capitalized minimum requirements. We are evaluating options to mitigate the capital impact of the NPRs and will provide further guidance upon issuance of final rules by the Agencies.

As a bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank and the Bank is subject to affiliate
transaction restrictions.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and
managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and must commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank. It may charge the
bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank holding
company’s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.

Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are
subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a
federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general
unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations.

Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata
assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also provides for the enforcement of any such pro-rata
assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment. As the sole shareholder of the Bank,
we are subject to such provisions.

Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative
expenses and the claims of holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an institution, including the holders of the institution’s note obligations, in the
event of liquidation or other resolution of such institution. Claims of a receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insurer of such holders, would receive priority over
the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or other resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.

As a financial holding company, we are subject to additional laws and regulations.

In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company, a bank holding company’s depository subsidiaries must all be both well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet their Community
Reinvestment Act obligations.

Financial holding company powers relate to financial activities that are specified in the Bank
Holding Company Act or determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity, provided that
the complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness risk. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amends the Bank Holding Company Act and designates certain activities as financial in nature, including:



•lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities,







•underwriting insurance or annuities,



•providing financial or investment advice,



•underwriting, dealing in, or making markets in securities,



•merchant banking, subject to significant limitations,



•insurance company portfolio investing, subject to significant limitations, and

•any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments also authorize the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to
determine if additional activities are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature.

In
addition, we are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than
5% of its voting stock. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new provision to the Bank Holding Company Act, which requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to obtain prior approval from
the Federal Reserve to acquire a nondepository company having total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more.

We also must comply
with anti-money laundering and customer privacy regulations, as well as corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements.

The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to
detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The statute and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among
financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering
activities of the applicants.

Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions,
are required to:



•provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and practices,



•inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties, and



•give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of such information to nonaffiliated third parties.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us. In addition to
a requirement that chief executive officers and chief financial officers certify financial statements in writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the composition and activities of audit committees, disclosures
relating to corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.

Available Information

This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site ishttp://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site ishttp://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ
National Market at 33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York.

