Item 1: Business

We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We have15,770average full-time equivalent employees. Through the Bank, we have over 150 years of serving the financial needs of our customers. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31,2017, the Bank had10private client group offices and956branches as follows:

•    458 branches in Ohio•    37 branches in Illinois•    303 branches in Michigan•    31 branches in Wisconsin•    50 branches in Pennsylvania•    25 branches in West Virginia•    42 branches in Indiana•    10 branches in Kentucky

Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant.

Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each of ourfourbusiness segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery and customer service.

A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to:

•Use a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer.

•Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers.

•Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us.

Following is a description of ourfourbusiness segments and a Treasury / Other function:

•Consumer and Business Banking:TheConsumer and Business Bankingsegment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, investments, consumer loans, credit cards and small business loans. Other financial services available to consumer and small business customers include mortgages, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Huntington serves customers through our network of branches in Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking and ATMs.

We have a "Fair Play" banking philosophy; providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer advocacy.  Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses; earning us new customers and deeper relationships with current customers.

Business Banking is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with revenues up to $20 million. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business and look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs.

Home Lending, an operating unit ofConsumer and Business Banking,originates consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are









primarily distributed through theConsumer and Business BankingandRegional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Groupsegments, as well as through commissioned loan originators.Home Lendingearns interest on portfolio loans and loans held-for-sale, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans.Home Lendingsupports the origination of mortgage loans across all segments.

•Commercial Banking:Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market, large corporate, real estate and government public sector customers located primarily within our geographic footprint. The segment is divided into six business units: Middle Market, Specialty Banking, Asset Finance, Capital Markets/ Institutional Corporate Banking, Commercial Real Estate and Treasury Management.

Middle Market primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to companies with annual revenues of $20 million to $500 million. Through a relationship management approach, various products, capabilities and solutions are seamlessly delivered in a client centric way.

Specialty Banking offers tailored products and services to select industries that have a foothold in the Midwest. Each team is comprised of industry experts with a dynamic understanding of the market and industry. Many of these industries are experiencing tremendous change, which creates opportunities for Huntington to leverage our expertise and help clients navigate, adapt, and succeed.

Asset Finance is a combination of our Huntington Equipment Finance, Huntington Public Capital®, Technology and Healthcare Equipment Leasing, and Lender Finance divisions that focus on providing financing solutions against these respective asset classes.

Capital Markets/Institutional Corporate Banking has three distinct product offerings: 1) corporate risk management services, 2) institutional sales, trading, and underwriting, 3) institutional corporate banking. The Capital Markets Group offers a full suite of risk management tools including commodities, foreign exchange, and interest rate hedging services. The Institutional Sales, Trading & Underwriting team provides access to capital and investment solutions for both municipal and corporate institutions.  Institutional Corporate Banking works with larger, often more complex companies with revenues greater than $500 million. These entities, many of which are publicly traded, require a different and customized approach to their banking needs.

The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured by commercial properties. Most of these customers are located within our footprint.  Within Commercial Real Estate, Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to moderate-income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization.

Treasury Management teams help businesses manage their working capital programs and reduce expenses. Our liquidity solutions help customers save and invest wisely, while our payables and receivables capabilities help them manage purchases and the receipt of payments for goods and services. All of this is provided while helping customers take a sophisticated approach to managing their overhead, inventory, equipment, and labor.

•Vehicle Finance:Our products and services include providing financing to consumers for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles and marine craft at franchised and other select dealerships, and providing financing to franchised dealerships for the acquisition of new and used inventory. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners.Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.

The Vehicle Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships has allowed us to expand into select markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation.  With the acquisition of FirstMerit, Huntington also provides financing for the purchase by consumers of recreational vehicles and marine craft on an indirect basis through a series of dealerships.

•Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group:Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Groupis closely aligned with our regional banking markets. A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets.

The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth & Investment Management, and Retirement Plan Services.  The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services.  The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services.  This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate









businesses.  The Huntington Private Client Group also provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services.

The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.

The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note24of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.

Competition

We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and outside of our primary market areas. FinTech startups are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers.

We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a result of addressing our customers’ entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets.

We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We also employ customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace®account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.

The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as ofJune 30, 2017, in the top 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) in which we compete:

MSARankDeposits(in millions)Market ShareColumbus, OH1$22,33234%Cleveland, OH29,27314Detroit, MI57,3586Akron, OH13,86429Indianapolis, IN43,2857Cincinnati, OH42,6232Pittsburgh, PA92,9782Chicago, IL192,3241Toledo, OH12,53524Grand Rapids, MI22,36711Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2017 survey.

Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers, and bank failures.

Financial Technology Companies, or FinTechs, continue to emerge in key areas of banking.  In response, we are monitoring activity in marketplace lending along with businesses engaged in money transfer, investment advice, and money management tools. Our strategy involves assessing the marketplace and determining our near term plan, while developing a longer term approach to effectively service our existing customers and attract new customers. This includes evaluating which products we develop in-house, as well as evaluating partnership options, where applicable.

Regulatory Matters

Regulatory Environment

The banking industry is highly regulated. We are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, CFPB, FDIC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies.  The statutory and regulatory framework that governs us is generally intended to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole.









Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Huntington and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization.

Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased in recent years in response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. President Trump has issued an executive order that sets forth principles for the reform of the federal financial regulatory framework, and the Republican majority in Congress has also suggested an agenda for financial regulatory change. It is too early to assess whether there will be any major changes in the regulatory environment or merely a rebalancing of the post financial crisis framework. The Company expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision.

We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC, as well as the rules of Nasdaq that apply to companies with securities listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

The following discussion describes certain elements of the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to us. This discussion is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to Huntington, the Bank and Huntington’s other subsidiaries.

Huntington as a Bank Holding Company

Huntington is registered as a BHC with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act and qualifies for and has elected to become a FHC under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999.  As a FHC, Huntington is permitted to engage in, and be affiliated with companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC. BHCs are generally restricted to engaging in the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and certain other activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. FHCs may also engage in activities that are considered to be financial in nature, as well as those incidental or complementary to financial activities, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies.  Huntington and the Bank must each remain “well-capitalized” and “well managed” in order for Huntington to maintain its status as a FHC.  In addition, the Bank must receive a CRA rating of at least “Satisfactory” at its most recent examination for Huntington to engage in the full range of activities permissible for FHCs.

Huntington is subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, which serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization. The primary regulators of our non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Federal Reserve exercising a supervisory role. Such non-bank subsidiaries include, for example, broker-dealers registered with the SEC and investment advisers registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities.

The Bank as a National Bank

The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States. As a national bank, the activities of the Bank are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations. The Bank is subject to comprehensive primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. As a member of the DIF, the Bank is also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC.

Supervision, Examination and Enforcement

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of BHCs and banks. In addition, BHCs and banks are subject to periodic reporting and filing requirements.

The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC have broad supervisory and enforcement authority with regard to BHCs and banks, including the power to conduct examinations and investigations, impose nonpublic supervisory agreements, issue cease and desist orders, impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance and appoint a conservator or receiver. In addition, Huntington, the Bank and other Huntington subsidiaries are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the CFPB, which is the primary administrator of most federal consumer financial statutes and Huntington’s primary consumer financial regulator. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions may not be made public.

Bank regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of a banking organization’s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or









regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things, prohibit unsafe or unsound practices, require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, and terminate deposit insurance.

Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Company, its subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC may terminate a bank’s depository insurance upon a finding that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated an applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency.

Bank Acquisitions by Huntington

BHCs, such as Huntington, must obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition that results in the BHC owning or controlling 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank or another BHC.

Acquisitions of Ownership of the Company

Acquisitions of Huntington’s voting stock above certain thresholds are subject to prior regulatory notice or approval under federal banking laws, including the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, a person or entity generally must provide prior notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring the power to vote 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Investors should be aware of these requirements when acquiring shares in our stock.

Interstate Banking

Under the Riegle-Neal Act, a BHC may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the BHC not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the BHC’s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. A national bank, such as the Bank, with the approval of the OCC may open a branch in any state if the law of that state would permit a state bank chartered in that state to establish the branch.

Regulatory Capital Requirements

Huntington and the Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the U.S. Basel III capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve, for Huntington, and by the OCC, for the Bank. These rules implement the Basel III international regulatory capital standards in the United States, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the Federal Reserve and OCC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner.

Under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, Huntington’s and the Bank’s assets, exposures and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions’ risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Huntington and the Bank:

•Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets (net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets and certain other deductions).

•CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders’ equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets and AOCI. Certain of these adjustments and deductions were subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2015 and ended on January 1, 2018. Together with the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and OCC have issued proposed rules that would simplify the capital treatment of certain capital deductions and adjustments, and the final phase-in period for these capital deductions and adjustments has been indefinitely delayed.

•Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments.

•Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities.

The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios are reflected on the following page. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the U.S. Basel III capital rules. For purposes of the Federal Reserve’s Regulation Y, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be an FHC, BHCs, such as Huntington, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater. If the Federal Reserve were to apply the same or a very similar









well-capitalized standard to BHCs as that applicable to the Bank, Huntington’s capital ratios as of December 31, 2017 would exceed such revised well-capitalized standard. The Federal Reserve may require BHCs, including Huntington, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.

Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our operations or financial condition. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Huntington’s or the Bank’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications.

In addition to meeting the minimum capital requirements, under the U.S. Basel III capital rules Huntington and the Bank must also maintain the required Capital Conservation Buffer to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management. The Capital Conservation Buffer is calculated as a ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and it effectively increases the required minimum risk-based capital ratios. The Capital Conservation Buffer requirement is being phased in over a three-year period that began on January 1, 2016. When the phase-in period is complete on January 1, 2019, the Capital Conservation Buffer will be 2.5%. Throughout 2017, the required Capital Conservation Buffer was 1.25%, and the required Capital Conservation Buffer throughout 2018 will be 1.875%. The Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is not impacted by the Capital Conservation Buffer, and a banking institution may be considered well-capitalized while remaining out of compliance with the Capital Conservation Buffer.

The table below summarizes the capital requirements that Huntington and the Bank must satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments (i.e., the required minimum capital ratios plus the Capital Conservation Buffer) during the remaining transition period for the Capital Conservation Buffer:Minimum Basel III Regulatory Capital RatioPlus Capital Conservation BufferJanuary 1, 2017January 1, 2018January 1, 2019CET 1 risk-based capital ratio5.75%6.375%7.0%Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio7.257.8758.5Total risk-based capital ratio9.259.87510.5

The following table presents the minimum regulatory capital ratios, minimum ratio plus capital conservation buffer, and well capitalized minimums compared with Huntington’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2017, calculated using the regulatory capital methodology applicable during 2017.

Minimum Regulatory Capital RatioMinimum Ratio + Capital Conservation Buffer (1)Well-CapitalizedMinimums (2)At December 31, 2017(dollar amounts in billions)ActualRatios:Tier 1 leverage ratioConsolidated4.00%N/AN/A9.09%Bank4.00N/A5.00%9.70CET 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated4.505.75%N/A10.01Bank4.505.756.5011.02Tier 1 risk-based capital ratioConsolidated6.007.256.0011.34Bank6.007.258.0012.10Total risk-based capital ratioConsolidated8.009.2510.0013.39Bank8.009.2510.0014.33

(1)Reflects the capital conservation buffer of 1.25% applicable during 2017. Huntington and the Bank already meet the Capital Conservation Buffer at the fully phased-in level of 2.5%

(2)Reflects the well-capitalized standard applicable to Huntington and the well-capitalized standard applicable to the Bank under Federal Reserve Regulation Y.

Huntington has the ability to provide additional capital to the Bank to maintain the Bank’s risk-based capital ratios at levels which would be considered well-capitalized.

As of December 31, 2017, Huntington’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios were above the well-capitalized standards and met the then-applicable Capital Conservation Buffer and the Capital Conservation Buffer on a fully phased-in basis. Based on current estimates, we believe that Huntington and the Bank will continue to exceed all applicable well-capitalized regulatory capital requirements and the Capital Conservation Buffer, on a fully phased-in basis.









Liquidity Requirements

BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more are subject to a minimum LCR, and BHCs with at least $50 billion but less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, including Huntington, are subject to a less stringent modified version of the LCR. The LCR requires Huntington to meet certain liquidity measures by holding an adequate amount of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets, such as Treasury securities and other sovereign debt, to cover its projected net cash outflows over a 30 calendar-day stress scenario window. Because the LCR assigns less severe outflow assumptions to certain types of customer deposits, banks’ demand for and the cost of these deposits may increase. Additionally, the LCR has increased the demand for direct U.S. government and U.S. government-guaranteed debt that, while high quality, generally carry lower yields than other securities BHCs hold in their investment portfolios. Congress is considering a bill that would require the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to amend the LCR to treat certain investment grade municipal securities as high-quality liquid assets. It is too early to tell whether this bill will become law.

In addition, in May 2016, the federal bank regulatory agencies proposed a Net Stable Funding Ratio rule, which would require large financial firms to meet certain net stable funding measures by funding themselves with adequate amounts of medium- and long-term funding. If finalized as proposed, Huntington would be subject to a less stringent modified version of the Net Stable Funding Ratio.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs with consolidated assets of more than $50 billion, such as Huntington, are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards. As a result, Huntington is subject to more stringent standards, including liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning and risk management standards, than those applicable to smaller institutions. Rules to implement two other enhanced prudential standards—single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements—are still under consideration by the Federal Reserve. Congress is considering a bill that, following an 18-month period, would exempt BHCs with consolidated assets between $100 billion and $250 billion, such as Huntington, from most enhanced prudential standards and would allow the Federal Reserve either to determine that some or all of these standards should be applied to some or all such BHCs or to subject such BHCs to less stringent versions of these standards. It is too early to tell whether this bill will become law and, if so, whether and how the Federal Reserve would exercise its authority.

Capital Planning

Huntington is required to submit a capital plan annually to the Federal Reserve for supervisory review in connection with its annual CCAR process.  Huntington is required to include within its capital plan an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over the nine-quarter planning horizon, a detailed description of the process for assessing capital adequacy, its capital policy, and a discussion of any expected changes to its business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy.

The Federal Reserve expects BHCs subject to CCAR, such as Huntington, to have sufficient capital to withstand a highly adverse operating environment and to be able to continue operations, maintain ready access to funding, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, and serve as credit intermediaries.  In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates the planned capital actions of these BHCs, including planned capital distributions such as dividend payments or stock repurchases. This involves a quantitative assessment of capital based on supervisory-run stress tests that assess the ability to maintain capital levels above certain minimum ratios, after taking all capital actions included in a BHC’s capital plan, under baseline and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon. As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates whether BHCs have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial market stress and whether they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks. We generally may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.  In addition, we are generally prohibited from making a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, we will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios.

Under revised CCAR rules that became effective on March 6, 2017, the Federal Reserve is no longer allowed to object to the capital plan of a large and non-complex BHC, such as Huntington, on a qualitative, as opposed to quantitative, basis. Instead, the Federal Reserve may evaluate the strength of Huntington’s qualitative capital planning process through the regular supervisory process and targeted horizontal reviews of particular aspects of capital planning.

Huntington submitted its 2017 capital plan to the Federal Reserve in April 2017. The Federal Reserve did not object to Huntington’s 2017 capital plan. Huntington is required and intends to submit to the Federal Reserve its capital plan for 2018 by no later than April 5, 2018. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will respond favorably to Huntington’s 2018 capital plan, capital actions or stress test results.









Stress Testing

Huntington is subject to annual supervisory stress tests.  These supervisory stress tests are forward-looking quantitative evaluations of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on Huntington's capital.  Huntington also must conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests, the results of which are filed with the Federal Reserve and publicly disclosed. The Bank is also required to conduct annual company-run stress tests.  The objective of the annual company-run stress test is to ensure that covered institutions have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks and to help ensure that covered institutions have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress.  The results of these annual stress tests must be publicly disclosed.

Congress is considering a bill that would exempt BHCs with consolidated assets between $100 billion and $250 billion, such as Huntington, from company-run stress testing requirements as part of the exemption from enhanced prudential standards described above and allow the federal bank regulatory agencies to decrease the number of stress scenarios involved in the supervisory and company-run stress tests and to decrease the frequency of these stress tests. It is too early to tell whether this bill will become law and, if so, whether and how the federal bank regulatory agencies would exercise their authority in amending the stress test requirements.

Restrictions on Dividends

Huntington is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Since our consolidated net income consists largely of net income of Huntington’s subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares depends upon our receipt of dividends from these subsidiaries. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which the Bank can declare and pay dividends to Huntington, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to Huntington. No assurances can be given that the Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to Huntington.

Huntington’s ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders is similarly limited by federal banking law and Federal Reserve regulations and policy. As discussed in the Capital Planning section above, a BHC may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.

Huntington and the Bank must maintain the applicable CET1 Capital Conservation Buffer to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions, including dividends. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Capital Conservation Buffer will be 2.5%. For more information on the Capital Conservation Buffer, see the Regulatory Capital Requirements section above.

Federal Reserve policy provides that a BHC should not pay dividends unless (1) the BHC’s net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) is sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition of the BHC and its subsidiaries and (3) the BHC will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. Accordingly, a BHC should not pay cash dividends that can only be funded in ways that weaken the BHC’s financial health, such as by borrowing. The policy also provides that a BHC should inform the Federal Reserve reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the BHC’s capital structure. BHCs also are required to consult with the Federal Reserve before increasing dividends or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Additionally, the Federal Reserve could prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by a BHC if it determines that payment of the dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice.

Volcker Rule

Under the Volcker Rule, we are prohibited from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for our own account and (2) having certain ownership interest in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds (covered funds). The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of covered funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of covered funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance and reporting obligations on banking entities, such as us. We have put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and have either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid covered funds.

The five federal agencies implementing the Volcker Rule regulations have approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities if certain qualifications are met.  In addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of the interim final rule. As of December 31, 2017, we had investments in two different pools of trust preferred securities. Both of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers. We have analyzed the pools and believe that we will continue to be able to own these investments under the final Volcker Rule regulations as well.









Recovery and Resolution Planning

As a BHC with assets of $50 billion or more, Huntington is required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan for the orderly resolution of Huntington and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency laws in a rapid and orderly fashion in the event of future material financial distress or failure.  If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly determine that the resolution plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner, they may jointly impose on us more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. If we were to fail to address the deficiencies in our resolution plan when required, we could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Huntington submitted its resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on December 21, 2017. In addition, the Bank is required to periodically to file a separate resolution plan with the FDIC. The public versions of the resolution plans previously submitted by Huntington and the Bank are available on the FDIC’s website and, in the case of Huntington’s resolution plans, also on the Federal Reserve’s website.

Under OCC guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning for insured national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, the Bank must develop and maintain a recovery plan that is appropriate for its individual size, risk profile, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure.  OCC examiners will assess the appropriateness and adequacy of a covered bank’s ongoing recovery planning process as part of the agency’s regular supervisory activities. The Bank is required to comply with this recovery planning requirement by July 1, 2018.

Source of Strength

Huntington is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank and, under appropriate conditions, to commit resources to support the Bank.  This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of Huntington or our shareholders or creditors. The Federal Reserve may require a BHC to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the BHC with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the BHC fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the BHC’s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.

Under these requirements, Huntington may in the future be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should it experience financial distress. Capital loans by Huntington to the Bank would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of the Bank. In the event of Huntington’s bankruptcy, any commitment by Huntington to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of the Bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

FDIC as Receiver or Conservator of Huntington

Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, the FDIC may be appointed as the conservator or receiver of the institution. Under the Orderly Liquidation Authority, upon the insolvency of a BHC, such as Huntington, the FDIC may be appointed as conservator or receiver of the BHC, if certain findings are made by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the President. Acting as a conservator or receiver, the FDIC would have broad powers to transfer any assets or liabilities of the institution without the approval of the institution’s creditors.

Depositor Preference

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, including the Bank, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver would have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If the Bank were to fail, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, would have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including Huntington, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.

Transactions between a Bank and its Affiliates

Federal banking laws and regulations impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including between a bank and its holding company and companies that the BHC may be deemed to control for these purposes.  Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm’s-length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital.  Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the BHC may be required to provide it.  The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the coverage and scope of these regulations, including by applying them to the credit exposure arising under derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions. Federal banking laws also place similar restrictions on loans and other extensions of credit by FDIC-insured banks, such as the Bank, and their subsidiaries to their directors, executive officers and principal shareholders.









Lending Standards and Guidance

The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted uniform regulations prescribing standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. Under these regulations, all insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, must adopt and maintain written policies establishing appropriate limits and standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. These policies must establish loan portfolio diversification standards, prudent underwriting standards (including loan-to-value limits) that are clear and measurable, loan administration procedures, and documentation, approval and reporting requirements. The real estate lending policies must reflect consideration of the federal bank regulatory agencies’ Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies.

Heightened Governance and Risk Management Standards

The OCC has published guidelines to update expectations for the governance and risk management practices of certain large financial institutions, including the Bank.  The guidelines require covered institutions to establish and adhere to a written governance framework in order to manage and control their risk-taking activities. In addition, the guidelines provide standards for the institutions’ boards of directors to oversee the risk governance framework. As discussed in the Risk Management and Capital section of the MDA, the Bank currently has a written governance framework and associated controls.

Anti-Money Laundering

OFAC Regulation

OFAC is responsible for administering economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others, as defined by various Executive Orders and in various legislation. OFAC-administered sanctions take many different forms. For example, sanctions may include: (1) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (2) a blocking of assets in which the government or “specially designated nationals” of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons. OFAC also publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Blocked assets, for example property and bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

Data Privacy

Federal and state law contains extensive consumer privacy protection provisions. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires financial institutions to periodically disclose their privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other federal and state laws and regulations impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires financial institutions to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy









policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. Federal law also makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.

Like other lenders, the Bank and other of our subsidiaries use credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the FCRA, and the FCRA also regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on us and our subsidiaries.

FDIC Insurance

The DIF provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, up to a standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $250,000 per depositor and is funded through assessments on insured depository institutions, based on the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The Bank accepts customer deposits that are insured by the DIF and therefore must pay insurance premiums.  The FDIC may increase the Bank’s insurance premiums based on various factors, including the FDIC’s assessment of its risk profile. Currently, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets, such as the Bank, must pay an assessment surcharge. These banks will be required to pay this surcharge until the earlier of the quarter in which the FDIC’s reserve ratio reaches or exceeds 1.35% or December 31, 2018.  Additionally, on December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which among other things, disallows the deduction of FDIC insurance premiums for tax purposes effective January 1, 2018, where previously  FDIC insurance premiums were fully deductible for tax purposes.

The FDIC recently issued a rule that requires large insured depository institutions, including the Bank, to enhance their deposit account recordkeeping and related information technology system capabilities to facilitate prompt payment of insured deposits if such an institution were to fail. We must comply with these new requirements by April 1, 2020.

Compensation

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies. The scope and content of compensation regulation in the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect that these regulations and resulting market practices will continue to evolve over a number of years.

The federal bank regulatory agencies have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations, such as Huntington and the Bank, do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC to issue regulations or guidelines requiring covered financial institutions, including Huntington and the Bank, to prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. A proposed rule was issued in 2016. Also pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in 2015, the SEC proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. Huntington continues to evaluate the proposed rules, both of which are subject to further rulemaking procedures.

Cybersecurity

The CISA is intended to improve cybersecurity in the United States by enhanced sharing of information about security threats among the U.S. government and private sector entities, including financial institutions. The CISA also authorizes companies to monitor their own systems notwithstanding any other provision of law, and allows companies to carry out defensive measures on their own systems from cyber-attacks. The law includes liability protections for companies that share cyber threat information with third parties so long as such sharing activity is conducted in accordance with CISA.

In October 2016, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued an ANPR regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including us and the Bank. The proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector.

Community Reinvestment Act

The CRA is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and soundness practices. The relevant federal bank regulatory agency, the OCC in the









Bank’s case, examines each bank and assigns it a public CRA rating. A bank’s record of fair lending compliance is part of the resulting CRA examination report.

The CRA requires the relevant federal bank regulatory agency to consider a bank’s CRA assessment when considering the bank’s application to conduct certain mergers or acquisitions or to open or relocate a branch office.  The Federal Reserve also must consider the CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a BHC in connection with any acquisition or merger application filed by the BHC. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay or result in the denial of an approval or application by Huntington or the Bank.

The Bank received a CRA rating of "Outstanding" at its most recent examination.

Transaction Account Reserves

Federal Reserve rules require depository institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts, primarily negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts. For 2017, the first $16 million of covered balances are exempt from the reserve requirement, aggregate balances between $16 million and $122.3 million are subject to a 3% reserve requirement and aggregate balances above $122.3 million are subject to a 10% reserve requirement. These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. The Bank is in compliance with these requirements.

Debit Interchange Fees

We are subject to a statutory requirement that interchange fees for electronic debit transactions that are paid to or charged by payment card issuers, including the Bank, be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer. Interchange fees for electronic debit transactions are limited to 21 cents plus .05% of the transaction, plus an additional one cent per transaction fraud adjustment. These fees impose requirements regarding routing and exclusivity of electronic debit transactions, and generally require that debit cards be usable in at least two unaffiliated networks.

Consumer Protection Regulation and Supervision

We are subject to supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer protection laws. We are also subject to certain state consumer protection laws, and under the Dodd-Frank Act, state attorneys general and other state officials are empowered to enforce certain federal consumer protection laws and regulations. State authorities have recently increased their focus on and enforcement of consumer protection rules. These federal and state consumer protection laws apply to a broad range of our activities and to various aspects of our business and include laws relating to interest rates, fair lending, disclosures of credit terms and estimated transaction costs to consumer borrowers, debt collection practices, the use of and the provision of information to consumer reporting agencies, and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services.

Federal regulators have promulgated a number of other rules governing the provision of credit to consumer borrowers. For example, the CFPB has issued guidance under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act for indirect automobile lenders that have a policy that permits dealers who originate automobile loans to increase the interest rate charged to a consumer and that compensates the dealer with a share of the increased interest revenue. These and other CFPB regulations involve compliance costs for automobile lenders, including the Company.

Federal regulators also have issued regulations that make it more difficult for financial institutions to collect debts owed to them. For example, in 2015, the Federal Communications Commission issued an order interpreting the Telephone Consumer Protection Act that affected the ability to financial institutions like the Company to place telephone calls to borrowers using automated dialing devices, which has increased both the cost of collection and the potential exposure of the Company to lawsuits









for non-compliance with the Act. The CFPB also has indicated an interest in issuing other regulations that would restrict debt collection activities.

Available Information

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information, including any related amendments, filed by us with, or furnished by us to, the SEC are also available free of charge at our Internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the Nasdaq National Market at 33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York 10004.











