10-K


FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

x

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

OR

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
   THE

¨

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from

to

Commission File No. 0-5965

NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
   charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

36-2723087

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

50 South La
     Salle Street

Chicago, Illinois

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (312)
   630-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
   None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
   Act:

Common Stock, $1.66 2/3 Par Value

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series A of NTC Capital I, and
   Series B of NTC Capital II

Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by the
   Registrant

Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures

Series A of the Registrant

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check
   mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
   by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
   preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
   required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
   requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by a
   check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
   Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
   best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
   statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
   amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

At February 10,
   2000, 226,346,774 shares of Common Stock, $1.66


/


par value, were outstanding, and aggregate market
   value of the Common Stock (based upon the last sale price of the common
   stock at February 10, 2000, as reported by The NASDAQ Stock Market) held by
   non-affiliates was approximately $11,520,784,960. Determination of stock
   ownership by non-affiliates was made solely for the purpose of responding to
   this requirement and the registrant is not bound by this determination for
   any other purpose.

Portions of the
   following documents are incorporated by reference:

Annual Report to
     Stockholders for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999 –
      Part I and Part II

2000 Notice and Proxy
     Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders April 18, 2000 –
      Part III

[THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

Northern Trust
   Company

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section
   13 or 15(d) of

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934


PART I

Item 1      Business

Supplemental Item-Executive Officers of the Registrant

Item 2     Properties

Item 3      Legal Proceedings

Item 4      Submission of Matters
   to a Vote of Security Holders

PART II

Item 5      Market for Registrant's
   Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 6      Selected Financial
   Data

Item 7      Management's Discussion
   and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
   About Market Risk

Item 8      Financial Statements
   and Supplementary Data

Item 9      Changes in and
   Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

PART III

Item 10    Directors and Executive Officers
   of the Registrant

Item 11    Executive Compensation

Item 12    Security Ownership of Certain
   Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13    Certain Relationships and Related
   Transactions

PART IV

Item 14    Exhibits, Financial Statement
   Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

Signatures

Exhibit Index

PART I

Item 1

-

Business

NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) was organized
   in Delaware in 1971 and that year became the owner of all of the outstanding
   capital stock, except directors' qualifying shares, of The Northern Trust
   Company (Bank), an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in the Chicago
   financial district and the Corporation's principal subsidiary. The
   Corporation also owns national or state bank subsidiaries in Arizona,
   California, Colorado, Florida and Texas, a Federal Savings Bank, trust
   companies in Connecticut and New York and various other nonbank
   subsidiaries, including a securities brokerage firm, a registered investment
   adviser and a retirement services company. The Corporation expects that,
   although the operations of other subsidiaries will be of increasing
   significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be the
   major source of the Corporation's assets, revenues and net income. Except
   where the context otherwise requires, the term "Northern Trust"
   refers to Northern Trust Corporation and its consolidated
   subsidiaries.

At December 31, 1999, Northern Trust had consolidated
   total assets of approximately $28.7 billion and stockholders' equity of
   approximately $2.2 billion, and was the second largest bank holding company
   headquartered in Illinois and the 30th largest in the United
   States.

THE NORTHERN TRUST
   COMPANY

The Bank was founded by Byron L. Smith in 1889 to
   provide banking and trust services to the public. Currently in its 111th
   year, the Bank's growth has come primarily from internal sources rather than
   through merger or acquisition. At December 31, 1999, the Bank had
   consolidated assets of approximately $23.5 billion and common equity capital
   of approximately $1.7 billion. At September 30, 1999, the Bank was the third
   largest bank in Illinois and the 34th largest in the United States, based on
   consolidated total assets of approximately $28.8 billion on that
   date.

The Bank currently has 19 banking offices in the Chicago
   area, a trust office in Cleveland, Ohio, a representative office in
   Milwaukee, Wisconsin and 10 active wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Northern
   Trust International Banking Corporation, located in New York, was organized
   under the Edge Act for the purpose of conducting international business.
   Norlease, Inc. conducts leasing and leasing-related lending activities. MFC
   Company, Inc. holds properties that are received from the Bank in connection
   with certain problem loans. Nortrust Nominees Ltd., located in London, is a
   U.K. trust corporation organized to hold U.K. real estate for fiduciary
   accounts. The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension Plan Limited, located in
   London, was established in connection with the pension plan for the Bank's
   London Branch. The Northern Trust Company, Canada, located in Toronto,
   offers institutional trust products and services to Canadian entities. The
   Northern Trust Company of Hong Kong Limited provides securities lending and
   relationship servicing for large asset custody clients in Asia and the
   Pacific Rim. Northern Trust Trade Services Limited facilitates the issuance
   and processing of commercial letters of credit in Hong Kong. Northern Trust
   Fund Managers (Ireland) Limited was established to facilitate the offering
   of off-shore collective investment products to institutional clients. NT
   Mortgage Holdings LLC, a real estate investment trust, holds a 100%
   participation in a significant portion of the Bank's residential mortgage
   portfolio, and its parent, NTG Services LLC, conducts market and other
   studies for our global businesses.

OTHER NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION
   SUBSIDIARIES

The Corporation's Florida banking subsidiary, Northern
   Trust Bank of Florida N.A., headquartered in Miami, at December 31, 1999 had
   25 offices located throughout Florida and total assets of approximately $3.5
   billion. The Corporation's Arizona banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank
   of Arizona N.A., is headquartered in Phoenix and at December 31, 1999 had
   total assets of approximately $717 million and served clients from 7 office
   locations in Arizona. The Corporation's Texas banking subsidiary, Northern
   Trust Bank of Texas N.A., headquartered in Dallas, had 7 office locations
   and total assets of approximately $651 million at December 31, 1999. The
   Corporation's California banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of
   California N.A., is headquartered in Santa Barbara. At December 31, 1999, it
   had 11 office locations and total assets of approximately $884 million. The
   Corporation's Colorado banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of Colorado,
   was acquired in 1999. Its one location is in Denver and, at December 31,
   1999, it had total assets of approximately $54 million. The Corporation's
   Federal Savings Bank subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank, FSB, commenced
   operations in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan in 1998. It currently has branch
   offices in Grand Rapids, Michigan and Seattle, Washington and at December
   31, 1999, had total assets of approximately $27 million.

The Corporation has
   several nonbank subsidiaries. Among them is Northern Trust Securities, Inc.
   which provides full brokerage services to clients of the Bank and the
   Corporation's other banking and trust subsidiaries and selectively
   underwrites general obligation tax-exempt securities. Northern Trust
   Retirement Consulting, L.L.C. is a retirement benefit plan services company
   in Atlanta, Georgia. Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc. in Stamford,
   Connecticut is an international provider of institutional investment
   management services and is the parent of The Northern Trust Company of
   Connecticut, and Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is a manager of
   index funds and quantitative investment products. Northern Investment
   Corporation holds certain investments, including a loan made to a developer
   of a property in which the Bank is the principal tenant. The Northern Trust
   Company of New York provides security clearance services for all
   nondepository eligible securities held by trust, agency, and fiduciary
   accounts administered by the Corporation's subsidiaries. Northern Trust
   Cayman International, Ltd. provides fiduciary services to clients
   residing outside of the United States.

INTERNAL ORGANIZATION

Northern Trust, under Chairman and Chief Executive
   Officer William A. Osborn, organizes client services around two principal
   business units: Corporate and Institutional Services and Personal Financial
   Services. Investment products are provided to the clients of those business
   units and others by Northern Trust Global Investments. Each of these three
   business units has a president who reports to President and Chief Operating
   Officer Barry G. Hastings. The president of the Worldwide Operations and
   Technology business unit, which provides trust and banking operations and
   systems activities, also reports to Mr. Hastings. For management reporting
   purposes, the operations of Northern Trust Global Investments and Worldwide
   Operations and Technology are allocated to the other business units. A Risk
   Management unit, which focuses on financial and risk management, reports
   directly to Mr. Osborn.

The following is a brief summary of each unit's business
   activities.

Corporate and Institutional Services (C
   &IS)

Headed by Sheila A. Penrose, President - Corporate and
   Institutional Services, C&IS provides trust, commercial banking and
   treasury management services to corporate and institutional clients. Trust
   activities encompass custody services for owners of securities in the United
   States and foreign markets, as well as securities lending and asset
   management services and recordkeeping services for retirement plans.
   Services with respect to securities traded in foreign markets are provided
   primarily through the Bank's London Branch. Related foreign exchange
   services are rendered at the London and Singapore Branches as well as in
   Chicago. As measured by assets administered and by number of clients,
   Northern Trust is a leading provider of Master Trust and Master Custody
   services to three defined market segments: retirement plans, institutional
   clients and international clients. Master Trust and Custody includes a full
   range of state-of-the-art capabilities including: worldwide custody
   settlement and reporting, cash management, a wide range of investment
   products, securities lending, and performance analysis services. In addition
   to Master Trust and Master Custody, C&IS offers a comprehensive array of
   retirement consulting and recordkeeping services through Northern Trust
   Retirement Consulting, L.L.C. At December 31, 1999, total assets under
   administration, excluding personal trust assets, were $1.39 trillion. The
   Northern Trust Company of New York, The Northern Trust Company, Canada,
   Norlease, Inc., and The Northern Trust International Banking Corporation are
   also included in C&IS.

C&IS offers a full range of commercial banking
   services through the Bank, placing special

emphasis on developing
   institutional relationships in two target markets: large domestic
   corporations and financial institutions (both domestic and international).
   Treasury management services are provided to corporations and financial
   institutions and include a variety of other products and services to
   accelerate cash collections, control disbursement outflows and generate
   information to manage cash positions.

Personal Financial Services
   (PFS)

Headed by Mark Stevens, President - Personal Financial
   Services, PFS encompasses personal trust and investment management services,
   estate administration, banking, commercial middle market lending and
   residential real estate mortgage lending. The Bank's personal financial
   services strategy includes targeting high net worth individuals in the
   metropolitan Chicago and Cleveland markets and, through its Wealth
   Management Group, nationally. The Bank is one of the largest bank managers
   of personal trust assets in the United States, with $48.7 billion in assets
   under management and $97.7 billion in assets under administration at
   December 31, 1999.

PFS services are also delivered through a network of
   national or state bank subsidiaries located in Arizona, California,
   Colorado, Florida and Texas, and a Federal Savings Bank subsidiary in
   Michigan with a branch office in Washington. PFS is one of the largest bank
   managers of personal trust assets in the United States, with $91.6 billion
   in assets under management and $152.0 billion in assets under administration
   at December 31, 1999.

Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is also part of
   PFS.

Northern Trust Global Investments (NTGI)

Headed by Stephen B. Timbers, President - Northern Trust
   Global Investments, NTGI, through various subsidiaries of the Corporation,
   provides investment products and services to clients of C&IS, PFS and
   others. NTGI activities include equity and fixed income research and
   portfolio management services. NTGI, through the Bank and Northern Trust
   Quantitative Advisors, Inc., provides investment advisory and related
   services to two families of proprietary mutual funds: the Northern
   Institutional Funds, which are directed at corporate and institutional
   investors, and the Northern Funds, which are directed at individual and
   personal trust investors. Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc. is also
   included in NTGI.

Worldwide Operations and Technology
   (WWOT)

Headed by James J. Mitchell, President - Worldwide
   Operations and Technology, WWOT supports all of Northern Trust's business
   activities. This unit focuses on supporting sales, relationship management,
   transaction processing and product management activities for C&IS, PFS
   and NTGI. These activities are conducted principally in the operations and
   technology centers in Chicago, Illinois and the Bank's London Branch. The
   Northern Trust Company of New York is also part of this unit.

Risk Management

The Risk Management Unit, headed by Vice Chairman and
   Chief Financial Officer Perry R. Pero, includes the Credit Policy and
   Treasury functions.

The Credit Policy function is described in the sections of this
   report referenced on page 20.

The Treasury Department is responsible for managing the Bank's wholesale
   funding, capital position and interest rate risk, as well as the portfolio
   of interest rate risk management instruments under the direction of the
   Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. It is also responsible for
   the investment portfolios of the Corporation and the Bank and provides
   investment advice and management services to the subsidiary banks.

The Risk Management Unit also includes the Corporate
   Controller, Corporate Treasurer, Investor Relations and Economic Research
   functions.

GOVERNMENT POLICIES

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous
   external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both
   domestic and international, and actions that the United States and foreign
   governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These
   general conditions affect all of the Northern Trust's businesses, as well as
   the quality, value and profitability of their loan and investment
   portfolios.

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is
   an important regulator of domestic economic conditions and has the general
   objective of promoting orderly economic growth in the United States.
   Implementation of this objective is accomplished by its open market
   operations in United States Government securities, its setting of the
   discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks
   and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies
   adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may strongly influence interest rates
   and hence what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay
   on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Fiscal
   policies in the United States and abroad also affect the composition and use
   of Northern Trust's resources.

COMPETITION

Northern Trust's principal business strategy is to
   provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it
   believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As
   part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service to
   its clients that distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition,
   Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of
   fee-based income and is one of a group of major bank holding companies in
   the United States that generates more revenues from fee-based services than
   from net interest income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its
   recurring fee-based revenue by identifying selected market niches and
   providing a high level of individualized service to its clients in those
   markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality through
   established credit review procedures and by maintaining a conservative
   balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to maintain a strong management
   team that includes senior officers having broad experience and long
   tenure.

Active competition exists in all principal areas in
   which Northern Trust presently engages in business. C&IS and PFS compete
   with domestic and foreign financial institutions, trust companies, personal
   loan companies, mutual funds and investment advisers, brokerage firms and
   other financial services companies. Northern Trust is a leading provider of
   Master Trust and Master Custody services and has the leading market share in
   the Chicago area personal trust market and the second largest market share
   in the Florida personal trust market. A banking organization with a strategy
   similar to that of PFS, U.S. Trust Corporation, competes with PFS in
   particular markets and recently agreed to be acquired by The Charles Schwab
   Corporation.

Commercial banking and treasury management services
   compete with domestic and foreign financial institutions, finance companies
   and leasing companies. These products also face increased competition due to
   the general trend among corporations and other institutions to rely more
   upon direct access to the credit and capital markets (such as through the
   direct issuance of commercial paper) and less upon commercial banks and
   other traditional financial intermediaries.

The chief local competitors of the Bank for trust and
   banking business are Bank of America, Bank One, Harris Trust and Savings
   Bank, and LaSalle National Bank. Competitive pressures within the custody
   market have resulted in consolidation in the industry, and the chief
   national competitors of the Bank for Master Trust/Master Custody services
   are now Mellon Bank Corporation, State Street Corporation, Bankers Trust New
   York Corporation, Chase Manhattan Corporation and The Bank of New York
   Company, Inc.

REGULATION AND
   SUPERVISION

Bank Holding Company Act

The Corporation is a bank holding company subject to the
   Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA), and to regulation by
   the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The BHCA limits the
   activities which may be engaged in by the Corporation and its nonbanking
   subsidiaries to those so closely related to banking or managing or
   controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Also, under section
   106 of the 1970 amendments to the BHCA and subject to certain exceptions,
   subsidiary banks are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements
   with nonbanking affiliates in connection with any extension of credit or
   provision of any property or services.

The BHCA also prohibits bank holding companies from
   acquiring substantially all the assets of or owning more than 5% of the
   voting shares of any bank or nonbanking company which is not already
   majority owned without prior approval of the Board of Governors.

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act

On November 12, 1999, President Clinton signed
   into law the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act). The GLB Act significantly
   changes financial services regulation by expanding permissible nonbanking
   activities of bank holding companies and removing barriers to affiliations
   among banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial
   services entities. These new activities can be conducted through a holding
   company structure or, subject to certain limitations, through a financial
   subsidiary of a bank. The GLB Act also establishes a system of federal and
   state regulation based on functional regulation, meaning that primary
   regulatory oversight for a particular activity will generally reside with
   the federal or state regulator designated as having the principal
   responsibility for that activity. Banking is to be supervised by banking
   regulators, insurance by state insurance regulators and securities
   activities by the SEC and state securities regulators. The GLB Act also
   establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other
   provisions, requiring banks to adopt and disclose privacy policies with
   respect to customer information and prohibiting the disclosure of certain
   types of customer information to third parties not affiliated with the bank
   unless the customer has been given an opportunity to block that type of
   disclosure. The GLB Act also requires the disclosure of agreements reached
   with community groups that relate to the Community Reinvestment Act, and
   contains various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of
   financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of
   safety in the financial services industry.

The GLB Act repeals the anti-affiliation
   provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act and revises the BHCA to permit
   qualifying holding companies, called "financial holding companies,
   " to engage in, or to affiliate with companies engaged in, a full range
   of financial activities including banking, insurance activities (including
   insurance underwriting and portfolio investing), securities activities,
   merchant banking and additional activities that are "financial in
   nature," incidental to financial activities or, in certain
   circumstances, complementary to financial activities. A bank holding
   company's subsidiary banks must be "well-capitalized" and
   "well-managed" and have at least a "satisfactory"
   Community Reinvestment Act rating for the bank holding company to elect
   status as a financial holding company. The Corporation's banking
   subsidiaries currently meet these requirements.

A significant component of the functional
   regulation provided in the GLB Act relates to the application of federal
   securities laws and SEC oversight of bank securities activities previously
   subject to blanket exemptions. Among other things, the GLB Act amends the
   definitions of "broker" and "dealer" under the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to remove the blanket exemption for banks.
   Following effectiveness of these amendments in May 2001, banks will be able
   to conduct securities activities without broker-dealer registration only if
   the activities fall within a new set of activity-based exemptions designed
   to allow banks to conduct only those activities traditionally considered to
   be primarily banking or trust activities. Securities activities outside
   these exemptions will, as a practical matter, need to be conducted by a
   registered broker-dealer affiliate. The GLB Act also amends, effective May
   2001, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to require the registration of any
   bank or separately identifiable division of the bank that acts as investment
   adviser for mutual funds.

The Corporation is currently evaluating the
   effects of the GLB Act on its activities. The Bank and the Corporation's
   other banking subsidiaries are currently evaluating their securities
   activities, particularly fiduciary activities, in light of the amendments to
   the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
   discussed above, to determine what, if any, additional registrations may be
   required and whether certain activities currently engaged in by any of the
   banks should instead be conducted by a nonbanking affiliate. The Corporation
   has not elected to become a financial holding company and would expect to do
   so if and when it proposes to conduct, outside a financial subsidiary, one
   of the new activities permitted by the GLB Act. The Corporation does expect
   that the new affiliations and activities permitted financial services
   organizations will over time change the nature of its competition, but it is
   not possible to predict the full nature and effect of the changes that may
   occur.

Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and
   Branching Efficiency Act of 1994

The Interstate Act permits an adequately
   capitalized and adequately managed bank holding company to acquire, with
   Federal Reserve Board approval, a bank located in a state other than the
   bank holding company's home state, without regard to whether the transaction
   is permitted under any state law, except that a host state may establish by
   statute the minimum age of its banks (up to a maximum of 5 years) subject to
   acquisition by out-of-state bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve
   Board may not approve the acquisition if the applicant bank holding company,
   upon consummation, would control more than 10% of total U.S. insured
   depository institution deposits or more than 30% of the host state's total
   insured depository institution deposits except in certain cases. The
   Interstate Act also permits a bank, with the approval of the appropriate
   federal bank regulatory agency, to establish a de novo branch in a state,
   other than the bank's home state, in which the bank does not presently
   maintain a branch if the host state has enacted a law that applies equally
   to all banks and expressly permits all out-of-state banks to branch de novo
   into the host state. Banks having different home states may, with approval
   of the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, merge across state lines,
   unless the home state of a participating bank opted-out of the Interstate
   Act prior to June 1, 1997. Two states opted-out prior to that date: Montana
   and Texas. In addition, the Interstate Act permits any bank subsidiary of a
   bank holding company to receive deposits, renew time deposits, close loans,
   service loans and receive payments on loans and other obligations as agent
   for a bank or certain grandfathered thrift affiliates, whether such banks
   and thrifts are located in a different state or in the same state.

Subsidiary Regulation

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve
   System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC, and it is subject to
   regulation by both these entities, as well as by the Illinois Office of
   Banks and Real Estate. The Bank is also a member of and subject to the rules
   of the Chicago Clearinghouse Association, and is registered as a government
   securities dealer in accordance with the Government Securities Act of 1986.
   As a government securities dealer its activities are subject to the rules
   and regulations of the Department of the Treasury. The Bank is registered as
   a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve and is therefore subject to the
   rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve in this area. State laws
   governing the Corporation's banking subsidiaries generally allow each bank
   to establish branches anywhere in its state.

The national bank subsidiaries are members of
   the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC and are subject to regulation by the
   Comptroller of the Currency. Northern Trust Bank, FSB is a Federal Savings
   Bank which is not a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to
   regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the FDIC. Northern Trust
   Bank of Colorado, a state chartered institution that also is not a member of
   the Federal Reserve System, is regulated by the FDIC and the Colorado
   Division of Banking.

The Corporation's nonbanking affiliates are
   all subject to examination by the Federal Reserve. In addition, The Northern
   Trust Company of New York is subject to regulation by the Banking Department
   of the State of New York. Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is registered as a
   broker-dealer with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is a member of
   the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., and, as such, is
   subject to the rules and regulations of both these bodies. Northern Trust
   Retirement Consulting, L.L.C., Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc.,
   Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc., and Northern Trust Bank, FSB are
   each registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
   Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that Act and the rules
   and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. In addition,
   Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is subject to regulation by the
   Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate, and Northern Trust Retirement
   Consulting, L.L.C. is registered as a transfer agent with the Securities and
   Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject
   to that Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission

promulgated thereunder. The Northern Trust Company of
   Connecticut is subject to regulation by the Connecticut Department of
   Banking. Two families of mutual funds for which the Bank acts as investment
   adviser are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission
   under the Investment Company Act. The Bank also acts as investment adviser
   of an investment company which is subject to regulation by the Central Bank
   of Ireland under the Companies Act, 1990. Various other subsidiaries and
   branches conduct business in other states and foreign countries and are
   subject to their regulations and restrictions.

The Corporation and its subsidiaries are affiliates
   within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act so that the banking
   subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions with respect to loans to
   the Corporation or its nonbanking subsidiaries and certain other
   transactions with them or involving their securities. Information regarding
   these restrictions, and dividend restrictions on banking subsidiaries, is
   incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 titled "Restrictions on
   Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 59 of the
   Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
   1999.

Capital Regulation

Under the FDIC's risk-based insurance assessment system,
   each insured bank is placed in one of nine risk categories based on its
   level of capital and other relevant information. Each insured bank's
   insurance assessment rate is then determined by the risk category in which
   it has been classified by the FDIC. There is currently a 27 basis point
   spread between the highest and lowest assessment rates, so that banks
   classified as strongest by the FDIC are subject in 2000 to no insurance
   assessment, and banks classified as weakest by the FDIC are subject to an
   insurance assessment rate of .27%. In addition to its insurance assessment,
   each insured bank is subject in 2000 to quarterly debt service assessments
   in connection with bonds issued by a government corporation that financed
   the federal savings and loans bailout. The first quarter 2000 debt service
   assessment was .0212%.

The Federal bank regulators have adopted risk-based
   capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks. The minimum ratio
   of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets, including certain
   off-balance sheet items (Total Capital Ratio), is 8%. The minimum ratio of
   "Tier 1 Capital" to risk-weighted assets (Tier 1 Capital Ratio) is
   4%. "Tier 1 Capital" means that portion of total capital that is
   comprised of common stock, related surplus, retained earnings, noncumulative
   perpetual preferred stock, minority interests and, for bank holding
   companies, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred
   stock, less certain intangibles including goodwill. The balance of total
   capital (Tier 2 Capital) may consist of other preferred stock, certain other
   instruments, limited amounts of unrealized gains on equity securities and
   limited amounts of subordinated debt and the loan and lease loss
   allowance.

The Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital standards
   contemplate that evaluation of capital adequacy will consider other factors,
   including overall interest rate exposure; liquidity, funding and market
   risks; the quality and level of earnings; investment, loan portfolio, and
   other concentrations of credit; certain risks arising from nontraditional
   activities; the quality of loans and investments; the effectiveness of loan
   and investment policies; and management's overall ability to monitor and
   control financial and operating risks.

In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum
   Leverage Ratio (Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets) guidelines
   for bank holding companies and banks. These guidelines provide for a minimum
   Leverage Ratio of 3% for bank holding companies and banks that meet certain
   specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All
   other banking organizations are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at
   least 4%. The guidelines also provide that banking organizations
   experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to
   maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum
   supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets.
   Furthermore, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will
   continue to consider a "Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio" in
   evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The Tangible Tier 1
   Leverage Ratio is the ratio of Tier 1 capital, less intangibles not deducted
   from Tier 1 capital, to quarterly average total assets. As of December 31,
   1999, the Federal Reserve had not advised the Corporation of any specific
   minimum Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio applicable to it. At December 31,
   1999, the Corporation had a Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of
   7.1%.

Cross-Guarantees Under the Federal Deposit
   Insurance Act

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
   (FDIA), when two or more insured depository institutions are under common
   control, each of those depository institutions may be liable for any loss
   incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation (FDIC) in connection with the default of any of the others. Each
   may also be liable for any assistance the FDIC provides to the other
   institutions. "Default" means the appointment of a conservator or
   receiver for the institution. Thus, any of the Corporation's banking
   subsidiaries could be liable to the FDIC if the FDIC were to suffer a loss
   in connection with any of the Corporation's other banking subsidiaries. This
   cross-guarantee liability for a loss at a commonly controlled institution
   would be subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured
   obligations, any other general or senior liability and any obligation
   subordinated to depositors or other general creditors, other than
   obligations owed to any affiliate of the depository institution (with
   certain exceptions). Although neither the Corporation nor any of its
   nonbanking subsidiaries may be assessed for such loss under the FDIA, the
   Corporation has agreed to indemnify each of its banking subsidiaries, other
   than the Bank, for any payments a banking subsidiary may be liable to pay to
   the FDIC pursuant to these provisions of the FDIA.

Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation Improvement Act

In addition to the effects of the provisions described
   above, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
   (FDICIA) substantially revised the depository institution regulatory and
   funding provisions of the FDI Act and made revisions to several other
   federal banking statutes.

Under FDICIA, the federal banking regulators must take
   prompt supervisory and regulatory actions against under-capitalized
   depository institutions. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: "well
   capitalized," "adequately capitalized,"
   "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and
   "critically undercapitalized." A depository institution's capital
   tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant
   capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation.
   Under current regulations, an FDIC-insured bank is defined to be well
   capitalized if it maintains a Leverage Ratio (Tier 1 capital to quarterly
   average total assets) of at least 5%, a Total Capital Ratio (qualifying
   total capital to risk-weighted assets, including certain off-balance sheet
   items) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Tier 1 capital to
   risk-weighted assets) of at least 6% and is not otherwise in a
   "troubled condition" as specified by its appropriate federal
   regulatory agency. A bank is generally considered to be adequately
   capitalized if it is not defined to be well capitalized but meets all of its
   minimum capital requirements—that is, if it has a Leverage Ratio of 4%
   or greater (or a Leverage Ratio of 3% or greater if the institution is rated
   in the top category in its most recent report of examination, a Total
   Capital Ratio of 8% or greater and a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 4% or greater.
   A bank will be considered undercapitalized if it fails to meet any minimum
   required measure, significantly undercapitalized if it is significantly
   below that measure and critically undercapitalized if it maintains a level
   of tangible equity capital equal to or less than 2% of total assets. A bank
   may be reclassified to be in the category that is next below that indicated
   by its actual capital position if it receives a less than satisfactory
   examination rating by its examiners with respect to its assets, management,
   earnings, liquidity or sensitivity to market risk that has not been
   corrected, or it is determined that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound
   condition or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice.

At December 31, 1999, the Bank and each of the
   Corporation's other subsidiary banks met or exceeded the minimum regulatory
   ratios that are among the conditions for them to be considered well
   capitalized. For further discussion of regulatory capital requirements and
   information about the capital position of the Corporation and the Bank, see
   pages 42 and 43 of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
   Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 29, titled
   "Regulatory Capital Requirements" on page 71 of the Corporation's
   Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
   1999.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from
   making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying
   any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution
   would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository
   institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a
   capital restoration plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an
   acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly
   undercapitalized.

Under FDICIA, a bank that is not well capitalized is
   generally prohibited from accepting or renewing brokered deposits, except
   with a waiver from the FDIC, and offering interest rates on brokered
   deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market
   area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited); in
   addition, "pass-through" insurance coverage may not be available
   for certain employee benefit accounts.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions
   may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including
   orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized,
   requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits
   from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository
   institutions may be restricted from making payments of principal and
   interest on subordinated debt and are subject to appointment of a receiver
   or conservator.

STAFF

Northern Trust employed 8,583 full-time equivalent
   officers and staff members as of December 31, 1999, approximately 6,256 of
   whom were employed by the Bank.

STATISTICAL
   DISCLOSURES

The following statistical disclosures, included in the
   Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
   1999, are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional statistical information on a consolidated
   basis is set forth below.

Remaining Maturity and Average
   Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale

(Yield calculated on amortized cost and presented on a taxable equivalent
   basis giving effect of the federal and state tax rates)

Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale

Average Deposits by Type

Average Rates Paid on
   Time Deposits by Type

Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 and more

Purchased Funds

Changes in Net
   Interest Income

International Operations (Based
   on Obligor's Domicile)

See also Note 27 titled
   "Business Segments and Related Information" on page 70 of the
   Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
   1999, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Selected Average Assets and
   Liabilities Attributable to International Operations

Percent of International Related Average Assets and
   Liabilities to Total Consolidated Average Assets

Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International
   Operations

The Securities
   and Exchange Commission requires the disclosure of th

e reserve for credit losses that is
   applicable to international operations. The above table has been prepared in
   compliance with this disclosure requirement and is used in determining
   international operating performance. The amounts shown in the table should
   not be construed as being the only amounts that are available for
   international loan charge-offs, since the entire reserve for credit losses
   is available to absorb losses on both domestic and international loans. In
   addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future
   charge-off

trends

.

Distribution of International Loans and
   Deposits by Type

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

For the discussion of Credit Risk
    Management, see the following information that is incorporated herein by
    reference to the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1999:

In addition, the schedules on pages 18 and
    19 of this Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the "Credit
    Risk Management" section:

Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses

Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International
    Operations

Distribution of International Loans and Deposits by Type

INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see
    the section entitled "Market Risk Management" on pages 40 to 42
    of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
    of Operations of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
    year ended December 31, 1999, which is incorporated herein by
    reference.

The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and
    Consolidated Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were
    prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    are provided here for informational purposes. These consolidated financial
    statements should be read in conjunction with the

footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements,

included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference on page 27 of
    this Form 10-K.

Supplemental Item-Executive Officers of the Registrant

WILLIAM A. OSBORN

Mr. Osborn became Chairman of the Board of the
    Corporation and the Bank in October 1995, and Chief Executive Officer of
    the Corporation and the Bank in June 1995. He held the title of President
    of the Corporation and the Bank from January 1994 to October 1995 and Chief
    Operating Officer from January 1994 through June 1995. Mr. Osborn, 52,
    began his career with the Bank in 1970.

BARRY G. HASTINGS

Mr. Hastings became President of the Corporation and
    the Bank in October 1995, and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation
    and the Bank in June 1995. He held the title of Vice Chairman of the
    Corporation and the Bank from January 1994 through June 1995. Mr. Hastings,
    52, began his career with the Corporation in 1974.

DAVID L. EDDY

Mr. Eddy became a Senior Vice President of the
    Corporation and the Bank and Treasurer of the Corporation in 1986. Mr.
    Eddy, 63, joined the Bank in 1960.

JAMES J. MITCHELL

Mr. Mitchell became President - Worldwide Operations
    and Technology of the Corporation and the Bank in September 1999, and has
    served as an Executive Vice President of the Bank since December 1987 and
    of the Corporation since October 1994. Mr. Mitchell, 57, joined the Bank in
    1964.

SHEILA A. PENROSE

Ms. Penrose became President - C&IS of the
    Corporation and the Bank in January 1998, and has served as an Executive
    Vice President of the Bank since November 1993 and of the Corporation since
    November 1994. Ms. Penrose, 54, began her career with the Corporation in
    1977.

PERRY R. PERO

Mr. Pero became Vice Chairman of the Corporation and
    the Bank in September 1999, and has served as Chief Financial Officer of
    the Corporation and the Bank and Cashier of the Bank since September 1988.
    Mr. Pero is also head of the Risk Management Unit and Chairman of the
    Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. He held the title of Senior
    Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank from 1992 until
    September 1999. Mr. Pero, 60, joined the Bank in 1964.

PETER L. ROSSITER

Mr. Rossiter has served as Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel of the Corporation and the Bank since 1993. He also held
    the title of Secretary of the Corporation and the Bank from April 1993
    through November 1997 and has served as an Assistant Secretary since then.
    Mr. Rossiter, 51, joined the Corporation in 1992, prior to which he was a
    partner in the law firm of Schiff Hardin & Waite.

HARRY W. SHORT

Mr. Short became an Executive Vice President of the
    Corporation and the Bank in September 1999, and has served as Controller of
    the Corporation and the Bank since October 1994. He held the title of
    Senior Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank from 1990 through
    September 1999. Mr. Short, 52, joined the Corporation and the Bank in 1990,
    prior to which he was a partner in the accounting firm of KPMG Peat
    Marwick.

JAMES M. SNYDER

Mr. Snyder was appointed Executive Vice President of
    the Corporation and the Bank in November 1996 and served as Chief
    Investment Officer from September 1995. He was also named Vice Chairman of
    the Northern Trust Global Investments Business Unit in February 2000. He
    had been a Senior Vice President of the Bank from 1991 to 1996. Mr. Snyder,
    53, joined the Bank in 1969.

MARK
    STEVENS

Mr. Stevens became President - PFS of the Corporation
    and the Bank in January 1998, and has served as an Executive Vice President
    of the Corporation and the Bank since February 1996. He served as Chief
    Executive Officer of Northern Trust Bank of Florida N.A., from 1987 to
    1996. Mr. Stevens, 52, joined the Corporation in 1979.

STEPHEN B. TIMBERS

Mr. Timbers joined Northern Trust in February 1998,
    when he was named President - NTGI and an Executive Vice President of the
    Corporation and the Bank. From January 1996 to December 1997, Mr. Timbers,
    55, was President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of
    Zurich Kemper Investments, Inc. (formerly Kemper Financial Services, Inc.),
    the investment adviser to the Kemper Funds and the parent organization of
    Zurich Investment Management, Inc. From January 1992 until January 1996, he
    served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Kemper
    Corporation.

WILLIAM S. TRUKENBROD

Mr. Trukenbrod was appointed an Executive Vice
    President of the Corporation and the Bank in February 1994, and is
    currently Chairman of the Credit Policy Committee. Mr. Trukenbrod, 60,
    joined the Bank in 1962.

The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
    Officer and President are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the
    first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of
    stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board.
    Officers continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or
    until their death, resignation or removal by the Board.

Item 2-Properties

The executive offices of the Corporation and the Bank
    are located at 50 South LaSalle Street in the financial district of
    Chicago. This Bank-owned building is occupied by various divisions of
    Northern Trust's business units. Financial services are provided by the
    Bank at this location. Adjacent to this building are two office buildings
    in which the Bank leases approximately 370,000 square feet of space
    principally for staff divisions of the business units. The Bank also leases
    approximately 40,000 square feet of a building at 125 South Wacker Drive in
    Chicago for banking operations and personal banking services. Financial
    services are also provided by the Bank at seventeen other Chicago
    metropolitan area locations, five of which are owned and twelve of which
    are leased. The Bank's trust and banking operations are located in a
    465,000 square foot facility at 801 South Canal Street in Chicago. The
    building is leased by the Corporation under terms that qualify as a capital
    lease. In January 2000, the Bank closed on an agreement to purchase a
    building and adjacent land located across the street from the Chicago
    operations center. The building, which is located at 840 South Canal Street
    and contains approximately 340,000 square feet of office space, houses the
    computer data center and will be used for future expansion. Prior to the
    purchase date, the Bank leased under the agreement, in phases that began in
    November 1997, approximately 130,000 square feet of the building. Space for
    the Bank's London and Singapore Branches, Edge Act subsidiary and The
    Northern Trust Company, Canada are leased.

The Corporation's other subsidiaries operate from
    seventy-one locations, fourteen of which are owned and fifty-seven of which
    are leased. Detailed information regarding the addresses of all Northern
    Trust's locations can be found on pages 80 and 81 in the Corporation's
    Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, which
    is incorporated herein by reference.

The Corporation believes that its owned and leased
    facilities are suitable and adequate for its business needs. For additional
    information relating to properties and lease commitments, refer to Note 8
    titled "Buildings and Equipment" and Note 9 titled "Lease
    Commitments" on page 54 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
    Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 3-Legal Proceedings

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to Note 20 titled "Contingent Liabilities" on
    page 63 of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1999.

Item 4-Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

PART II

Item 5-Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to the section of the Consolidated Financial Statistics
    titled "Common Stock Dividend and Market Price" on page 75 of the
    Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
    1999.

Information regarding dividend restrictions of the
    Corporation's banking subsidiaries is incorporated herein by reference to
    Note 15 titled "Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or
    Advances" on page 59 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
    Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999.

Item 6-Selected Financial Data

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to the table titled "Summary of Selected
    Consolidated Financial Data" on page 23 of the Corporation's Annual
    Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999.

Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
    Results of Operations

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 23 through 44
    of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
    December 31, 1999.

Item 7A-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 40 through 42
    of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
    December 31, 1999.

Item 8-Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The following financial statements of the Corporation
    and its subsidiaries included in the Corporation's Annual Report to
    Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, are incorporated herein
    by reference.

The section titled "Quarterly Financial Data"
    on page 75 of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9-Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10-Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information called for by Item 10 relating to
    Directors and Nominees for election to the Board of Directors is
    incorporated herein by reference to pages 3 through 6 of the Corporation's
    definitive 2000 Notice and Proxy Statement filed on March 13, 2000 in
    connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders to be held April 18, 2000. The information called for by Item
    10 relating to Executive Officers is set forth in Part I of this Annual
    Report on Form 10-K. The information called for by Item 10 relating to Item
    405 disclosure of delinquent Form 3, 4 or 5 filers is incorporated by
    reference to page 9 of the Corporation's definitive 2000 Notice and Proxy
    Statement filed on March 13, 2000 in connection with the solicitation of
    proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18,
    2000.

Item 11-Executive Compensation

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to page 8 and pages 14 through 23 of the Corporation's
    definitive 2000 Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the
    solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
    April 18, 2000.

Item 12-Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to pages 10 through 13 of the Corporation's definitive
    2000 Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the solicitation
    of proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18,
    2000.

Item 13-Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to pages 8 and 9 of the Corporation's definitive 2000
    Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of
    proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18,
    2000.

PART IV

Item 14-Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

Item 14(a)(1) and (2)-Northern Trust Corporation and
    Subsidiaries List of Financial Statements

and Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial information is set forth in
    Item 1 for informational purposes only:

Financial Information of The Northern Trust Company
    (Bank Only):

Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet—December 31,
    1999 and 1998.

Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Income—Years
    Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

The following consolidated financial statements of the
    Corporation and its subsidiaries are incorporated

by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders
    for the year ended

December 31, 1999:

Consolidated Financial Statements of Northern Trust
    Corporation and Subsidiaries:

Consolidated Balance Sheet—December 31, 1999 and
    1998.

Consolidated Statement of Income—Years Ended
    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
    —Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
    Equity—Years Ended December 31, 1999,

    and 1997.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows—Years Ended
    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

The following financial information is incorporated by
    reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders
    for the year ended December 31, 1999:

Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation
    (Corporation):

Condensed Balance Sheet—December 31, 1999 and
    1998.

Condensed Statement of Income—Years Ended
    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
    —Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
    Equity—Years Ended December 31, 1999,

1998 and 1997.

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows—Years Ended
    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of December
    31, 1999

, incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report
    to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999, pertain to the Bank
    only information, consolidated financial statements and Corporation only
    information listed above.

The Report of Independent Public Accountants incorporated by
    reference

into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1999 pertains to the consolidated financial statements
    and Corporation only information listed above.

Financial statement schedules have been omitted for the
    reason that they are not required or are not applicable.

Item 14(a)3-Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the

Exhibit Index beginning on page 32

of this Form 10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference
    to other filings.

Item 14(b)-Reports on Form 8-K

In a report on Form 8-K dated October 18,
    1999, Northern Trust incorporated by reference in Item 5 its October 18,
    1999 press release, reporting on its earnings for the third quarter and
    nine months of 1999. The press release, with summary financial information,
    was filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 7 of the Form 8-K. In a report on
    Form 8-K dated

November 16, 1999, Northern Trust Corporation incorporated by
    reference in Item 5 its November 16, 1999 press release, announcing that
    its Board of Directors had declared a 2-for-1 split of the common stock of
    the Corporation, to be effected by means of a 100% stock distribution. One
    share for each share held by stockholders of record on November 29, 1999,
    was distributed on December 9, 1999. The Corporation also announced the
    declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on shares of its common stock
    outstanding after the split in the amount of 13.5 cents per share, which
    was paid on January 3, 2000, to holders of record on December 10,
    1999.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly
    caused this Form 10-K Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the
    undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, this Form 10-K Annual Report has been signed below by the
    following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
    the date indicated.

EXHIBIT INDEX

The following Exhibits are filed herewith or are
    incorporated herein by reference.

*Prior Filings (File No. 0-5965,
    except as noted)

**

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan
    or arrangement

Upon written request to Rose A. Ellis, Secretary,
    Northern Trust Corporation, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois
    60675, copies of exhibits listed above are available to Northern Trust
    Corporation stockholders by specifically identifying each exhibit desired
    in the request.

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the
    Corporation hereby agrees to furnish the Commission, upon request, any
    instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
    Corporation not filed as an exhibit herein. No such instrument authorizes
    long-term debt securities in excess of 10% of the total assets of the
    Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.