ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS.



Set forth below are some risks and uncertainties that, if they
    were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our
    business or could cause our actual results to differ materially
    from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
    in this report and in the other public statements we make. These
    risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are
    subject to include, but are not limited to, the risks of our
    businesses described elsewhere in this report.



We
    Depend On Our Relationships with Our Vendors, and a Disruption
    of Our Vendor Relationships or a Disruption in Our Vendors’
    Operations Could Harm Our Business





Our
    Business Likely Will Continue To Be Impacted By Difficult
    Economic Conditions



Our business and results of operations may continue to be
    adversely impacted by difficult global, national and local
    economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer,
    commercial and industrial spending. These economic conditions
    began to significantly deteriorate in the fourth quarter of
    2008. Some of the factors that have contributed to reduced
    levels of spending include conditions in the residential real
    estate and mortgage markets, conditions in the automobile
    industry, variability in fuel and other energy costs, labor and
    healthcare costs, access to credit, high unemployment rates, low
    consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. These
    factors had a material adverse effect on demand for the
    Company’s products and services and on the Company’s
    financial condition and operating results in 2009. Continued
    recessionary conditions could result in additional job losses
    and business failures, which could result in a decrease in
    spendingand/orour
    loss of certain small business and retail customers. In
    addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business
    failures and other recessionary conditions could have a material
    adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to meet our
    inventory demands. All of these macroeconomic conditions could
    adversely affect our sales growth, margins and overhead, which
    could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.





The current difficult economic climate has shown signs of
    stabilizing in recent months but is not expected to improve
    significantly in the near term. The resulting low levels of
    consumer, commercial and industrial spending could continue to
    result in weakened demand for the products of all of our
    business groups for the foreseeable future.



Our
    Business Will Be Adversely Affected If Demand for Our Products
    Slows



Our business depends on customer demand for the products that we
    distribute. Demand for these products depends on many factors.



With respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are:



•the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher
    vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair;•the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle
    manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance
    offered on new vehicles;•the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old
    and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the
    original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more
    maintenance and repair than newer vehicles;•gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from
    using their vehicles;•changes in travel patterns which may cause consumers to rely
    more on other transportation;•restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair
    information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by
    governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all
    diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the
    vehicle manufacturers’ dealer networks; and•the economy generally, which in declining conditions may cause
    consumers to defer vehicle maintenance and repair and defer
    discretionary spending.



With respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors
    are:



•the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity
    utilization, as these indices impact the need for industrial
    replacement parts;•changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing
    economy; and•the economy in general.



With respect to our office products group, the primary factors
    are:



•the level of unemployment especially as it relates to white
    collar and service jobs, as this impacts the need for business
    products; and•the economy in general.



With respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the
    primary factors are:



•changes in the level of the Institute for Supply
    Management’s Purchasing Managers Index, as an index reading
    of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while
    a reading below 50 implies contracting manufacturing
    economy; and•the economy in general.



We
    Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business



The sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and
    electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by many
    factors including name recognition, product availability,
    customer service, anticipating changing





customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures.
    Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors
    reduce their prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices,
    which could result in a material decline in our revenues and
    earnings. Increased competition among distributors of automotive
    and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials,
    including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company
    anticipates no decline in competition in any of its four
    business segments in the foreseeable future.



In particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is
    highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of
    competitors. We compete primarily with national and regional
    auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local
    automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that
    supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass
    merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products
    and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. If
    we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive
    strategies, including internet related initiatives, or if our
    competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose
    customers and our sales and profits may decline.



The
    Impairment of Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect
    Us



The capital and credit markets have experienced varying levels
    of volatility and disruption for more than two years. In late
    2008 and early 2009, volatility and disruptions reached
    unprecedented levels. We have exposure to counterparties with
    which we routinely execute transactions. Such counterparties
    include commercial banks, insurance companies, investment funds
    and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed
    to bankruptcy or liquidity risks. While we have not realized any
    significant losses to date, a bankruptcy or illiquidity event by
    one of our significant counterparties could materially and
    adversely affect our access to capital, future business and
    results of operations.



