Item 1A, Risk Factors

, of this Form 10-K.



Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period.



Brand Building

Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Intermix, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Intermix, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our business and enhance the customer experience through significant investments in our supply chain and digital capabilities, investments in marketing, enhancement of our omni-channel shopping experience, remodeling of existing stores, and international expansion.



Trademarks and Service Marks

Old Navy, Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, GapFit, Banana Republic, Athleta, Intermix, Janie and Jack, and Hill City trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks and service marks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.










Franchising

We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, and Banana Republic stores in a number of countries throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands” inItem 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.



Inventory

The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed,” "Risk Factors—If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected," and "Risk Factors—Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events" inItem 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.



Competitors

The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” inItem 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.



Employees

As ofFebruary 1, 2020, we had a workforce of approximately 129,000 employees, which includes a combination of part-time and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak holiday selling season.

To remain competitive in the retail apparel industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, supply chain, marketing, information technology, and other functions, as well as in our stores and distribution centers. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our failure to manage key executive succession and retention and to continue to attract qualified personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations” inItem 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.



Available Information

We make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under “Investors,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.

Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Sustainability Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” Our Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct Overview.” Any amendments and waivers to the Code will also be available on the website.

Information about our sustainability efforts is available online at www.gapincsustainability.com, which provides information on our policies, social impact and environmental programs, as well as our sustainability strategy and data. Also available at www.gapincsustainability.com is a Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) table, which provides comparable data for our industry.










Information about our Executive Officers

The following are our executive officers:

Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:

Mark Breitbard, 52, President and Chief Executive Officer, Specialty Brands effective March 23, 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic from May 2017 to March 23, 2020; Chief Executive Officer, The Gymboree Corporation from January 2013 to April 2017; President, Gap North America from 2012 to January 2013; Executive Vice President, Gap North America Merchandising from 2011 to 2012; and Executive Vice President, GapKids and babyGap from 2010 to 2011.

Shawn Curran, 56, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations from October 2017 to March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain - Logistics and Product Operations from April 2016 to October 2017; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from August 2015 to April 2016; and Senior Vice President, Logistics from 2012 to August 2015.

Robert Fisher, 65, Interim President and Chief Executive Officer from November 2019 to March 23, 2020; Non-executive Chairman from February 2015 to March 23, 2020; Interim President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2007 to August 2007; Non-executive Chairman from 2004 to August 2007; Executive Vice President and President of Gap North America from 1997 to 1999; and Chief Operating Officer from 1995 to 1997.

Julie Gruber, 54, Executive Vice President, Global General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since February 2016; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from March 2015 to February 2016; Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from 2007 to March 2015; and Associate General Counsel from 2003 to 2007.

Teri List-Stoll, 57, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2017 to March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc. from August 2015 to September 2016; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kraft Foods Group, Inc. from September 2013 to May 2015; and Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Procter & Gamble Co. from 2008 to August 2013.

Michele Nyrop, 51, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer since September 2019; Senior Vice President, Human Resources from January 2017 to September 2019; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Banana Republic from January 2017 to February 2019; and Vice President, Human Resources, Gap from February 2015 to January 2017.

Katrina O'Connell, 50, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective March 23, 2020; Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Strategy & Innovation, Old Navy from January 2017 to March 23, 2020; and Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Strategy, Banana Republic from March 2015 to January 2017. Ms. O'Connell has previously held various roles at the Company focused on both financial budgeting and forecasting for the Company's portfolio of brands, as well as roles in supply chain, IT, treasury and investor relations.

Sonia Syngal, 50, President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 23, 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Navy from April 2016 to March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations from February 2015 to April 2016; and Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from November 2013 to January 2015. Since joining the Company in 2004, Ms. Syngal has served in key leadership and general management roles including Managing Director for the Company's Europe business, Senior Vice President for the Company's International division and Senior Vice President for the Company's International Outlet division. Prior to joining the Company, Sonia had a long career in Fortune 500 product companies, including Sun Microsystems where she led manufacturing operations, logistics and supply chain management, and at Ford Motor Co. where she held roles in product design, quality and manufacturing engineering.












Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. In addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.



We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed.

Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. However, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. The global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, or fail to execute trends and deliver products to the market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results.



Our business is highly competitive.

The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We face a variety of competitive challenges in an increasingly complex and fast-paced environment, including:

•anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands;

•attracting customer traffic both in stores and online;

•competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value;

•maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations;

•anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping;

•developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes;

•purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand;

•sourcing and allocating merchandise efficiently; and

•improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes in order to deliver cost savings to fund growth.

If we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the United States or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected.



Global economic conditions and any related impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations.

Our performance is subject to global economic conditions, as well as their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. Some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, pandemics (such as the impact of the current coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, including reduced store traffic and widespread temporary store closures), higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty.








Adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.



We may engage in or seek to engage in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and dispositions, that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could disrupt or adversely affect our businesses.

We may engage in or seek to engage in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions or dispositions, which we may not be able to complete on anticipated terms or time frames, or at all, or which may not generate some or all of the strategic, financial, operational or other benefits we expect to realize from such transactions on such anticipated time frames or at all.  In addition, these transactions may be complex in nature, and unanticipated developments or changes, including changes in law, the macroeconomic environment, market conditions, the retail industry or political conditions may affect our ability to complete such transactions.  In addition, the process of completing these transactions may be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we anticipate and may not yield a benefit if the transactions are not completed successfully, and executing these transactions may require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could disrupt our ongoing business and adversely affect the financial results and results of operations.  We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees and/or attracting and retaining customers during the pendency or following the completion of any of these transactions, which could harm our businesses.

In particular, on January 16, 2020, we announced that we would no longer pursue our previously announced plan to separate into two independent publicly traded companies.  We incurred significant costs and expenses in connection with our planned separation, which required significant attention from our senior management and employees, and we expect that the process of unwinding the separation-related work will be time-consuming, will involve additional costs and expenses, and may result in difficulties attracting, retaining and motivating employees, which could harm our business and adversely affect the financial results and results of operations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock.



We must maintain our reputation and brand image.

Our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers’ connection to our brands. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. Even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers’ perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. In addition, customer sentiment could be shaped by our sustainability policies and related design, sourcing and operations decisions. Failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Our failure to manage key executive succession and retention and to continue to attract qualified personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, sourcing, marketing, and other functions. In addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives, require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. We must also attract, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified field and distribution center personnel. Competition for talent is intenseand the turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and overtime regulations. If we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or








retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since the beginning of fiscal 2019, there have been significant changes to our executive leadership team, including the departures of our Chief Executive Officer and our President and Chief Executive Officer of Gap brand and the upcoming departure of our Chief Financial Officer, and the appointment of a new Chief People Officer. In March 2020, we promoted Sonia Syngal to Chief Executive Officer and Katrina O'Connell to Chief Financial Officer. The effectiveness of our leaders, including our new Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and any further transition, could have a significant impact on our results of operations.



Our investments in customer, digital, and omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate.

One of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. Our omni-channel initiatives include cross-channel logistics optimization and exploring additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. These initiatives involve significant investments in IT systems and significant operational changes. In addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. If the implementation of our customer, digital, and omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected.



If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected.

Fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. The nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels.Merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. In the past, we have not always predicted our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. If sales do not meet expectations (for example, because of unexpected effects on inventory supply and consumer demand caused by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic), too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower-than-planned margins.

We have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. We are also developing additional capabilities to analyze customer behavior and demand, which we believe will allow us to better localize assortment and improve store-level allocations, such as size allocation, to further tailor our assortments to customer needs and increase sell-through. Further, we intend to leverage technology and data science to digitize product creation, integrate with our consolidated vendor base, and further optimize our product-to-market processes and supply chain to enhance our in-season responsiveness and reduce our exposure to fashion volatility. These initiatives and additional capabilities involve significant changesto our inventory management systems and processes. If we are unable to implement these initiatives and integrate these additional capabilities successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected.



Our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing.

Independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. As a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products.

If we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health,








and safety standards. Moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. Any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. In addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. For example, in fiscal 2019, approximately 32 percent and 16 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in Vietnam and China, respectively. Accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in Vietnam or China could have a more significant impact on our results of operations.

Because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, public health emergencies, social unrest, changes in local economic conditions, political upheavals, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. Operating or manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins.

If our vendors, or any raw material vendors on which our vendors rely, suffer prolonged manufacturing or transportation disruptions due to public health conditions, such as the recent coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, or other unforeseen events, our ability to source product could be adversely impacted which would adversely affect our results of operations.



We are subject to data and security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures.










Failures of, or updates or changes to, our IT systems may disrupt operations.

We maintain a complex technology platform consisting of both legacy and modern systems. These systems require continual maintenance, upgrades and changes, some of which are significant. Upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with maintaining and replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and addressing system disruptions and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our IT initiatives. However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully maintain or launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. IT system disruptions or failures, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful.

Our current strategies include pursuing selective international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. This includes our franchisees opening additional stores internationally. We have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. In many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. In addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. Consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected.



The market for real estate is competitive.

Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. We also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. In addition, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. For example, on February 28, 2019, we announced plans to restructure our fleet of specialty stores and revitalize the Gap brand, including closing about 230 specialty stores during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020. Failure to secure adequate new locations,successfully modify or exit existing locations, or effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the United States and internationally. This could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, or cause impairments of our lease right of use assets as market values decline, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business.

We purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries, and we require those vendors to adhere to a Code of Vendor Conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. From time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards








and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.



Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands.



Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain.



Our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks.

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred in foreign currencies as well as inventory purchases in U.S. dollars for our foreign subsidiaries. Although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results.



We experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins.

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow sales and improve margins, in particular at our largest brands. A variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including but not limited to apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, industry traffic trends, and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable sales results and margins to differ materially from








prior periods and from expectations. Our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis. Over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of negative 1 percent in the fourth quarter offiscal 2019to a low of negative 4 percent in the first, second and third quarters offiscal 2019. Over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 38.3 percent in fiscal 2017 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015. In addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 9.6 percent in fiscal 2015 to a low of 3.5 percent in fiscal 2019.

Our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. Failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our credit ratings to decline, and impact liquidity.



Changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial position or our business initiatives.

In April 2011, we issued $1.25 billionaggregate principal amount of5.95percent notes dueApril 2021. As a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semi-annually on the notes.

Our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. In this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and endedfiscal 2019with$1.4 billionof cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. We are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $500 millionrevolving credit facility. We continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. However, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, including any such decline related to reduced store traffic and widespread temporary store closures as a result of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. In addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, and higher interest costs and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. Reduction in our credit ratings could also negatively impact our ability to extinguish our Notes and enter into a new long-term debt arrangement.

In November 2019, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Service downgraded their credit rating of us from BB+ stable outlook to BB negative outlook. This downgrade, and any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings, could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, more restrictive covenants in future financial documents and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs.

For further information on our debt and credit facilities, see Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 5andNote 6of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.



Changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape.

Any changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws or regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, cybersecurity, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.










Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events.

’

manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers

’

perception of our brands. To the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.



Reductions in income and cash flow from our credit card arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.

A third-party, Synchrony Financial ("Synchrony"), owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded programs for our Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic and Athleta brands. Our agreement with Synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by Synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. The income and cash flow that we receive from Synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, Synchrony’s ability to extend credit to our customers,as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. All of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking, and commercial protection laws. The factors affecting the income and cash flow that we receive from Synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. If the income and cash flow that we receive from the consumer credit card program agreement with Synchrony decreases significantly, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.



We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

As a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims (“Actions”) arising in the ordinary course of our business. Many of these Actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. The plaintiffs in some Actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. Actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. We cannot predict with assurance the outcome of Actions brought against us. Accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



