ITEM 1. Business

The Company

We are the global leader in industrial real estate,
focused on markets across the Americas, Europe and Asia. At December 31, 2014, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly-owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately
590 million square feet (55 million square meters) in 21 countries. We lease modern distribution facilities to more than 4,700 customers, including third-party logistics providers, transportation companies, retailers and manufacturers.





Details of the 590 million square feet, which represents an expected investment on an owned and managed basis of
$45.6 billion, were as follows:



•537 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $40.6 billion and 96.1% occupancy;



•40 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $3.2 billion that were 40.9% leased;



•$1.8 billion of land was available for future development;



•13 million square feet consisted of valued added properties, properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and other
non-industrial properties we own; and



•2.1% and 18.6% of the annualized net effective rent were attributable to our largest customer and 25 largest customers, respectively.

Prologis, Inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”). We believe the current organization and method of operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. The Operating Partnership also was formed in
1997.







Our global corporate headquarters are at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111, and our global
operational headquarters are at 4545 Airport Way, Denver, Colorado 80239. Other principal offices are in Amsterdam, Luxembourg, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.

Our Internet address iswww.prologis.com.All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available or can be accessed free of charge through the
Investor Relations section of our website after we electronically submit material to the SEC. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the
Standard & Poors (“S&P”) 500.

Investment Strategy

Both macroeconomics and demographics are important drivers of our business, including population growth, consumption and rising affluence. In developed
markets, including in the U.S., Europe and Japan, the reconfiguration of supply chains, and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities, are an important driver. In emerging markets, such as Mexico, Brazil
and China, increases in affluence and the rise of consumer classes create demand as new supply chains are constructed. Taken together, logistics real estate markets benefit from economic growth, but depend to a greater degree upon the modernization
of supply chains around the world and demographic growth.

We have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. We co-invest with
partners and investors in entities that own multiple properties and provide asset and property management services to these entities. We refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. These entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated,
depending on the structure, our partners’ participating and other rights and our level of control. The co-investment ventures may have one or more investors.

Business Strategy and Operating Segments

Our business comprises two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital.

Real Estate Operations

Rental Operations.Rental operations represent the main source of our revenues, earnings and funds from operations (“FFO”). See definition and a complete reconciliation of net earnings to
FFO in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our operating costs. We expect
to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining high occupancy rates, controlling expenses and through rent increases. Our rental income is diversified due to our global presence and broad customer base. We believe our property
management, leasing and maintenance teams, together with our capital expenditure, energy management and risk management programs, create cost efficiencies that allow us to capitalize on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and
growing a global portfolio.

Capital Deployment.Capital deployment includes the development, re-development and
acquisition of industrial properties that lead to rental operations and is therefore included with rental operations for segment reporting. We deploy capital primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers’ needs. We capitalize
on the following: (i) our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high-quality distribution facilities. We aim to increase our rental income
and the Company’s net asset value by leasing newly developed space and acquiring operating properties. We develop properties for long-term hold, for contribution to our co-investment ventures and, occasionally, for sale to third parties.

Strategic Capital

We invest with partners and investors through private and public ventures which may be consolidated or unconsolidated. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors’ specific needs, with a focus on
long-term ventures and open-ended funds. We also access alternative sources of equity through publicly traded vehicles such as Nippon Prologis REIT, Inc. (“NPR”) and FIBRA Prologis. These private and public vehicles provide
capital for distinct geographies across our global platform. We hold a significant ownership interest in these ventures, aligning our interests with those of our partners. We generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated ventures
through asset







management and property management services and we earn additional revenues from leasing, acquisition, construction, development and disposition services provided. Depending on the structure of
the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn revenues through incentive fees during the life of a venture or upon liquidation (we refer to these incentive fees as promotes). We believe our co-investment ventures will continue
to serve as a source of capital for investments, provide incremental revenues and mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We plan to grow this business generally through existing ventures.

Competition

Competitively priced
distribution space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect both of our operating segments. To the extent we wish to acquire land for development or dispose of land, we
may compete with local, regional and national operators and/or developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business.

We believe we have competitive advantages due to our:



•ability to respond quickly to customers’ needs for high-quality distribution space in key global and regional markets;



•established relationships with key customers served by our local teams;



•ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for global customers through the Prologis global
customer solutions team;



•property management and leasing expertise;



•relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business;



•global experience developing and managing industrial properties;



•well-positioned land bank; and



•team members with experience in the land entitlement process.

Customers

Our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national,
regional and local distribution users. At December 31, 2014, in Real Estate Operations, we had more than 3,900 customers occupying 271.6 million square feet of distribution space. On an owned and managed basis, we had more than 4,700
customers occupying 519.1 million square feet of distribution space. Our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.9% and 19.5%, respectively, of our net effective rent at December 31, 2014, for Real Estate Operations and
2.1% and 18.6%, respectively, for our owned and managed portfolio.

In Strategic Capital, we view our partners and investors as our customers.
At December 31, 2014, in our private ventures, we partnered with more than 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures.

Employees

We employ 1,505 people across
the globe. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (900 people), 14 countries in Europe (360 people) and three countries in Asia (245 people). Of the total, we have assigned 955 employees to Real Estate Operations and 90 employees to
Strategic Capital. Further, we have 460 individuals who work in corporate and support positions that support both segments. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining
agreements, although some employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and as such they benefit from applicable labor agreements.

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

We maintain a Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct applicable to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons
performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website,www.prologis.com.In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be
obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the
principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website.

Environmental Matters

We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we have subjected a majority
of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an







environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Insurance Coverage

We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the
risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and
terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. The costs to insure our
properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we
believe our properties are adequately insured. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

