ITEM 1. Business

The Company

We are the leading global owner, operator and
developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2013, on an owned and managed basis, we had properties and development projects totaling 569 million
square feet (52.9 million square meters) in 21 countries. These properties are leased to more than 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, transportation companies, retailers, manufacturers, and other enterprises.

Of the 569 million square feet (representing an investment of $45.5 billion) in our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31,
2013:



•529 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $41.5 billion that were 95.1 % occupied;



•30 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $2.4 billion that were 45.3% leased;



•land available for future development was $1.6 billion;



•10 million square feet consisted of properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage, including other non-industrial properties
we own; and



•the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.8% and 17.2 %, respectively, of our annualized base rent.

Prologis, Inc. commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a REIT under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. The Operating Partnership was also formed
in 1997.

We have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. We co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with partners
and investors and provide asset and property management services to these entities. We refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. Our ownership interest in these entities generally ranges from 15-50%. These entities may be consolidated
or unconsolidated, depending on the structure, our partner’s participating and other rights and our level of control of the entity. The co-investment ventures may have one or more investors.

Our global headquarters are located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 Airport
Way, Denver, Colorado 80239. Our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.

Our Internet website address iswww.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) are available or may be accessed free of charge
through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the S&P 500.

On June 3, 2011, AMB Property Corporation
(“AMB”) completed a merger with ProLogis, a Maryland REIT (“ProLogis”) in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of AMB for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis (the
“Merger”). In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc.







Investment Strategy

We believe that growth in gross domestic product (“GDP”) and in global trade are important drivers of demand for our industrial real estate. Trade and GDP are correlated as higher levels of
investment, production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. As the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade will continue to increase at a rate
in excess of growth in global GDP. Significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers’ preference to lease, rather than own, industrial real estate also drive demand for high quality distribution space.

Business Strategy and Operating Segments

Our business strategy
includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Investment Management.

Real Estate Operations Segment

Rental Operations -This represents the primary source of our revenue, earnings and funds from operations (“FFO”). We
collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We expect to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties,
by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and through rent increases on renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global
portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We believe that our property management and leasing teams, regular maintenance and capital expenditure programs, energy management and
sustainability programs and risk management programs create cost efficiencies, allowing us to leverage our global platform and provide flexible solutions for our customers.

Capital Deployment -Capital deployment includes development, re-development and acquisition activities that support our rental operations and are therefore included with that line of business for
segment reporting. We acquire, develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers’ needs. Within this line of business, we capitalize on: (i) the land that we currently own in
global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high-quality distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental
income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop properties for long-term hold, for contribution into one
of our co-investment ventures, or occasionally for sale to third parties. During 2013, we recognized gains in continuing operations of $563 million from the disposition of properties – primarily properties we developed. We develop directly as
well as with our partners in certain co-investment ventures.

Investment Management Segment-

Competition

The existence of competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the
rents that we can charge, which impacts both of our operating segments. To the extent we wish to acquire land for future development







of properties in our Real Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for
institutional capital within our Investment Management segment.

We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to
respond quickly to customers’ needs for high-quality distribution space in key global and regional distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to
leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our global customer solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven
track record with current and prospective investors in our investment management business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to
develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process.

Customers

We have a broad customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and
local distribution space users. At December 31, 2013, in our Real Estate Operations segment, we had more than 3,500 customers occupying 253.5 million square feet of distribution space. On an owned and managed basis, we had more than 4,500
customers occupying 503.8 million square feet of distribution space. Our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.6% and 22.6%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2013, for our Real Estate Operations
segment and 1.8% and 17.2%, respectively, for our owned and managed portfolio (which includes our Real Estate Operations segment and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures).

We develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. Keeping in close contact with customers
and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets of our owned and managed portfolio is unique. Our
in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional
business from the same customer across multiple geographies. In our Real Estate Operations segment, over half our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and, in some cases, more than one country, which
is consistent with our owned and managed portfolio.

In our Investment Management segment, we also consider our partners and investors to be
our customers. As of December 31, 2013, we partnered with 104 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures.

Employees

We employ 1,468 persons across the globe. Our employees work in 4 countries in the Americas (873 persons), 15 countries in Europe (387
persons) and 3 countries in Asia (208 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 918 employees to our Real Estate Operations segment and 98 employees to our Investment Management segment. We have 452 employees who work in corporate and support
positions who are not assigned to a segment. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in Europe are represented by statutory
Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements.

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all of our officers and employees,
including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website,
www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any
amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any
matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website.

Environmental
Matters

We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and
financial condition. Either the previous owners or we have subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the
environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 20 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8.

Insurance Coverage

We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the
risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and
terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self







insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. The costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. We believe that our insurance
coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

