Item 1.Business

The
    Company



The company is an owner, operator and developer of global
    industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway
    distribution markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of
    December 31, 2010, the company owned, or had investments
    in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, properties and development projects expected to total
    approximately 159.6 million square feet (14.8 million
    square meters) in 49 markets within 15 countries.



Of the approximately 159.6 million square feet as of
    December 31, 2010:



•on an owned and managed basis, which includes investments held
    on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, the company owned or partially owned approximately
    141.9 million square feet (principally, warehouse
    distribution buildings) that were 93.7% leased; the company had
    investments in eight development projects, which are expected to
    total approximately 2.2 million square feet upon
    completion; the company owned 25 development projects, totaling
    approximately 6.8 million square feet, which are available
    for sale or contribution; and the company had three value-added
    acquisitions, totaling approximately 1.2 million square
    feet;•through non-managed unconsolidated joint ventures, the company
    had investments in 46 industrial operating buildings, totaling
    approximately 7.3 million square feet; and•152,000 square feet of office space subject to a ground
    lease, which is the location of its global headquarters.



The company’s business is operated primarily through the
    operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent
    company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest
    in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. As the
    sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent
    company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for
    and discretion in itsday-to-daymanagement and control.



The parent company is a self-administered and self-managed real
    estate investment trust and it expects that it has qualified,
    and will continue to qualify, as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1997. As a self-administered and self-managed
    real estate investment trust, the company’s own employees
    perform its corporate, administrative and management functions,
    rather than the company relying on an outside manager for these
    services.



The company believes that real estate is fundamentally a local
    business and is best operated by local teams in each of its
    markets. As a vertically integrated company, the company
    actively manages its portfolio of properties. In select markets,
    the company may, from time to time, establish relationships with
    third-party real estate management firms, brokers and developers
    that provide some property-level administrative and management
    services under the company’s direction.



The parent company was incorporated in the state of Maryland in
    1997, and the operating partnership was formed in the state of
    Delaware in 1997. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 17
    of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for
    segment information related to the company’s operations and
    information regarding geographic areas.



The company’s global headquarters are located at Pier 1,
    Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111; the company’s
    telephone number is(415) 394-9000.The company’s other principal office locations are in
    Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Shanghai,
    Singapore and Tokyo.

Investment
    Strategy



The company’s investment strategy focuses on providing
    distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses
    are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of
    goods through the global supply chain. The company’s
    properties are primarily located in the world’s busiest
    distribution markets featuring large, supply-constrained infill
    locations with dense populations and proximity to airports,
    seaports and ground transportation





systems. When measured by annualized base rent, on an owned and
    managed basis, a substantial majority of the company’s
    portfolio of industrial properties is located in its target
    markets and much of this is in infill submarkets. Infill
    locations are characterized by supply constraints on the
    availability of land for competing projects as well as physical,
    political or economic barriers to new development. The company
    believes that its facilities are essential to creating
    efficiencies in the supply chain, and that its business
    encompasses a blend of real estate, global logistics and
    infrastructure.



In its target markets, the company focuses on
    HTD®facilities, industrial properties designed to facilitate the
    rapid distribution of its customers’ products rather than
    the long-term storage of goods. The company’s investment
    focus on
    HTD®assets is based on what it believes to be a global trend toward
    lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
    HTD®facilities generally have a variety of physical and location
    characteristics that allow for the rapid transport of goods from
    point to point. These physical characteristics could include
    numerous dock doors, shallower building depths, fewer columns,
    large truck courts and more space for trailer parking. The
    company believes that these building characteristics help its
    customers reduce their costs and become more efficient in their
    logistics operations. The company’s customers include
    logistics, freight forwarding and air-express companies with
    time-sensitive needs that value facilities proximate to
    transportation infrastructure.



The company believes that changes in global trade have been a
    primary driver of demand for industrial real estate for decades.
    The company has observed that demand for industrial real estate
    is further influenced by the long-term relationship between
    trade and GDP. Trade and GDP are correlated as higher levels of
    investment, production and consumption within a globalized
    economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and
    exports. As the world produces and consumes more, the company
    believes that the volume of global trade will continue to
    increase at a rate in excess of growth in global GDP. In the
    second half of the year, improving consumer demand and
    double-digit gains in global production and trade led customers
    to begin rebuilding their inventory levels, which is a trend
    that management believes will strengthen in 2011. Management
    also believes that its key hub and gateway markets will continue
    to lead the recovery in operating fundamentals and that a
    stronger recovery of fundamentals is expected to take hold in
    2011, with further increases in positive net absorption and
    declining availabilities.

Primary
    Sources of Revenue and Earnings



The primary source of the company’s core earnings is
    revenue received from its real estate operations and private
    capital business. The principal contributor of its core earnings
    is rent received from customers under long-term (generally three
    to 10 years) operating leases at its properties, including
    reimbursements from customers for certain operating costs and
    asset management fees. The company also generates core earnings
    from its private capital business, including priority
    distributions, acquisition and development reimbursements,
    promote interests and incentive distributions from its
    co-investment ventures. The company may generate additional
    earnings from the disposition of assets in itsdevelopment-for-saleand value-added conversion programs, as well as from land sales.

Long-Term
    Growth Strategies



The company believes that its long-term growth will be driven by
    its ability to:



•maintain and increase occupancy ratesand/orincrease rental rates at its properties;•raise third-party equity and grow earnings generated from its
    private capital business by way of the acquisition and
    development of new properties or through the possible management
    of third party assets co-invested with the company;•acquire industrial real estate with total returns above the
    company’s cost of capital; and•develop properties profitably and then either hold or sell them
    to third-parties.







Growth
    Through Operations



The company seeks to generate long-term internal growth by
    maintaining a high occupancy rate at its properties, by
    controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on
    existing space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale
    inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global
    portfolio. The company actively manages its portfolio by
    establishing leasing strategies and negotiating lease terms,
    pricing, and level and timing of property improvements. With
    respect to its leasing strategies, the company takes a long-term
    view to ensure it maximizes the value of its real estate. As the
    company continues to work through a challenging operating
    environment and to provide flexibility to its customers, the
    company evaluates and adjusts its leasing strategies for market
    terms and leasing rates, which may include shorter leasing
    terms. The company believes that its long-standing focus on
    customer relationships and ability to provide global solutions
    for a well-diversified customer base in the logistics, shipping
    and air cargo industries will enable it to capitalize on
    opportunities as they arise.



The company believes the strategic infill locations within its
    portfolio, the experience of its cycle-tested operations team
    and its ability to respond quickly to the needs of its customers
    provides a competitive advantage in leasing. Management believes
    the company’s regular maintenance, capital expenditure,
    energy management and sustainability programs create cost
    efficiencies that benefit the company and its customers.



Growth
    Through Co-Investments



The company, through AMB Capital Partners, LLC, its private
    capital group, was one of the pioneers of the real estate
    investment trust (REIT) industry’s co-investment model and
    has more than 27 years of experience in asset management
    and fund formation. The company co-invests in properties with
    private capital investors through partnerships, limited
    liability companies or other joint ventures. The company has a
    direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number
    of institutional investors. As of December 31, 2010, more
    than 56% of the company’s owned and managed operating
    portfolio is held through its nine significant co-investment
    ventures and funds. The company tailors industrial portfolios to
    investors’ specific needs in separate or commingled
    accounts and deploys capital in both close-ended and open-ended
    structures, while providing complete portfolio management and
    financial reporting services. Generally, the company is the
    largest investor in its open-ended funds and owns a10-50%interest in its co-investment ventures. The company believes its
    significant ownership in each of its funds provides a strong
    alignment of interests with its co-investment partners’
    interests.



The company believes its co-investment program with private
    capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital
    for new investments and revenues for its stockholders. In
    anticipation of the formation of futureco-investmentventures, the company may also hold acquired and newly developed
    properties for contribution to future co-investment ventures.
    The company may make additional investments through its existing
    co-investment ventures or to new co-investment ventures in the
    future and currently plans to do so. The company is in various
    stages of discussions with prospective investors to attract new
    capital to take advantage of potential future opportunities and
    these capital-raising activities may include the formation of
    new joint ventures. Such transactions, if the company completes
    them, may be material individually or in aggregate.



Growth
    Through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment



The company believes its acquisition experience and its network
    of property management, leasing and acquisition resources will
    continue to provide opportunities for growth. In addition to its
    internal resources, the company has long-standing relationships
    with lenders, leasing and investment sales brokers, as well as
    third-party local property management firms, which may give it
    access to additional acquisition opportunities. The company is
    actively monitoring opportunities in its target markets and
    intends to acquire high-quality, well-located industrial real
    estate.



Additionally, the company seeks to acquire industrial properties
    that are wholly or partially vacant as a part of
    management’s belief that the discount in pricing attributed
    to the operating challenges of such a property could provide
    greater returns once it is stabilized. Value-added acquisitions
    represent unstabilized properties acquired by the company, which
    generally have one or more of the following characteristics:
    (i) existing vacancy, typically in excess of 20%,
    (ii) short-term lease rollover, typically during the first
    two years of ownership, or (iii) significant capital
    improvement requirements, typically in excess of 20% of the
    purchase price. The company excludes value-





added acquisitions from its owned and managed and consolidated
    operating statistics prior to stabilization (generally 90%
    leased) in order to provide investors with data which it feels
    better reflect the performance of its core portfolio. The
    company strives to enhance the quality of its portfolio through
    acquisitions that are accretive to the company’s earnings
    and its net asset value. The company also seeks to redeploy
    capital from the sale of non-strategic assets into properties
    that better fit its current investment focus.



The company is generally engaged in various stages of
    negotiations for a number of acquisitions and other
    transactions, some of which may be significant, that may
    include, but are not limited to, individual properties, large
    multi-property portfolios and platforms and property-owning or
    real-estate-related entities.



Growth
    Through Development



The company’s development business consists of conventional
    development,build-to-suitdevelopment, redevelopment, value-added conversions and land
    sales. The company believes, over the long term, customer demand
    for new industrial space in strategic markets tied to global
    trade will continue to outpace supply, most notably in major
    gateway markets in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The company
    believes that developing, redevelopingand/orexpanding of well-located, high-quality industrial properties
    provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from
    purchasing existing properties. However, new developments,
    redevelopments and value-added conversions may require
    significant management attention and capital investment to
    maximize returns. The company pursues development projects
    directly and in co-investment ventures and development joint
    ventures, providing it with the flexibility to pursue
    development projects independently or in partnerships, depending
    on market conditions, submarkets or building sites and
    availability of capital. Completed development and redevelopment
    properties are held in its owned and managed portfolio or sold
    to third parties.



Management believes its long-standing focus on infill locations
    can at times lead to opportunities to enhance value through the
    conversion of some of the company’s industrial properties
    to higher and better uses. Value-added conversion projects
    generally involve a significant enhancement or a change in use
    of the property from an industrial facility to a higher and
    better use, including use as research & development,
    manufacturing, office, residential, or retail properties.
    Activities required to prepare the property for conversion to a
    higher and better use may include rezoning, redesigning,
    reconstructing and re-tenanting. The sales price of a
    value-added conversion project is generally based on the
    underlying land value, reflecting its ultimate conversion to a
    higher and better use and, as such, little to no residual value
    is ascribed to the industrial building. Generally, the company
    expects to sell to third parties these value-added conversion
    projects at some point in the re-entitlement and conversion
    process, thus recognizing the enhanced value of the underlying
    land that supports the property’s repurposed use.



Members of the company’s development team have broad
    experience in real estate development and possess
    multidisciplinary backgrounds that allow for the completion of
    the build-out andlease-upof
    the company’s development portfolio. Management believes
    that there are currently opportunities for land entitlement as
    municipalities are beginning to seek revenue generating
    activities.



Proposed
    Merger with ProLogis



On January 30, 2011, the parent company and the operating
    partnership entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the
    “merger agreement”) with ProLogis, a Maryland real
    estate investment trust, New Pumpkin Inc., a Maryland
    corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of ProLogis, Upper
    Pumpkin LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly
    owned subsidiary of New Pumpkin, and Pumpkin LLC, a Delaware
    limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Upper
    Pumpkin. The merger agreement provides for a merger of equals,
    in which through a series of transactions, ProLogis and its
    newly formed subsidiaries will be merged with and into the
    parent company (the “merger”), with the parent company
    continuing as the surviving corporation with its corporate name
    changed to “ProLogis Inc.” As a result of the mergers,
    each outstanding common share of beneficial interest of ProLogis
    will be converted into the right to receive 0.4464 of a newly
    issued share of common stock of





the parent company. The merger is subject to customary closing
    conditions, including receipt of approval of parent company
    stockholders and ProLogis shareholders.



The merger transactions entail the following steps:
    (1) Pumpkin LLC will be merged with and into ProLogis, with
    ProLogis continuing as the surviving entity and as a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Upper Pumpkin; (2) then, New Pumpkin
    will be merged with and into the parent company with the parent
    company continuing as the surviving corporation and its
    corporate name changed, and (3) then, the surviving
    corporation will contribute all of the outstanding equity
    interests of Upper Pumpkin to the operating partnership in
    exchange for the issuance by the operating partnership of
    partnership interests to the surviving corporation. As a result
    of these merger transactions, the combined company will be
    structured as an UPREIT.



The merger agreement provides that, upon the consummation of the
    merger, the board of directors of the surviving corporation will
    consist of 11 members, as follows: (i) Mr. Hamid R.
    Moghadam, the current chief executive officer of the parent
    company, (ii) Mr. Walter C. Rakowich, the current
    chief executive officer of ProLogis, (iii) four individuals
    to be selected by the current members of the board of directors
    of the parent company, and (iv) five individuals to be
    selected by the current members of the board of trustees of
    ProLogis. In addition, upon the consummation of the merger,
    (a) Mr. Moghadam and Mr. Rakowich will become
    co-chief executive officers of the surviving corporation,
    (b) Mr. William E. Sullivan, the current chief
    financial officer of ProLogis, will become the chief financial
    officer of the surviving corporation, (c) Mr. Irving
    F. Lyons, III, a current member of the board of trustees of
    ProLogis, will become the lead independent director of the
    surviving corporation, (d) Mr. Moghadam will become
    the chairman of the board of directors of the surviving
    corporation and (e) Mr. Rakowich will become the
    chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors of
    the surviving corporation.



The merger agreement also provides that, on December 31,
    2012, (i) unless earlier terminated in accordance with the
    bylaws of the surviving corporation, the employment of
    Mr. Rakowich as co-chief executive officer will terminate
    and Mr. Rakowich will thereupon retire as co-chief
    executive officer and as a director of the surviving
    corporation, and Mr. Moghadam will become the sole chief
    executive officer (and will remain the chairman of the board of
    directors) of the surviving corporation, and (ii) unless
    earlier terminated, the employment of Mr. Sullivan as the
    chief financial officer of the surviving corporation will
    terminate and Mr. Thomas S. Olinger, the current chief
    financial officer of the parent company, will become the chief
    financial officer of the surviving corporation.



James Kinsey, et al. v. ProLogis,
    et al.,

Vernon C. Burrows, et al. v. ProLogis, et
    al.,



Additional Information About the Proposed Transaction and
    Where to Find it:



In connection with the proposed transaction, the company expects
    to file with the SEC a registration statement onForm S-4that will include a joint proxy statement of ProLogis and the
    company that also constitutes a prospectus of the company.
    ProLogis and the company also plan to file other relevant
    documents with the SEC regarding the proposed transaction.
    INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS
    AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IF AND WHEN THEY
    BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT
    INFORMATION. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy
    statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and
    other relevant documents filed by ProLogis





and the company with the SEC at the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed by ProLogis
    with the SEC will be available free of charge on ProLogis’
    website at www.prologis.com or by contacting ProLogis Investor
    Relations at +1-303-567-5690. Copies of the documents filed by
    the company with the SEC will be available free of charge on the
    company’s website atwww.amb.comor by contacting
    AMB Investor Relationsat +1-415-394-9000.



The company and ProLogis and their respective directors and
    executive officers and other members of management and employees
    may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies
    in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information
    about the company’s executive officers and directors in the
    company’s definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on
    March 23, 2010. You can find information about
    ProLogis’ executive officers and directors in
    ProLogis’ definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on
    March 30, 2010. Additional information regarding the
    interests of such potential participants will be included in the
    joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents
    filed with the SEC if and when they become available. You may
    obtain free copies of these documents from the company or
    ProLogis using the sources indicated above.



This document shall not constitute an offer to sell or the
    solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there
    be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such
    offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to
    registration or qualification under the securities laws of any
    such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made
    except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of
    Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended.





