ITEM 1. Business

The Company

We are the leading global owner, operator and
developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2012, on an owned and managed basis, we had properties and development projects totaling 554 million
square feet (51.5 million square meters) in 21 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies, and other enterprises.

Of the 554 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2012:



•522 million square feet were in our operating portfolio with a gross book value of $40.1 billion that were 94.0% occupied;

•22 million square feet were in our development portfolio with a total expected investment of $2.1 billion that were 50.8% leased;

•10 million square feet consisted of properties in which we have an ownership interest but do not manage and other properties we own, including
assets held for sale; and

•the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.0% and 18.7%, respectively, of the annualized base rent.

Prologis, Inc. commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. The Operating Partnership was also formed in 1997.

We have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. We co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with private capital investors and
provide asset and property management services to these entities. We refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. Our ownership interest in these entities generally ranges from 15-50%. These entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated,
depending on the structure, our partner’s participating and other rights and our level of control of the entity. The co-investment ventures may have one or more investors. We also have investments in joint ventures, generally with one partner
and that we do not manage. We refer to our investments in the entities accounted for on the equity method, both unconsolidated co-investment ventures and joint ventures, as unconsolidated entities.

Our global headquarters are located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 Airport
Way, Denver, Colorado 80239. Our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.

Our Internet website address is www.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) are available or may be accessed free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the S&P 500.

Merger of AMB and ProLogis and Acquisition of
PEPR

On June 3, 2011, AMB Property Corporation (“AMB”) completed a merger with ProLogis, a Maryland REIT
(“ProLogis”) in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of AMB for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in ProLogis (the “Merger”). In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and
ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Following the Merger, AMB changed its







name to Prologis, Inc. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began consolidating ProLogis European Properties (“PEPR”) (the “PEPR Acquisition”). Our
results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not be meaningful. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more
information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition.

Investment Strategy

We believe that gross domestic product (“GDP”) growth and growth in global trade are important drivers of demand for our product. Trade and GDP
are correlated as higher levels of investment, production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. As the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade
will continue to increase at a rate in excess of growth in global GDP. Significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers’ preference to lease, rather than own, facilities also drive demand for quality distribution space.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Private Capital. We generate revenue, earnings, net operating income (calculated as rental income less rental expenses),
funds from operations (or FFO as defined in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) and cash flows through our segments primarily through three lines of business, as
follows:

Real Estate Operations Segment

Rental Operations- This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and FFO. We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast
majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long-term internal growth in rental income by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on
rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to generate
long-term internal growth in rents by increasing our occupancy rate and through rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollovers. We believe that our property management and leasing teams, regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure
programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficiencies, allowing us to leverage our global platform and provide flexible solutions for our customers as well as for us.

Capital Deployment Activities -Our development and re-development activities support our rental operations and are therefore
included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers’ needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional value creation
by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality distribution
facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors, we may develop
properties directly or in co-investment ventures for long-term hold, for contribution into one of our co-investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition of gains or
losses. Generally, in the United States, Europe and Japan we are developing directly while in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co-investment ventures.

Private Capital Segment-We co-invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co-investment ventures. We have a
direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors’ specific needs and deploy capital in both close-ended and open-ended venture structures and other joint
ventures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 15-50% in these ventures. We believe our co-investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co-investment
partners’ interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures by providing asset management and property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing,
acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our
co-investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for







our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures, such as the two ventures discussed
below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and by raising additional third-party capital in our existing ventures.

Our Operating Segments

As discussed above, our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations, which includes our Capital Deployment activities, and Private Capital. Please see
“Item 1A Risk Factors”, our property information and market presence as presented in “Item 2. Properties”, a discussion of our segment results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and our segment footnote – Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments.

Competition

The existence of
competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge, which impacts both of our operating segments. To the extent we wish to acquire land for
future development of properties in our Real Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our Private
Capital segment.

We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers’ needs for
high-quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point
of contact for our global customers through our Global Customer Solutions team; (iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital
business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement
process.

Customers

We have
developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. At December 31, 2012, in our Real Estate Operations segment,
we had 3,832 customers occupying 296.5 million square feet of distribution space. In the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,703 customers occupying 195.9 million square feet of distribution space. In our Real Estate Operations
segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 1.6% and 18.7%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2012.

Within our Global Customer Solutions team, we develop long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global
basis. Keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is
unique. Our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners
additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. In our Real Estate Operations segment, approximately 50.0% of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one
country.

In our Private Capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. As of December 31, 2012, we
partnered with 107 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures.

Employees

We employ 1,445 persons in our entire organization. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (875 persons), in 15 countries in Europe (385
persons) and in three countries in Asia (185 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 885 employees to our Real Estate Operations segment and 100 employees to our Private Capital segment. We have 460 employees who work in corporate and support
positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in
Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements.

Management’s Overview

At the time of the Merger, we established our key strategic priorities to guide our path through the end of 2013. These priorities were:



•to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers;



•to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the REIT industry;



•to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth;



•to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and



•to build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in
real estate as a career.







Align our Portfolio with our Investment Strategy

As discussed above, we have categorized our portfolio into three main segments – global, regional and other markets. By segmenting our markets in
this manner, we were able to construct a plan that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit. We expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt that is secured by the
disposed assets, if any, repay other debt and to recycle capital into new development projects and/or strategic acquisitions.

Strengthen
our Financial Position

We intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and
building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry. We expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will increase our financial flexibility and provide for continued access
to capital markets. This financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle as they arise. We expect to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local
currency where appropriate, and utilizing derivative contracts to hedge our foreign denominated equity and swap U.S. dollar–denominated debt into obligations denominated in foreign currencies. We expect to also lower our foreign currency risk
by holding assets outside the United States primarily in co-investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital revenue. We will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our
existing and newly formed co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in Europe and Japan discussed below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. In addition, we
expect that new development projects, particularly in those emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico, will be done in conjunction with our private capital partners.

Streamline Private Capital Business

We are working with our private capital investors to
rationalize certain of our co-investment ventures. Some of our legacy co-investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. Therefore, we have terminated or restructured certain of these
co-investment ventures. In other cases, we may combine some co-investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. In every case, however, we have and will continue to work very closely with our partners and venture investors who have been and
will be active participants in these decisions. We expect to continue with these activities during 2013. We plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new
co-investment ventures, including the new ventures in Europe and Japan, and raising incremental capital for our existing co-investment ventures.

Improve the Utilization of Our Low Yielding Assets

We plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to 95% leased, completing the build-out and lease-up of our development projects as well as monetizing our
land through development or sale to third parties.

Build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and become the
employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career

We realized more than $115 million of cost synergies on
an annualized basis, compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre-Merger basis. These synergies included gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility fees and lower amortization of non real
estate assets. We will continue to look for and achieve additional savings opportunities. In addition, we implemented a new enterprise wide system that includes a property management/billing system (implemented in April 2012), a human resources
system (implemented in July 2012), a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse (implemented in January 2013). In connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most effective global business processes with the
enhanced system functionality, and have also implemented several analytical tools to further empower and assist our regional and local teams. In early 2012, we implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees’
compensation to our company performance. We believe these efforts and others will help us with the attainment of this objective.

See
“Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of our 2012 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above.

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal
financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website,
copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will
be disclosed on our website.

Environmental Matters

We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we subjected a majority of the
properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While







some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Insurance Coverage

We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties
and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverage includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake
and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. We believe that our
insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. However, an uninsured loss could result in loss of
capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. See further discussion in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

