ITEM 1. Business

The
Company

We are the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on markets tied to global trade across
the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated investees, properties and development projects totaling approximately 600 million square feet (55.7
million square meters) in 22 countries. These properties are leased to approximately 4,500 customers, including third-party logistics providers, manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies and other enterprises.

Of the approximately 600 million square feet of our owned and managed portfolio as of December 31, 2011:



•approximately 559 million square feet were operating industrial distribution buildings with a gross book value of $42.8 billion that were 92.2%
occupied;

•approximately 13 million square feet in our development portfolio with a total current investment of $1.0 billion and a total expected investment
of $1.4 billion that were 43.6% leased;

•approximately 25 million square feet consist of properties we manage on behalf of third parties, properties in which we have an ownership interest
but do not manage and non-industrial properties we own; and

•the largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted for 2.4% and 17.9%, respectively, of the annualized base rent of the combined portfolio.

Prologis, Inc. (the “REIT”) is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust. The REIT is the
sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. (the “Operating Partnership”). We operate the REIT and the Operating Partnership as one enterprise. The management of the REIT consists of the same members as the management of the Operating
Partnership. These members are officers of the REIT and employees of the Operating Partnership. As general partner with control of the Operating Partnership, the REIT consolidates the Operating Partnership for financial reporting purposes, and the
REIT does not have significant assets other than its investment in the Operating Partnership. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the REIT and the Operating Partnership are the same on their respective financial statements and we refer to the
REIT and the Operating Partnership collectively throughout this document as “the Company”, “Prologis”, “we”, “our” or “us”. The REIT commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in
1997, elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”), and believes the current organization and method of operation will enable the
REIT to maintain its status as a REIT. The Operating Partnership was also formed in 1997.

We have investments in entities through a variety of
ventures. We co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with private capital investors and provide asset and property management services to these entities. We refer to these entities as co-investment ventures. Our ownership interest in
these entities generally ranges from 10-50%. We also have investments in joint ventures, generally with one partner and that we do not manage. We refer to our investments in the entities accounted for on the equity method, both unconsolidated
co-investment ventures and joint ventures as unconsolidated investees.

Our global headquarters are located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco,
California 94111 and our global operational headquarters are located at 4545 Airport Way, Denver, Colorado 80239. Our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.







Our Internet website address is www.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) are available or may be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
to, the SEC. The REIT’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the S&P 500.

Merger of AMB and ProLogis and Acquisition of PEPR

On June 3, 2011, AMB Property
Corporation (“AMB”) completed the merger with ProLogis, a Maryland REIT (“ProLogis”) in which ProLogis shareholders received 0.4464 of a share of common stock of AMB for each outstanding common share of beneficial interest in
ProLogis (the “Merger). Following the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. In the Merger, AMB was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. In May 2011, we also acquired a controlling interest in and began
consolidating ProLogis European Properties (“PEPR”) (the “PEPR Acquisition”).

We have recorded the purchase price
allocations for both the Merger ($5.9 billion) and PEPR Acquisition ($1.6 billion) in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our results for 2011 reflect approximately seven months of the impact of the Merger and the PEPR
Acquisition. Therefore, period to period comparisons may not be meaningful. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information relating to both the Merger and PEPR Acquisition.

Investment Strategy

We believe that gross domestic product (“GDP”) growth and growth in global trade are important drivers of demand for our product. Trade and GDP are correlated as higher levels of investment,
production and consumption within a globalized economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and exports. As the world produces and consumes more, we believe that the volume of global trade will continue to increase at a rate in excess of
growth in global GDP. Significant supply chain reconfiguration, obsolescence and customers’ preference to lease, rather than own, facilities also drive demand for quality distribution space.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy focuses on three
principal lines of business within two business segments, as follows:

Real Estate Operations Segment

Rental Operations- This represents the primary source of our core revenue, earnings and funds from operations (or FFO as defined
in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition”). We collect rent from our customers under operating leases, including reimbursements for the vast majority of our operating costs. We seek to generate long-term
internal growth in rents by maintaining a high occupancy rate at our properties, by controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale inherent in
owning, operating and growing a large global portfolio. Our rental income is diversified due to both our global presence and our broad customer base. We expect to increase overall rental income primarily through the leasing of space currently
available in our properties. We believe that our regular maintenance programs, capital expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability programs create cost efficencies that provide a benefit to our customers as well as the Company.

Capital Deployment Activities -Our development and re-development activities support our rental operations and are
therefore included with that line of business for segment reporting. We develop and re-develop industrial properties primarily in global and regional markets to meet our customers’ needs. Within this line of business, we provide additional
value creation by utilizing: (i) the land that we currently own in global and regional markets; (ii) the development expertise of our local personnel; (iii) our global customer relationships; and (iv) the demand for high quality
distribution facilities in key markets. We seek to increase our rental income and the net asset value of the Company, through the leasing of newly developed space, as well as through the acquisition of new properties. Depending on several factors,
we may develop properties directly or in co-investment ventures for long-term hold, for contribution into one of our co-investment ventures, or for sale to third parties. Properties that we choose to contribute or sell may result in the recognition
of gains or losses. Generally, in the U.S., Europe and Japan we are developing directly while in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico we are developing with our private capital partners in a variety of co-investment ventures.

Private Capital Segment -We co-invest in properties with private capital investors through a variety of co-investment ventures.
We have a direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number of institutional investors. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors’ specific







needs and deploy capital in both close-ended and open-ended structures, while providing complete portfolio management and financial reporting services. We generally own 10-50% in the ventures. We
believe our co-investment in each of our ventures provides a strong alignment of interests with our co-investment partners’ interests. We generate revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures by providing asset management and
property management services. We may also earn revenues through additional services provided such as leasing, acquisition, construction, development, disposition, legal and tax services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns
provided to our partners, we may also earn revenues through incentive returns or promotes. We believe our co-investment program with private capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital for new investments and provide revenues for
our stockholders, as well as mitigate risk associated with our foreign currency exposure. We expect to grow this business with the formation of new ventures and by raising additional third-party capital in our existing ventures.

Our Operating Segments

As discussed above, our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations, which includes our Capital Deployment activities, and Private Capital. Our Real Estate Operations
segment represents the long-term ownership of industrial operating properties, including development activities. Our Private Capital segment represents the long-term management of co-investment ventures and the properties they own. Please see
“Item 1A Risk Factors”, our property information and market presence as presented in “Item 2. Properties”, a discussion of our segment results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and our segment footnote – Note22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more information with regard to the investments and results of operations of our segments.

Competition

The existence of
competitively priced distribution space available in any market could have a material impact on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can charge. To the extent we wish to acquire land for future development of properties in our Real
Estate Operations segment or dispose of land, we may compete with local, regional, and national developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital.

We believe we have competitive advantages due to (i) our ability to respond quickly to customers’ needs for high-quality distribution space in key global distribution markets; (ii) our
established relationships with key customers served by our local personnel; (iii) our ability to leverage our organizational structure to provide a single point of contact for our global customers through our Global Customer Solutions team;
(iv) our property management and leasing expertise; (v) our relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our private capital business; (vi) our global experience in the development and management of
industrial properties; (vii) the strategic locations of our land that we expect to develop; and (viii) our personnel who are experienced in the land entitlement process.

Customers

We have developed a customer base that is diverse in terms of industry
concentration and represents a broad spectrum of international, national, regional and local distribution space users. At December 31, 2011, in our Real Estate Operations segment, we had 3,163 customers occupying 266.0 million square feet
of distribution space. In the unconsolidated properties we manage, we had 2,476 customers occupying 249.3 million square feet of distribution space. In our Real Estate Operations segment, our largest customer and 25 largest customers accounted
for 0.6% and 7.2%, respectively, of our annualized base rent at December 31, 2011.

Within our Global Customer Solutions team, we develop
long-term relationships with our customers and understand their business and needs, serving as their strategic partner for real estate on a global basis. Keeping in close contact with customers and focusing on exceptional customer service sets us
apart from other real estate providers as much more than a landlord. We believe that what we offer in terms of scope, scale and quality of assets is unique. Our in-depth knowledge of our markets helps us stay ahead of trends and create
forward-thinking solutions for their distribution networks. This depth of customer knowledge results in greater retention and expanded service, which garners additional business from the same customer across multiple geographies. Approximately
50.0 % of our annual base rent is derived from customers who lease from us in more than one location and more than one country.

In our
Private Capital segment, we consider our private capital investors to be our customers. As of December 31, 2011, we partnered with 117 investors, several of which invest in multiple funds.

Employees

We employ 1,457 persons in our
entire organization. Our employees work in four countries in the Americas (925 persons), in 15 countries in Europe (345 persons) and in three countries in Asia (187 persons). Of the total, we have assigned 862 employees to our Real Estate Operations
segment and 67 employees to our Private Capital segment. We have 528 employees who work in corporate and support positions who are not assigned to a segment who may assist with segment activities. We believe our relationships with our employees are
good. Our employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some of our employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and benefit from applicable labor agreements.

Management’s Overview

At the time of the Merger, we established key strategic priorities to guide our path over the next two years. These priorities are:



•to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers;







•to strengthen our financial position and build one of the top balance sheets in the REIT industry;



•to streamline our private capital business and position it for substantial growth;



•to improve the utilization of our low yielding assets; and



•to build the most effective and efficient organization in the REIT industry and to become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in
real estate as a career.

Align our Portfolio with our Investment Strategy

Subsequent to the Merger, we performed a comprehensive review of our owned and managed portfolio, and categorized the portfolio into three main segments
– global, regional and other markets. Global markets represent approximately 83% of our overall owned and managed platform (based on our share of net operating income of the properties). Regional markets represent 12% of our total owned and
managed platform. We intend to hold only the highest quality class-A product in our regional markets. We also own a small number of assets in other markets, which account for 5% of our owned and managed platform and that we plan to exit from in an
orderly fashion in the next few years. By segmenting our markets in this manner, we were able to construct a strategy that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit for the company. We
expect to use the proceeds from dispositions to pay down debt and to recycle capital into new development projects or strategic acquisitions.

Strengthen our Financial Position

We
intend to further strengthen our financial position by lowering our financial risk and currency exposure and building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry. We expect to lower our financial risk by reducing leverage and
maintaining staggered debt maturities, which will provide us with more financial flexibility and allow continued access to debt capital markets. This financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire
business cycle as they become available. We expect to lower our currency exposure by owning assets outside the U.S. primarily in co-investment ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest and provide services generating private capital
revenue. We will accomplish this through contributions and sales to our existing and newly formed co-investment ventures. In addition, we expect that new development projects, particularly in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and Mexico, will
be done in conjunction with our private capital partners. We will also reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations by borrowing in local currencies when appropriate.

Streamline Private Capital Business

We are rationalizing our private capital business in
conjunction with our private capital investors. Some of our co-investment ventures have fee structures that do not adequately compensate us for the services we provide. Therefore, we may terminate or restructure certain of these co-investment
ventures. In other cases, we may combine some co-investment ventures to gain operational efficiencies. In every case, however, we will work very closely with our partners and venture investors who will be active participants in these decisions. We
plan to grow our private capital business with the deployment of the private capital commitments we have already raised, formation of new co-investment ventures and raising incremental capital for our existing co-investment ventures.

Improve the Utilization of Our Low Yielding Assets

We plan to increase the value of our low yielding assets by stabilizing our operating portfolio to its historical average of 95% leased, completing the build-out and lease-up of our development projects
as well as monetizing our land through development or sale to third parties.

Build the most effective and efficient organization in the
REIT industry and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career

We have identified more than
$115 million of Merger cost synergies on an annualized basis, as compared to the combined expenses of AMB and ProLogis on a pre-Merger basis. These synergies include gross general and administrative savings, reduced global line of credit facility
fees and lower amortization of non real estate assets. We believe we have realized approximately 90% of these synergies already and expect to realize the full amount by year - end 2012. In addition, we are in the process of implementing a new
enterprise wide system that will include a property management/billing system, a human resources system, a general ledger and accounting system and a data warehouse. In connection with this implementation, we are striving to utilize the most
effective global business processes with the enhanced system functionality. We have implemented two new compensation plans that we believe will better align employees’ compensation to our performance. We believe these efforts and others will
help us with the attainment of this objective.

See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” for a discussion of our 2011 results and progress attaining the objectives outlined above.

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our Board and all of our officers
and employees, including the principal co-executive officers, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our
website, www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California
94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal







executive officers, the principal financial officer, or the principal accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of
Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website.

Environmental Matters

We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the
previous owners or we subjected a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land, to environmental reviews. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has
revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and “Item 1A.
Risk Factors”.

Insurance Coverage

We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties
and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverages include property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, named windstorm, flood, earthquake
and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self insurance and through a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. We believe that our
insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. However, an uninsured loss could result in loss of
capital investment and anticipated revenues and earnings. See further discussion in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

