Item 1.Business

The
    Company



The company is a global owner, operator and developer of
    industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway
    distribution markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of
    December 31, 2009, the company owned, or had investments
    in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, properties and development projects expected to total
    approximately 155.1 million square feet (14.4 million
    square meters) in 47 markets within 14 countries. The company
    invests in properties located predominantly in the infill
    submarkets of its targeted markets. The company’s portfolio
    is comprised of High Throughput
    Distribution®facilities — industrial properties built for speed and
    located near airports, seaports and ground transportation
    systems.



The approximately 155.1 million square feet as of
    December 31, 2009 included:



•132.6 million square feet (principally, warehouse
    distribution buildings) on an owned and managed basis, which
    includes investments held on a consolidated basis or through
    unconsolidated joint ventures, that were 91.2% leased;•15.0 million square feet in its development portfolio,
    including approximately 9.7 million square feet in 33
    development projects that are complete and in the process of
    stabilization and approximately 5.3 million square feet in
    15 development projects under construction;•7.4 million square feet in 46 industrial operating
    buildings in unconsolidated joint ventures in which the company
    has investments but does not manage; and•152,000 square feet through a ground lease, which is the
    location of its global headquarters.



The company’s business is operated primarily through the
    operating partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the parent
    company owned an approximate 97.8% general partnership interest
    in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. As the
    sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent
    company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for
    and discretion in itsday-to-daymanagement and control.



The parent company is a self-administered and self-managed real
    estate investment trust and it expects that it has qualified,
    and will continue to qualify, as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1997. As a self-administered and self-managed
    real estate investment trust, the company’s own employees
    perform its corporate administrative and management functions,
    rather than the company relying on an outside manager for these
    services. The company believes that real estate is fundamentally
    a local business and is best operated by local teams in each of
    its markets. As a vertically integrated company, the company
    actively manages its portfolio of properties. In select markets,
    the company may, from time to time, establish relationships with
    third-party real estate management firms, brokers and developers
    that provide some property-level administrative and management
    services under the company’s direction.



The company’s global headquarters are located at Pier 1,
    Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111; the company’s
    telephone number is(415) 394-9000.The company’s other principal office locations are in
    Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Shanghai,
    Singapore and Tokyo. As of December 31, 2009, the company
    employed 521 individuals.

Investment
    Strategy



The company’s investment strategy focuses on providing
    distribution space to customers whose businesses are tied to
    global trade and depend on the efficient movement of goods
    through the global supply chain. The company’s properties
    are primarily located in the world’s busiest distribution
    markets featuring large, supply-constrained infill locations
    with dense populations and proximity to seaports, airports and
    major freeway interchanges. When measured by annualized base
    rent, on an owned and managed basis, a substantial majority of
    the company’s portfolio of industrial properties is located
    in its target markets and much of this is in infill submarkets.
    Infill locations are characterized by supply constraints on the
    availability of land for competing projects as well as





physical, political or economic barriers to new development. The
    company believes that its facilities are essential to creating
    efficiencies in the supply chain and its business encompasses a
    blend of real estate, global logistics and infrastructure.



In its target markets, the company focuses on
    HTD®facilities, industrial properties designed to facilitate the
    rapid distribution of its customers’ products rather than
    the long term storage of goods. The company’s investment
    focus on
    HTD®assets is based on what it believes to be a global trend toward
    lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
    HTD®facilities generally have a variety of physical and locational
    characteristics that allow for the rapid transport of goods from
    point to point. These physical characteristics could include
    numerous dock doors, shallower building depths, fewer columns,
    large truck courts and more space for trailer parking. The
    company believes that these building characteristics help its
    customers to reduce their costs and become more efficient in
    their delivery systems. The locational characteristics feature
    large, supply-constrained infill locations with dense
    populations and proximity to seaports, airports and major
    freeway interchanges. The company’s customers comprise
    logistics, freight forwarding and air-express companies with
    time-sensitive needs that value facilities that are proximate to
    transportation infrastructure.



The company believes that changes in global trade have been a
    primary driver of demand for industrial real estate for decades,
    as the correlation between industrial demand and
    U.S. imports and exports is approximately 80%. The company
    has observed that demand for industrial real estate is further
    influenced by the long-term relationship between trade and GDP.
    Trade and GDP are closely interrelated as higher levels of
    investment, production and consumption within a globalized
    country are consistent with increased levels of imports and
    exports. As the world produces and consumes more, the company
    believes that the volume of global trade will continue to
    increase at a rate well in excess of global GDP. International
    Monetary Fund (IMF) forecasts indicated that global trade fell
    by more than 12% in 2009, the steepest decline in modern
    history. This compares to a forecasted decline of only 1% in
    global GDP. Current 2010 consensus estimates for the
    U.S. and global GDP growth are 2.7% and 3.9%, respectively,
    which the company believes should result in a significant
    rebound in trade and industrial real estate demand.

Primary
    Sources of Revenue and Earnings



The primary source of the company’s core earnings is
    revenues received from its real estate operations and private
    capital business. The principal contributor of its core earnings
    is rent received from customers under long-term (generally three
    to ten years) operating leases at its properties, including
    reimbursements from customers for certain operating costs and
    asset management fees. The company also generates core earnings
    from its private capital business, which include priority
    distributions, acquisition and development fees, promote
    interests and incentive distributions from its co-investment
    ventures. The company may generate additional earnings from the
    disposition of assets in itsdevelopment-for-saleand value-added conversion programs as well as from land sales.

Long-Term
    Growth Strategies



The company believes that its long-term growth will be driven by
    its ability to:



•maintain and increase occupancy ratesand/orincrease rental rates at its properties;•raise third-party equity and grow its earnings from its private
    capital business from the acquisition of new properties or
    through the possible contribution of properties;•acquire industrial real estate with total returns above the
    company’s cost of capital; and•develop properties profitably and either to hold or to sell
    these development properties to third parties.



Growth
    through Operations



The company seeks to generate long-term internal growth by
    maintaining a high occupancy rate at its properties, by
    controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on
    existing space and thus capitalizing on the economies of scale
    inherent in owning, operating and growing a large, global
    portfolio. The company actively manages its portfolio by
    establishing leasing strategies and negotiating lease terms,
    pricing, and level and timing of property improvements. With
    respect to its leasing strategies, the company takes a long-term
    view to ensure that it





maximizes the value of its real estate. As the company continues
    to work through a challenging operating environment and to
    provide flexibility to its customers, the company evaluates and
    adjusts its leasing strategies for market terms and leasing
    rates, which may include leasing terms of less than four years
    in duration. The company believes that its long-standing focus
    on customer relationships and ability to provide global
    solutions for a well-diversified customer base in the logistics,
    shipping, and air cargo industries will enable it to capitalize
    on opportunities as they arise.



The company believes that the strategic locations within its
    portfolio, the experience of its cycle-tested operations team
    and its ability to respond quickly to the needs of its customers
    provides a competitive advantage in leasing. The company
    believes that its regular maintenance programs, capital
    expenditure programs, energy management and sustainability
    programs create cost efficiencies that provide benefit to it and
    its customers.



Growth
    through Co-Investments



The company, through AMB Capital Partners, LLC, its private
    capital group, was one of the pioneers of the real estate
    investment trust (REIT) industry’s co-investment model and
    has more than 26 years of experience in asset management
    and fund formation. The company co-invests in properties with
    private capital investors through partnerships, limited
    liability companies or other joint ventures. The company has a
    direct and long-standing relationship with institutional
    investors. More than 60% of the company’s owned and managed
    operating portfolio is held through its eight co-investment
    ventures. The company tailors industrial portfolios to
    investors’ specific needs in separate or commingled
    accounts and deploys capital in both close-ended and open-ended
    structures, while providing complete portfolio management and
    financial reporting services. Generally, the company is the
    largest investor in its funds and owns a10-50%interest in its co-investment ventures. The company believes
    that its significant ownership of10-50%in
    each of its funds provides a strong alignment of its interest
    with its co-investment partners’ interests.



The company believes that its co-investment program with
    private-capital investors will continue to serve as a source of
    revenues and capital for new investments. In anticipation of the
    formation of future co-investment ventures, the company may also
    hold acquired and newly developed properties for contribution to
    such future co-investment ventures. The company may make
    additional investments through its existing co-investment
    ventures or new co-investment ventures in the future and
    presently plans to do so. The company is in various stages of
    discussions with prospective investors to attract new capital to
    take advantage of potential future opportunities and these
    capital raising activities may include the formation of new
    joint ventures. Such transactions, if the company completes
    them, may be material individually or in aggregate.



Growth
    through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment



The company’s acquisition experience and its network of
    property management, leasing and acquisition resources should
    continue to provide opportunities for growth. In addition to its
    internal resources, the company has long-term relationships with
    lenders, leasing and investment sales brokers, as well as
    third-party local property management firms, which may give it
    access to additional acquisition opportunities because such
    managers frequently market properties on behalf of sellers. The
    company is actively monitoring its target markets and may seek
    opportunities to selectively acquire high-quality, well-located
    industrial real estate. The company strives to enhance the
    quality of its portfolio through acquisitions that are accretive
    to the company’s earnings and its net asset value. In
    addition, the company seeks to redeploy capital from the sale of
    non-strategic assets into properties that better fit its current
    investment focus.



The company is generally engaged in various stages of
    negotiations for a number of acquisitions and other
    transactions, some of which may be significant, that may
    include, but are not limited to, individual properties, large
    multi-property portfolios and platforms or property owning or
    real estate-related entities.



Growth
    through Development



The company’s development business consists of conventional
    development,build-to-suitdevelopment, redevelopment, value-added conversions and land
    sales. Despite the cyclical downturn in the U.S. and global
    economy, the company believes that, over the long term, customer
    demand for new industrial space in strategic





markets tied to global trade will continue to outpace supply,
    most notably in major gateway markets in Asia, Europe and
    Brazil. The company believes that the development, redevelopment
    and expansion of well-located, high-quality industrial
    properties provide attractive investment opportunities at higher
    rates of return, due to the development risk, than may be
    obtained from the purchase of existing properties. Through the
    deployment of its in-house development and redevelopment
    expertise, the company seeks to create value both through new
    construction and the acquisition and management of redevelopment
    opportunities. New developments, redevelopments and value-added
    conversions require significant management attention, and
    development and redevelopment may require significant capital
    investment, to maximize their returns. The company pursues
    development projects directly and in co-investment ventures and
    development joint ventures, providing it with the flexibility to
    pursue development projects independently or in partnerships,
    depending on market conditions, submarkets or building sites and
    availability of capital. Completed development and redevelopment
    properties are held in its owned and managed portfolio or sold
    to third parties.



The company believes that its long-standing focus on infill
    locations creates a unique opportunity to enhance value through
    the conversion of select industrial properties to higher and
    better uses. Value-added conversion projects generally involve a
    significant enhancement or a change in use of the property from
    an industrial facility to a higher and better use, including use
    as research & development, office, residential,
    retail, or manufacturing properties. Activities required to
    prepare the property for conversion to a higher and better use
    may include rezoning, redesigning, reconstructing and
    retenanting. The sales price of a value-added conversion project
    is generally based on the underlying land value, reflecting its
    ultimate higher and better use and, as such, little to no
    residual value is ascribed to the industrial building.
    Generally, the company expects to sell to third parties these
    value-added conversion projects at some point in the
    re-entitlement and conversion process, thus recognizing the
    enhanced value of the underlying land that supports the
    property’s repurposed use. The company believes that its
    global market presence and expertise will enable it to generate
    and capitalize on a diverse range of development opportunities
    over the long term.



The company’s development team has experience in real
    estate development, both with the company and with local,
    national or international development firms. Although the
    company has reduced its development staff in correlation to
    reduced levels of development activity, the company has retained
    certain key investment and development personnel in its most
    productive platforms around the globe to preserve its long-term
    growth potential. This core development team possesses
    multidisciplinary backgrounds that allows for the completion of
    the build-out of the company’s development pipeline, as
    well as the temporary deployment of some of the team members in
    leasing, operations and customer service, as it completes the
    build-out andlease-upof
    its current development pipeline.



See Part IV, Item 15: Note 18 of “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” for segment information
    related to the company’s operations and information
    regarding geographic areas.





