ITEM 1. Business



Prologis, Inc. is a self-administered REIT and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P. We operate Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P. as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and analysis refers to Prologis, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Prologis, L.P., collectively.



Prologis, Inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”). We believe the current organization and method of operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT. Prologis, L.P. also was formed in 1997.



Our corporate headquarters are at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111, and our other principal offices are located in Amsterdam, Denver, Luxembourg, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.



Our Internet address iswww.prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available and can be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website,www.prologis.com. The common stock of Prologis, Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500.



THE COMPANY



We are the global leader in logistics real estate with a focus on high-barrier, high-growth markets.We own, manage and develop high-quality logistics facilities in the world’s most active centers of commerce. An investment in Prologis taps into key drivers of economic growth, including consumption, supply chain modernization, e-commerce and urbanization.



Customers turn to us because they know an efficient supply chain will make their businesses run better, and that a strategic relationship with Prologis will create a competitive advantage. We lease modern logistics facilities to a diverse base of approximately 5,200 customers. These facilities assist the efficient distribution of goods for the world’s best businesses and brands.



We invest in Class-A logistics facilities in the world’s primary population centers with high barriers to entry and supported by extensive transportation infrastructure (major airports, seaports, rail systems and highway systems). We believe our portfolio is the highest-quality logistics property portfolio in the industry because it is focused in those key markets. Our local teams actively manage the portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, new capital deployment activities and an opportunistic disposition program. The majority of our consolidated properties are in the United States (or “U.S.”); while outside the U.S., our properties are generally held in co-investment ventures, which reduces our exposure to movements in foreign currency. Therefore, we are principally an owner-operator in the U.S. and a manager-developer outside the U.S.



Macroeconomics and demographics are important drivers of our business; these drivers include population growth, consumption and rising affluence. In the developed markets of U.S., Europe and Japan, key factors are the reconfiguration of supply chains (strongly influenced by e-commerce trends), and the operational efficiencies that can be realized from our modern logistics facilities. In emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, new affluence and the rise of the consumer classes have prompted demand as supply chains are constructed. Taken together, logistics real estate markets benefit from economic growth, as well as from the modernization of supply chains around the world.






We manage our business on an owned and managed basis, including properties wholly owned by us orowned by one of our co-investment ventures, which allows us to make decisions based on the property operations versus our ownership. We believe the operating fundamentals of our owned and managed portfolio are consistent with those of our consolidated portfolio, and therefore we generally look at operating metrics on an owned and managed basis.



At December 31, 2016, we owned or had investments in, on a wholly owned basis or through co-investment ventures, properties and development projects expected to total $52.1 billion in gross total investment across 676 million square feet (63 million square meters) in 20 countries spanning four continents. Our investment was $30.8 billion, which consisted of our wholly-owned properties and our pro rata (or ownership) share of the properties owned by our co-investment ventures.



Throughout this document, we reflect amounts in U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. Included in these amounts are consolidated and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen that are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated into U.S. dollars. We mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by investing outside the U.S. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in local currency and utilizing derivative instruments.







Details of the 676 million square feet at December 31, 2016, in our owned and managed portfolio were as follows (dollars and square feet in millions):



U.S.Other AmericasEuropeAsiaTotalOperating portfolio (number of buildings)2,0582407361023,136Operating portfolio (square feet)3585117241622Development portfolio (square feet)12491944Other real estate properties (square feet)7-2110Total square feet3775518361676Operating portfolio (gross book value)$27,148$3,100$12,010$5,021$47,279Development portfolio (TEI) (1)9243046691,4883,385Land portfolio (gross book value)4743564311641,425Total$28,546$3,760$13,110$6,673$52,089






(1)Total expected investment (“TEI”) represents total estimated cost of development orexpansion, including land, development and leasing costs without any depreciation. TEI is based on current projections and is subject to change. Non-U.S. dollar investments were translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at period end.



Our operating portfolio includes stabilized logistics facilities in our owned and managed portfolio. A developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets stabilization. The property is considered stabilized when a development project has been completed for one year or is at least 90% occupied, whichever occurs first.



BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OPERATING SEGMENTS



Our business comprises two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital.



REAL ESTATE –RENTAL OPERATIONSGenerate revenues and net operating income (“NOI”) by maintaining high occupancy rates and increasing rentsREAL ESTATE –DEVELOPMENTGenerate value from developmentSTRATEGIC CAPITALAccess third-party capital to grow our business and earn recurring fees and promotesWe have a high-quality logistics portfolio that serves premier companies across the globe. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we:•generated over 90% of our consolidated revenues and NOI from our buildings in the U.S.•increased consolidated revenues and NOI over 12% from 2015•ended the year with consolidated occupancy of 97.0%Development contributes to significant earnings growth as projects lease up and generate revenues and NOI. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we:•stabilized a total estimated investment in our owned and managed portfolio of $2.5 billion of development projects with an estimated weighted average margin of 25.5%•created $640 million of value (of which $571 million is our share)Durable fee stream with more than 90% from perpetual or long-life co-investment ventures with some of the world’s largest institutional partners. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we:•generated approximately 90% of our consolidated Strategic Capital revenues from outside the U.S.•increased consolidated Strategic Capital revenues over 40% from 2015



Real Estate Operations



Rental Operations.Rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and contributed approximately 90% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations in 2016 (see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information on funds from operations, a non-GAAP measure). We collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. We expect to generate long-term internal growth by maintaining high occupancy rates, increasing rents and controlling expenses. We believe our active portfolio management, coupled with the skills of our property, leasing, maintenance, capital, energy and risk management teams, will allow us to maximize rental revenues across our portfolio. In 2016, over 90% of our consolidated revenues and NOI in this segment were generated in the U.S.NOI from this segment is calculated directly from our financial statements as rental revenues, rental recoveries and development management and other revenues less rental expenses and other expenses.



Development.We utilize (i) our land bank, (ii) the development expertise of our local teams, (iii) our customer relationships and (iv) our in-depth local knowledge in connection with our development activities. Successful development and redevelopment efforts increase both the rental revenues and the net asset value of our Real Estate Operations segment. We measure the value we created based on the increase in estimated fair value of a stabilized development property, as compared to the costs incurred. Generally, we develop properties in the U.S. for long-term hold and outside the U.S. for contribution to our co-investment ventures. Occasionally, we develop for sale to third parties.



Strategic Capital



Real estate is a capital-intensive business that requires growth capital. Our strategic capital business gives us access to third-party capital, both private and public, which allows us to diversify our sources of capital and therefore have a broader range of options to fund our growth. We co-invest with some of the world’s largest institutional partners to grow our business and provide incremental revenues. We also access alternative sources of equity through two publicly traded vehicles: Nippon Prologis REIT, Inc. (“NPR”) in Japan and FIBRA Prologis in Mexico. We tailor logistics portfolios to meet our partners’ specific needs, with a focus on long-term ventures and open-ended funds. We hold significant ownership interests in these ventures, aligning our interests with those of our partners.






We generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated ventures principally through asset management and property management services, and we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing and disposition services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn revenues through incentive fees (“promotes”) periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. In 2016, we earned promote revenues in Europe of $89 million. Approximately 40% of promote revenues are paid as a combination of cash and stock awards pursuant to the terms of the Prologis Promote Plan and expensed throughStrategic Capital Expenses.This segment contributed approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations in 2016. We plan to grow this business through increasing the assets under management in our existing ventures. In 2016, approximately 90% of the consolidated revenues and NOI in this segment were generated outside the U.S. NOI in this segment is calculated asStrategic Capital RevenueslessStrategic Capital Expensesdirectly from each line item in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and does not include property related NOI.



Competition



Competitively priced logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse effect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could affect both of our operating segments. We may face competition with regard to our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national operators or developers. We also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital business.



We believe we have competitive advantages due to our:



•properties being focused in the world’s primary population centers with high barriers to entry and supported by extensive transportation infrastructure;



•ability to respond quickly to customers’ needs for high-quality logistics facilities;



•established relationships with key customers served by our local teams;



•ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers through our global customer solutions team;



•property management and leasing expertise;



•relationships and proven track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business;



•experience developing and managing logistics facilities;



•well-positioned land bank; and



•team members with experience in the land entitlement and development processes.



Customers



Our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. At December 31, 2016, in our Real Estate Operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 3,200 customers occupying 334 million square feet of logistics space. On an owned and managed basis, we had more than 5,200 customers occupying 625 million square feet of logistics space.



In our Strategic Capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. At December 31, 2016, in our private ventures, we partnered with approximately 100 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures.






The following table details our top 25 customers at December 31, 2016 (square feet in millions):



Consolidated – Real Estate OperationsOwned and ManagedTop Customers% of NER (1)Total Occupied Square FeetTop Customers% of NER (1)Total Occupied Square Feet1.   Amazon.com5.0131.   Amazon.com3.1152.   Home Depot1.852.   DHL1.6103.   FedEx1.333.   Geodis1.294.   XPO Logistics1.044.   XPO Logistics1.295.   Wal-Mart0.935.   Kuehne + Nagel1.176.   BMW0.936.   FedEx1.047.   U.S. Government0.917.   Home Depot0.968.   Ingram Micro0.828.   CEVA Logistics0.969.   PepsiCo0.739.   Wal-Mart0.8510. DSV Air and Sea0.6210. DSV Air and Sea0.85Top 10 Customers13.939Top 10 Customers12.67611. UPS0.6211. Nippon Express0.7312. Kuehne + Nagel0.6212. BMW0.6413. APL Logistics0.6213. UPS0.6314. Best Buy0.6214. Hitachi0.5215. DHL0.5215. DB Schenker0.5416. Cal Cartage Company0.5116. U.S. Government0.5117. Sears0.5217. Tesco0.5318. Kimberly-Clark0.5218. Ingram Micro0.5319. Geodis0.5219. Panalpina0.4220. NFI Industries0.4220. PepsiCo0.4321. Office Depot0.4121. Samsung Electronics0.3222. Kellogg's0.4222. Best Buy0.3223. Mohawk Industries0.4123. APL Logistics0.3224. C&S Wholesale Grocers0.4124. Under Armour0.3225. Anixter0.4125. La Poste0.32Top 25 Customers21.264Top 25 Customers19.3114



(1)Net effective rent (“NER”) is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease (including base rent and expense reimbursements) divided by the lease term to determine the amount of rent and expense reimbursements received per year. Amounts derived in a currency other than the U.S. dollar have been translated using the average rate from the previous twelve months.



Employees



The following table summarizes our employee base at December 31, 2016:



RegionsNumber of EmployeesU.S. (1)830Other Americas105Europe370Asia225Total1,530



(1)This includes employees who are employed in the U.S. but also support other regions.



We allocate our employees who perform property management functions to our Real Estate Operations segment and Strategic Capital segment based on the size of the respective portfolios. Employees who perform only Strategic Capital functions are allocated directly to that segment.



We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining agreements, although some employees in Europe are represented by statutory Works Councils and as such, benefit from applicable labor agreements.



CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT



We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our board of directors (the “Board”) and all of our officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer, and other people performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website,www.prologis.com. In addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be disclosed on our website.






ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and affect our operating results and financial condition. Either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired, including land. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental assessments has revealed an environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



INSURANCE COVERAGE



We carry insurance coverage on our properties. We determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity. The costs to insure our properties are primarily covered through reimbursements from our customers. We believe that our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors.



