
10-K405
10-K405




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K405

                  (Mark one)
         /X/      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 30, 1999

                                       OR

         / /      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15 (d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                  For the transition period from _______ to _______

                         Commission file number 0-14678

                                ROSS STORES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              DELAWARE                                  94-1390387
   (State or other jurisdiction            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
of incorporation or organization)

8333 CENTRAL AVENUE, NEWARK, CALIFORNIA                 94560-3433
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code         (510) 505-4400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:      NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                                 Name of each exchange
       Title of each class                         on which registered
  ----------------------------             ----------------------------------
   COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01                        NASDAQ/NMS

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has (1) filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
 Yes /X/ No / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent files pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant as of April 2, 1999 was $1,740,167,003. Shares of voting stock
held by each director and executive officer and each person who on that date
owned 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock have been excluded in that
such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.

The number of shares of Common Stock, with $.01 par value, outstanding on April
2, 1999 was 45,802,686.

Documents incorporated by reference:
         Portions of the Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1999 Annual Meeting of
         Stockholders, which will be filed on or before April 30, 1999, are
         incorporated herein by reference into Part III.




                                     PART I


ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

     Ross Stores, Inc. ("Ross" or "company") operates a chain of off-price
retail apparel and home accessories stores which target value conscious men and
women between the ages of 25 and 54 in white collar, middle-to-upper middle
income households which the company believes to be the largest customer segment
in the retailing industry. The decisions of the company, from merchandising,
purchasing and pricing, to the location of its stores, are aimed at this
customer base. The company offers its merchandise at low everyday prices,
generally 20% to 60% below regular prices of most department and specialty
stores. The company believes it derives a competitive advantage by offering a
wide assortment of quality brand-name merchandise within each of its merchandise
categories in an attractive easy-to-shop environment.

     Ross' mission is to offer competitive values to its target customers by
focusing on the following key strategic objectives:

- -    Achieve an appropriate level of recognizable brands and labels at strong
     discounts throughout the store;

- -    Meet customer needs on a more regional basis;

- -    Deliver an in-store shopping experience that reflects the expectations of
     the off-price customer; and

- -    Manage real estate growth to maintain leadership or achieve parity with the
     competition in key markets.

     The original Ross Stores, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1957. In
August 1982, the company was purchased by some of its then current directors and
stockholders. The six stores acquired were completely refurbished in the
company's off-price format and stocked with new merchandise. In June 1989 the
company reincorporated in the state of Delaware.

MERCHANDISING, PURCHASING AND PRICING

     Ross seeks to provide its customers with a wide assortment of first
quality, in-season, name-brand apparel, accessories and footwear for the entire
family at everyday savings of 20% to 60% from regular department and specialty
store prices, as well as similar savings on fragrances, gift items for the home,
bed and bath merchandise and accessories. Although not a fashion leader, the
company sells recognizable branded merchandise that is current and fashionable
in each category. The company reviews its merchandise mix each week, enabling it
to respond to merchandise trends and purchasing opportunities in the market. The
company's merchandising strategy is reflected in its advertising, which
emphasizes its strong value message -- Ross' customers get great savings on
name-brand merchandise every day of the year.

     MERCHANDISING. The Ross merchandising strategy incorporates a combination
of in-season and past-season apparel, shoes and accessories for the entire
family, as well as fragrances, giftware and linens for the home. The company's
emphasis on brand names reflects management's conviction that brand-name
merchandise sold at compelling discounts will continue to be an important
determinant of its success. Ross generally leaves the brand-name label on the
merchandise it sells.

     The company has established a merchandise assortment which it believes is
attractive to its target customer group. Although Ross offers fewer
classifications of merchandise than most department stores, the company
generally offers a large selection of brand names within each classification
with a wide assortment of vendors, prices, colors, styles and fabrics within
each size. Over the past several years, the company has diversified its
merchandise offerings by adding new product categories such as maternity, small
sporting goods and exercise equipment, small electronics, tabletop lamps, small
furnishings, educational toys and games, luggage, gourmet food and cookware, and
fine jewelry in certain stores. For fiscal 1998, the overall merchandise sales
mix was approximately 95% first quality merchandise and 5% irregulars. The
respective departments accounted for total sales in fiscal 1998 approximately as
follows: Ladies 34%, Men's 21%, Home 





Accents, Bed and Bath and Fine Jewelry 15%, Accessories, Hosiery, Lingerie and
Fragrances 12%, Shoes 9% and Children's 9%.

     PURCHASING. During the past three years, no single vendor has accounted for
more than 3% of the company's purchases. The company continues to add new
vendors and believes it has adequate sources of first quality merchandise to
meet its requirements. The company purchases the vast majority of its
merchandise directly from manufacturers and has not experienced any difficulty
in obtaining sufficient inventory.

     The company believes that its ability to effectively execute certain
off-price buying strategies is a key factor in its business. Ross buyers use a
number of methods that enable the company to offer customers name-brand
merchandise at strong everyday discounts relative to department and specialty
stores. By purchasing later in the merchandise buying cycle than department and
specialty stores, Ross is able to take advantage of imbalances in
manufacturer-projected supply of merchandise.

     Ross, unlike most department and specialty stores, does not require that
manufacturers provide promotional and markdown allowances, return privileges and
delayed deliveries. In addition, deliveries are made to one of the company's two
distribution centers. These flexible requirements further enable the company's
buyers to obtain significant discounts on in-season purchases.

     The company has increased its emphasis in recent years on opportunistic
purchases created by manufacturer overruns and canceled orders both during and
at the end of a season. These buys are referred to as "closeout" or "packaway"
purchases. Closeouts can be shipped to stores in season. Closeouts allow the
company to get in season goods in its stores at lower prices. Packaway
merchandise is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in the company's
warehouses until the beginning of the next selling season. Packaway purchases
are an effective method of increasing the percentage of prestige and national
brands at competitive savings within the merchandise assortments. Packaway
merchandise is mainly fashion basics and, therefore, not usually affected by
shifts in fashion trends.

     Throughout the 1990s, Ross gradually increased the amount of packaway
inventories. In 1998, the company continued to increase these important
resources in response to compelling opportunities available in the marketplace.
It is management's belief that the stronger discounts the company is able to
offer on packaway merchandise are a key driver of Ross' business. In-store
inventories at the end of fiscal 1998 were up 1% on a comparable store basis to
the prior year, and total consolidated inventories were up 11% due to the
investment at year-end in additional packaway goods and inventory for the new
stores.

     The company is developing enhanced systems and processes for regionalized
merchandise buying and allocation. The goal is to fine tune the merchandise mix
and raise sales productivity in markets that are performing below the company
average. Full implementation is scheduled for completion in 2001.

     Ross' buying offices are located in New York City and Los Angeles, the
nation's two largest apparel markets. These strategic locations allow buyers to
be in the market on a daily basis, sourcing opportunities and negotiating
purchases with vendors and manufacturers. These locations also enable the
company's buyers to strengthen vendor relationships -- a key determinant in the
success of its off-price buying strategies.

     The company's buyers have an average of 10 years of experience, including
experience with other retailers such as Bloomingdale's, Burlington Coat Factory,
Dayton Hudson, Lord & Taylor, Macy's, Marshalls, Montgomery Wards, T.J. Maxx and
Value City. In keeping with its strategy, over the past several years the
company has more than tripled the size of its merchandising staff. Management
believes that this increase enables its merchants to spend even more time in the
market which, in turn, should strengthen the company's ability to procure the
most desirable brands at competitive discounts.

     This combination of off-price buying strategies enables the company to
purchase merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by department
and specialty stores.





     PRICING. The company's policy is to sell brand-name merchandise that can
generally be priced at 20% to 60% less than most department and specialty store
regular prices. The Ross pricing policy is to affix a ticket displaying the
company's selling price as well as the estimated comparable selling price of
that item at department and specialty stores.

     The Ross pricing strategy differs from that of a department or specialty
store. Ross purchases its merchandise at lower prices and marks it up less than
a department or specialty store. This strategy enables Ross to offer customers
consistently low prices. Ticketed prices are not increased and are reviewed
weekly for possible markdowns based on the rate of sales and the end of fashion
seasons to promote faster turnover of inventory and accelerate the flow of fresh
merchandise.

THE ROSS STORE

     As of January 30, 1999, the company operated 349 stores. They are
conveniently located in predominantly community and neighborhood strip shopping
centers in heavily populated urban and suburban areas. Where the size of the
market permits, the company clusters stores to maximize economies of scale in
advertising, distribution and management.

     The company believes a key element of its success is the attractive,
easy-to-shop environment in its stores which allows customers to shop at their
own pace. The Ross store is designed for customer convenience in its merchandise
presentation, dressing rooms, checkout and merchandise return areas. The Ross
store's sales area is based on a prototype single floor design with a racetrack
aisle layout. A customer can locate desired departments by signs displayed just
below the ceiling of each department. Ross encourages its customers to select
among sizes and prices through prominent category and sizing markers, promoting
a self-service atmosphere. At most stores, shopping carts are available at the
entrance for customer convenience. Checkout stations are located at store
entrances for customer ease and efficient employee assignment.

     The company minimizes transaction time for the customer at the checkout
counter by using electronic systems for scanning each ticket at the point of
sale and authorizing credit for personal checks and credit cards in a matter of
seconds. Approximately 38% of payments are made with credit cards. Ross provides
cash or credit card refunds on all merchandise returned with a receipt within 30
days. Merchandise returns having a receipt older than 30 days are exchanged or
credited with a Ross Credit Voucher at the price on the receipt.

OPERATING COSTS

     Consistent with the other aspects of its business strategy, Ross strives to
keep operating costs as low as possible. Among the factors which have enabled
the company to operate at low costs are:

- -    Low labor costs resulting from (i) a store design that creates a
     self-selection retail format and (ii) the utilization of labor saving
     technologies.

- -    Economies of scale with respect to general and administrative costs as a
     result of centralized merchandising, marketing and purchasing decisions.

- -    Model store layout criteria which facilitate conversion of existing
     buildings to the Ross format.

- -    A fully-integrated, on-line management information system which enables the
     company to respond quickly when making purchasing, merchandising and
     pricing decisions.

DISTRIBUTION

     The company has two distribution centers -- one located in Newark,
California (approximately 494,000 square feet) and the second located in
Carlisle, Pennsylvania (approximately 424,000 square feet). Having a
distribution center on each coast enhances cost efficiencies per unit and
decreases turn-around time in getting the merchandise from the vendors to the
stores. Shipments are made by contract carriers to the stores about five times a
week depending on location.



CONTROL SYSTEMS

     The company's management information system fully integrates data from
significant phases of its operations and is a key element in the company's
planning, purchasing, store allocation and pricing decisions. The system enables
Ross to respond to changes in the retail market and to increase speed and
accuracy in its merchandise distribution.

     Data from the current and last fiscal year can be monitored on levels
ranging from merchandise classification units to overall totals for the company.
Merchandise is tracked by the system from the creation of its purchase order,
through its receipt at the distribution center, through the distribution
planning process, and ultimately to the point of sale.

ADVERTISING

     The company utilizes extensive advertising which emphasizes quality, brand
name merchandise at low everyday prices. The company predominantly uses
television advertising. This reflects the company's belief that television is
the best medium for presenting Ross' everyday low price message.

TRADEMARKS

     The trademark for Ross Dress For Less-Registered Trademark- has been
registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

EMPLOYEES

     On January 30, 1999, the company had approximately 20,100 employees which
includes an estimated 12,400 part-time employees. Additionally, the company
hires temporary employees -- especially during the peak seasons. The company's
employees are non-union. Management of the company considers the relationship
between the company and its employees to be excellent.

COMPETITION

     The company believes the principal competitive factors in the off-price
retail apparel industry are offering large discounts on name brand merchandise
appealing to its target customer and consistently providing a store environment
that is convenient and easy to shop. To execute this concept, the company has
strengthened its buying organization and developed a merchandise allocation
system to distribute product based on regional factors, as well as other systems
and procedures to maximize cost efficiencies and leverage expenses in an effort
to mitigate competitive pressures on gross margin. The company believes that it
is well positioned to compete on the basis of each of these factors.

     Nevertheless, the national apparel retail market is highly fragmented. Ross
faces intense competition for business from department stores, specialty stores,
discount stores, other off-price retailers and manufacturer-owned outlet stores,
many of which are units of large national or regional chains that have
substantially greater resources than Ross. The retail apparel business may
become even more competitive in the future.


ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

STORES

     From August 1982 to January 30, 1999, the company expanded from six stores
in California to 349 stores in 17 states: Arizona, California, Colorado,
Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oklahoma,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Washington. All stores are
leased, with the exception of one.

     During fiscal 1998, the company opened 26 new Ross `Dress For Less' stores,
closed two existing locations and relocated six locations. The typical new Ross
store is approximately 30,000 square feet, yielding approximately 25,000 square
feet of selling space. As of January 30, 1999, the company's 349 stores
generally ranged in size from about 24,000 to 35,000 gross square feet and had
an average of 22,000 square feet of selling space.



     During the fiscal year ended January 30, 1999, no one store accounted for
more than 1% of the company's sales. The company carries earthquake insurance on
its corporate headquarters, both distribution centers and on its stores in
California.

     The company's real estate strategy is to open additional stores mainly in
existing market areas, to increase its market penetration and reduce overhead
and advertising expenses as a percentage of sales in each market. Important
considerations in evaluating a new market are the availability of potential
sites, demographic characteristics, competition and population density of the
market. In fiscal 1999 and 2000, the company plans to focus its new store growth
primarily in existing markets. In addition, management continues to seek
opportunistic real estate acquisitions.

     Where possible, the company has obtained sites in existing buildings
requiring minimal alterations. This has allowed Ross to establish stores in new
locations in a relatively short period of time at reasonable costs in a given
market. To date, the company has been able to secure leases in suitable
locations for its stores. At January 30, 1999, the majority of the company's
stores had unexpired original lease terms ranging from three to 15 years with
three to four renewal options of five years each. The average unexpired original
lease term of its leased stores is six years, or 18 years if renewal options are
included. (See Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Most of the
company's store leases contain a provision for percentage rental payments after
a specified sales level has been achieved.

DISTRIBUTION CENTERS

     In June 1998, the company purchased its Newark, California distribution
center for $24.6 million. The Newark facility is also the company's corporate
headquarters. The company also owns its distribution center in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania.

     The company's two distribution centers currently have processing capacity
to support store growth through fiscal 1999 and beyond. This reflects the
company's recent investment in distribution systems along with the potential to
expand work shifts.

     In September 1997, the company entered into a five-year lease for an
approximately 214,500 square foot warehouse in Newark, California. In February
1998, the company entered into a three-year lease for an approximately 239,000
square foot warehouse in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. In August 1998, the company
leased an additional 246,000 square foot warehouse in Carlisle, Pennsylvania,
for a three and one half year term. In November 1998, the company entered into a
five-year lease for an additional 97,000 square foot warehouse in Newark,
California. All of these buildings store the company's packaway inventory.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The company is a party to routine litigation incident to its business.
Management believes that none of these legal proceedings will have a material
adverse effect on the company's financial condition or results of operations.


ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.







                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


     The following list sets forth the names and ages of all executive officers
of the company, indicating each person's principal occupation or employment
during at least the past five years. The term of office is at the pleasure of
the Board of Directors.



- -------------------------

     Mr. Balmuth joined the Board of Directors as Vice Chairman and became Chief
Executive Officer in September 1996. Prior to that, he served as the company's
Executive Vice President, Merchandising since July 1993 and Senior Vice
President and General Merchandising Manager since November 1989. Before joining
Ross, he was Senior Vice President and General Merchandising Manager at Bon
Marche in Seattle from September 1988 through November 1989. From April 1986 to
September 1988, he served as Executive Vice President and General Merchandising
Manager for Karen Austin Petites.

     Mr. Wilmore has served as President, Chief Operating Officer and a member
of the Board of Directors since March 1993. Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since December 1991. From
October 1989 to December 1991, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of
Live Specialty Retail, a division of LIVE Entertainment, Inc. From March 1988 to
June 1989, he was President/General Partner of Albert's Acquisition Corporation.
From March 1987 to March 1988, Mr. Wilmore was engaged in the acquisition of
Albert's Hosiery and Bodywear by Albert's Acquisition Corporation. From April
1984 to March 1987, he was the President and Chief Operating Officer of Zale
Jewelry Stores, a division of Zale Corporation.

     Mr. Call has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Corporate Secretary since June 1997. From June 1993 until joining Ross in 1997,
Mr. Call was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and
Treasurer of Friedman's Inc. For five years prior to joining Friedman's in June
1993, Mr. Call held various positions with Ernst & Young, LLP, most recently as
a Senior Manager in the San Francisco office.



     Ms. Council has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources since
March 1998. Prior to that, she served as the company's Vice President of Human
Resources, Compensation, Payroll, Distribution and Risk Management/Benefits
since August 1997 and as the company's Vice President, Human Resources of Stores
since March 1992. She joined the company in January 1989 as Director of
Management and Organizational Development.

     Mr. Fassio has served as Senior Vice President, Property Development since
March 1991. He joined the company in June 1988 as Vice President of Real Estate.
Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Fassio was Vice President, Real Estate and
Construction at Craftmart and Property Director of Safeway Stores, Inc.

     Mr. Gluck has served as Senior Vice President and General Merchandising
Manager since August 1993. He joined the company in February 1989 as Vice
President and Divisional Merchandising Manager. Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Gluck
served as General Merchandising Manager, Vice President for Today's Man from May
1987 to February 1989. From March 1982 to April 1987, he was Vice President,
Divisional Merchandising Manager, Men's, Children and Luggage of Macy's Atlanta.

     Mr. Hamilton has served as Senior Vice President, Stores since March 1999.
From October 1996 to March 1999, he was Executive Vice President, Operations for
Hill's Department Stores. From April 1993 to October 1996, he served as
Executive Vice President, Stores for Venture Stores. Prior to that, he held
various executive and managerial positions at Venture Stores.

     Ms. Irene Jamieson has served as Senior Vice President and General
Merchandising Manager since January 1995. From December 1992 to January 1995,
she served as Vice President and Divisional Merchandising Manager. Prior to
joining Ross, Ms. Jamieson served as Vice President and Divisional Merchandising
Manager of the Home Store for Lord & Taylor from September 1983 to December
1992.

     Ms. Megan Jamieson has served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning
since February 1999. From January 1997 to February 1999, she served as Director
of Strategy for Sears, Roebuck and Co.'s full-line store division. Prior to
Sears, she was a case team leader with the consulting firm Bain & Co.

     Ms. Levy has served as Senior Vice President and General Merchandising
Manager since May 1993. Prior to joining Ross, Ms. Levy was with R. H. Macy &
Co., Inc. most recently as Senior Vice President and General Merchandising
Manager from January 1992 to April 1993 and before that as their Regional
Director - Stores from May 1989 to January 1992 and from August 1985 to May 1989
as their Divisional Merchandising Manager - Better Sportswear.






PART II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     GENERAL INFORMATION. See the information set forth under the caption
"Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" under Note H to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this document which is incorporated herein by
reference. The company's stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market tier of
The Nasdaq Stock MarketSM under the symbol ROST. There were 814 stockholders of
record as of April 2, 1999, and the closing stock price on that date was $43.875
per share.

     CASH DIVIDENDS. During fiscal 1998 and 1997, the company paid a quarterly
cash dividend of $0.055 and $0.045, respectively, per common share. On January
28, 1999, the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.065 per
common share.


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA




(1)  Fiscal 1995 is a 53-week year; all other fiscal years have 52 weeks.
(2)  All per share information is adjusted to reflect the effect of the
     two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on
     March 5, 1997.




SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA




(1)  Fiscal 1995 is a 53-week year; all other fiscal years have 52 weeks.
(2)  All per share information is adjusted to reflect the effect of the
     two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on
     March 5, 1997. 
(3)  Based on average annual selling square footage.






ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The fiscal years ended January 30, 1999, January 31, 1998 and February 1, 1997
are referred to as 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS




STORES. Total stores open at the end of 1998, 1997 and 1996 were 349, 325 and
309, respectively. During 1998, the company opened 26 new stores and closed two
stores. During 1997, the company opened 17 new stores and closed one store.
During 1996, the company opened 21 new stores and closed four stores.

SALES. The increases in sales for 1998, 1997 and 1996 were due to an increase in
comparable store sales and a greater number of stores in operation. The company
anticipates that the competitive climate for apparel and off-price retailers
will continue in 1999. Management expects to address that challenge by
continuing to strengthen the merchandise organization, diversify the merchandise
mix and purchase goods more opportunistically. Although the company's existing
strategies and store expansion program contributed to sales and earnings gains
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, there can be no assurance that these strategies will
result in a continuation of revenue and profit growth.

COST OF GOODS SOLD AND OCCUPANCY. The reduction in the cost of goods sold and
occupancy ratio in 1998 resulted primarily from higher sales, an increase in the
initial mark-up from purchasing more opportunistically and leverage on occupancy
costs. The reduction in the cost of goods sold and occupancy ratio in 1997
resulted primarily from higher sales, leverage on occupancy costs and lower
markdowns as a percentage of sales. There can be no assurance that the
improvement experienced in 1998 will continue in future years.

GENERAL, SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. During 1998, general, selling and
administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased, primarily due to
costs associated with the company's year 2000 remediation efforts. The reduction
in the general, selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in
1997 resulted primarily from the leverage realized from the significant increase
in comparable store sales combined with continued strong cost controls.

The largest component of general, selling and administrative expenses is
payroll. The total number of employees, including both full- and part-time, at
year-end 1998, 1997 and 1996, was approximately 20,100, 17,000 and 14,900,
respectively.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION. Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of
sales has remained relatively constant over the last three years, due primarily
to the consistent level of fixed assets in each store.

INTEREST. Due to higher average borrowings during 1998, interest expense
increased from 1997. The increase in average borrowings in 1998 was due to
expenditures of $110.0 million to repurchase 2.8 million shares of common stock,
higher 





capital expenditures, including the purchase of the company's Newark,
California, distribution center and corporate headquarters for $24.6 million,
offset partially by the higher earnings levels. Higher average borrowings in
1997 resulted in an increase in interest expense from 1996. The increase in
average borrowings in 1997 was due to expenditures of $98.1 million to
repurchase three million shares of common stock, offset partially by the higher
earnings levels and cash flows from issuances of common stock relating to stock
plans.

TAXES ON EARNINGS. The company's effective rate for 1998, 1997 and 1996 was 39%,
40% and 40%, respectively, which represents the applicable federal and state
statutory rates reduced by the federal benefit received for state taxes. During
1999, the company expects its effective tax rate to remain at approximately 39%.


FINANCIAL CONDITION

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, liquidity and
capital requirements were provided by cash flows from operations, the revolving
credit facility and trade credit. The company's store sites, certain warehouses
and buying offices are leased and, except for certain leasehold improvements and
equipment, do not represent long-term capital investments. Commitments related
to operating leases are described in Note C to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The company's Carlisle, Pennsylvania, distribution center is owned
outright by the company. The company exercised its right to purchase its Newark,
California, distribution center and corporate headquarters for $24.6 million and
completed this transaction in June 1998 with funding provided by cash generated
by operations and bank borrowings under the company's existing credit agreement.
Short-term trade credit represents a significant source of financing for
investments in merchandise inventory. Trade credit arises from customary trade
practices with the company's vendors. Management regularly reviews the adequacy
of credit available to the company from all sources and has been able to
maintain adequate lines to meet the capital and liquidity requirements of the
company.

During 1998, the primary uses of cash, other than for operating expenditures,
were for merchandise inventory, property and equipment to open 26 new stores,
the relocation, remodeling or expansion of 20 stores, the repurchase in the open
market of $110.0 million of the company's common stock, the purchase of the
company's Newark, California, distribution center and corporate headquarters,
and quarterly cash dividend payments. During 1997, the primary uses of cash,
other than for operating expenditures, were for merchandise inventory including
a planned increase in packaway inventory, property and equipment to open 17 new
stores, the relocation or remodeling of six stores, the repurchase in the open
market of $98.1 million of the company's common stock and quarterly cash
dividend payments. During 1996, the primary uses of cash, other than for
operating expenditures, were for merchandise inventory including a planned
increase in packaway inventory, property and equipment to open 21 new stores,
the remodeling of seven stores, the repurchase in the open market of $80.4
million of the company's common stock and quarterly cash dividend payments. In
1998, 1997 and 1996, the company spent approximately $78.5 million, $33.3
million and $37.1 million, respectively, for capital expenditures, net of leased
equipment, that included fixtures and leasehold improvements to open 26, 17 and
21 stores, respectively; relocation, remodeling or expansion costs for twenty,
six and seven stores, respectively; modifications in the buying office, purchase
of previously leased equipment and various expenditures for existing stores and
the central office. In addition, the $78.5 million in 1998 included $24.6
million to purchase the company's Newark, California, distribution center and
corporate headquarters.

The company currently anticipates opening approximately 30 stores, net of
closures, each year in 1999 and 2000. The company anticipates that this growth
will be financed primarily from cash flows from operating activities and
available credit facilities.

In January 1999, an 18% increase in the quarterly cash dividend payment from
$.055 to $.065 per common share was declared by the company's Board of
Directors, payable on or about April 5, 1999. The Board of Directors declared
quarterly cash dividends of $.055 per common share in January, May, August and
November 1998 and $.045 per common share in January, May, August and November
1997. The company uses cash flows from operating activities and available credit
facilities to fund dividend payments.

The company repurchased a total of $110.0 million of common stock in 1998. In
January 1999, the company announced that its Board of Directors authorized an
additional stock repurchase program of up to $120.0 million. The company
anticipates funding this new program through cash flows from operating
activities and available credit facilities.



The company has available under its principal bank credit agreement a $160.0
million revolving credit facility and a $30.0 million credit facility, the
latter solely for the issuance of letters of credit, both of which expire
September 2002. Additionally, the company has uncommitted short-term bank lines
of credit that at January 30, 1999 totaled $45.0 million. At year-end 1998, 1997
and 1996, there were no outstanding balances under any credit facility. For
additional information relating to these obligations, refer to Note B to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Working capital was $170.8 million at the end of 1998, compared to $174.7
million at the end of 1997 and $134.8 million at the end of 1996. At year-end
1998, 1997 and 1996, the company's current ratios were 1.4:1, 1.5:1 and 1.4:1,
respectively.

The company's primary source of liquidity is the sale of its merchandise
inventory. Management regularly reviews the age and condition of the merchandise
and is able to maintain current inventory in its stores through the
replenishment processes and liquidation of non-current merchandise through
markdowns and clearances.

The company realized stronger cash flows in 1998 and 1997 due to increased
earnings, tighter inventory controls with improved in-store inventory turnover
and a strong emphasis on controlling expenses. These resources enabled the
company to pay down all bank borrowings at each year-end.

The company estimates that cash flows from operations, bank credit lines and
trade credit are adequate to meet operating cash needs as well as to provide for
the stock repurchase program of up to $120.0 million, dividend payments and
planned capital additions during the upcoming year.


YEAR 2000 MATTERS

The year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using two
digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Certain information
technology systems and their associated software ("IT Systems"), and certain
equipment that uses programmable logic chips to control aspects of their
operation ("embedded chip equipment"), may recognize "00" as a year other than
the year 2000. Some IT Systems and embedded chip equipment used by the company
and by third parties who do business with the company contain two-digit
programming to define a year. The year 2000 issue could result, at the company
and elsewhere, in system failures or miscalculations causing disruptions of
operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability to process
transactions or to engage in other normal business activities.

READINESS FOR YEAR 2000. The company is addressing its year 2000 issue,
including efforts relating to IT Systems and embedded chip equipment used within
the company, efforts to address issues the company faces if third parties who do
business with the company are not prepared for the year 2000, and contingency
planning. In 1997, the company created a corporation-wide year 2000 task force
representing all business and staff units with the goal of achieving an
uninterrupted transition into the year 2000. The company is using both internal
and external resources to identify, correct, upgrade or replace and test its IT
Systems and embedded chip equipment for year 2000 compliance. Some systems
development projects not related to the year 2000 work have been deferred from
1998 to 1999 and 2000 in order to devote sufficient resources to complete the
year 2000 work on schedule.

The company uses a variety of IT Systems, internally developed and third-party
provided software and embedded chip equipment, depending upon business function
and location. For these IT Systems, software and embedded chip equipment, the
company has divided its year 2000 efforts into four phases: (i) identification
and inventorying of IT Systems and embedded chip equipment with potential year
2000 problems; (ii) assessment of scope of year 2000 issues for, and assigning
priorities to, each item based on its importance to the company's operations;
(iii) remediation of year 2000 issues in accordance with assigned priorities, by
correction, upgrade, replacement or retirement; (iv) testing for and validation
of year 2000 compliance, including integration testing. Phases (i) and (ii) are
complete across all business functions and locations. The company has
categorized as "mission critical" those IT Systems and embedded chip equipment
whose failure would cause cessation of store operations, or could otherwise have
a sustained and significant detrimental financial impact on the company. All
mission critical IT Systems either are currently in phase (iv) or have been
completed through phase (iv). The majority of embedded chip equipment is in
phase (iii). As of March 1999, approximately 75% of the company's mission
critical IT Systems were determined to be year 2000 compliant, or replacements,
changes, upgrades or workarounds have been identified, tested and deployed. The
company is in the process of conducting a comprehensive 



program of integration testing of its IT Systems in order to ensure that all
systems still work together properly and without year 2000 problems. This
integration testing began in the third quarter of 1998 and will continue into
fiscal year 1999.

The company's operations are also dependent on the year 2000 readiness of third
parties that do business with the company. In particular, the company's IT
Systems interact with commercial electronic transaction processing systems to
handle customer credit card purchases and other point-of-sale transactions, and
the company is dependent on third-party suppliers of such infrastructure
elements as, but not limited to, telecommunications services, electric power,
water and banking facilities. The company does not depend to any significant
degree on any single merchandise vendor or upon electronic transaction
processing with individual vendors for merchandise purchases. The company has
identified and initiated formal communications with key third parties to
determine the extent to which the company will be vulnerable to such parties'
failure to resolve their own year 2000 issues. The company has received
responses from approximately 41% of key suppliers contacted. As a follow-up, the
company plans to seek to determine whether the supplier is taking appropriate
steps to achieve year 2000 readiness and to be prepared to continue functioning
effectively as a supplier in accordance with the company's business needs. The
company is assessing its risks with respect to failure by third parties to be
year 2000 compliant and intends to seek to mitigate those risks. The company is
also developing contingency plans, discussed below, to address issues related to
suppliers the company determines are not making sufficient progress toward
becoming year 2000 compliant.

COSTS. The company estimates that its IT Systems and embedded chip equipment
will be year 2000 compliant by mid-1999. Aggregate costs for work related to
year 2000 efforts in fiscal 1998 and 1999 currently are anticipated to total
approximately $12.0 million, including about $6.0 million for capital
investments in IT Systems and embedded chip equipment, and are expected to be
funded through operating cash flows. Operating costs related to year 2000
compliance projects will be incurred over several quarters and will be expensed
as incurred. In 1998, the company incurred approximately $4.0 million in
expenses related to year 2000, with approximately $2.0 million expected in
fiscal 1999. Capital expenditures in 1998 totaled approximately $4.0 million
with approximately $2.0 million in capital expenditures expected in fiscal 1999.

The company's estimates of the costs of achieving year 2000 compliance and the
date by which year 2000 compliance will be achieved are based on management's
best estimates, which were derived using numerous assumptions about future
events including the continued availability of certain resources, third-party
modification plans and other factors. However, there can be no assurance that
these estimates will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially
from these estimates. Specific factors that might cause such material
differences include, but are not limited to, the availability and cost of
personnel trained in year 2000 remediation work, the ability to locate and
correct all relevant computer codes, the success achieved by the company's
suppliers in reaching year 2000 readiness, the timely availability of necessary
replacement items and similar uncertainties.

RISKS. The company expects to implement the changes necessary to address the
year 2000 issue for IT Systems and embedded chip equipment used within the
company. The company presently believes that, with modifications to existing
software, conversions to new software and appropriate remediation of embedded
chip equipment, the year 2000 issue with respect to the company's IT Systems and
embedded chip equipment is not reasonably likely to pose significant operational
problems for the company. However, if unforeseen difficulties arise or such
modifications, conversions and replacements are not completed timely, or if the
company's vendors' or suppliers' systems are not modified to become year 2000
compliant, the year 2000 issue may have a material impact on the results of
operations and financial condition of the company.

The company is presently unable to assess the likelihood that the company will
experience significant operational problems due to unresolved year 2000 problems
of third parties that do business with the company. Although the company has not
been put on notice that any known third-party problem will not be timely
resolved, the company has limited information and no assurance of additional
information concerning the year 2000 readiness of third parties. The resulting
risks to the company's business are very difficult to assess due to the large
number of variables involved. If third parties fail to achieve year 2000
compliance, year 2000 problems could have a material impact on the company's
operations. Similarly, there can be no assurance that the company can timely
mitigate its risks related to a supplier's failure to resolve its year 2000
issues. If such mitigation is not achievable, year 2000 problems could have a
material impact on the company's operations.

CONTINGENCY PLANS. The company presently believes that its most reasonably
likely worst-case year 2000 scenarios would relate to the possible failure in
one or more geographic regions of third-party systems over which the company has
no 



control and for which the company has no ready substitute, such as, but not
limited to, power and telecommunications services. For example, if such services
were to fail, it could be necessary for the company to temporarily close stores
in the affected geographic areas. The company has in place a business resumption
plan that addresses recovery from various kinds of disasters, including recovery
from significant interruptions to data flows and distribution capabilities at
the company's major data systems centers and major distribution centers. The
company is using that plan as a starting point for developing specific year 2000
contingency plans, which will generally emphasize locating alternate sources of
supply, methods of distribution and ways of processing information. The company
expects its year 2000 contingency plans will be substantially complete by the
end of the second quarter of fiscal year 1999. However, there can be no
assurance that the company will be able to complete its contingency planning on
that schedule.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE PERFORMANCE

This report includes a number of forward-looking statements which reflect the
company's current beliefs and estimates with respect to future events and the
company's future financial performance, operations and competitive strengths.
The words "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe" and similar expressions
identify forward-looking statements.

The company's continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to increase
sales at existing locations, to open new stores and to operate stores on a
profitable basis. There can be no assurance that the company's existing
strategies and store expansion program will result in a continuation of revenue
and profit growth. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially
impact revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict.

As a result, the forward-looking statements that are contained herein are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual
results to differ materially from historical results or current expectations.
These factors include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the
apparel industry, obtaining acceptable store locations, the company's ability to
continue to purchase attractive name-brand merchandise at desirable discounts,
successful implementation of the company's merchandise diversification strategy,
the company's ability to successfully extend its geographic reach, unseasonable
weather trends, changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences in
apparel or home-related merchandise and greater than planned costs, including
those that could be related to necessary modifications to or replacements of the
company's IT Systems and embedded chip equipment to enable them to process
information with dates or date ranges spanning the year 2000 and beyond. If
unforeseen difficulties arise or such modifications and replacements are not
completed timely, or if the company's vendors' or suppliers' IT Systems,
software and embedded chip equipment are not modified to become year 2000
compliant, the year 2000 issue may have a material impact on the operations of
the company. In addition, the company's corporate headquarters, one of its
distribution centers and 44% of its stores are located in California. Therefore,
a downturn in the California economy or a major natural disaster there could
significantly affect the company's operating results and financial condition.

In addition to the above factors, the apparel industry is highly seasonal. The
combined sales of the company for the third and fourth (holiday) fiscal quarters
are historically higher than the combined sales for the first two fiscal
quarters. The company has realized a significant portion of its profits in each
fiscal year during the fourth quarter. Intensified price competition, lower than
anticipated consumer demand or other factors, if they were to occur during the
third and fourth quarters, and in particular during the fourth quarter, could
adversely affect the company's fiscal year results.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Management believes that the market risk associated with the company's ownership
of market-risk sensitive financial instruments (including interest rate risk and
equity price risk) as of January 30, 1999 is not material.






ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS





     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY





     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.






                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS





      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The fiscal years ended January 30, 1999, January 31, 1998 and February 1, 1997
are referred to as 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

NOTE A: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BUSINESS. The company is an off-price retailer of first quality, branded
apparel, shoes and accessories, as well as gift items, linens and other
home-related merchandise for the entire family. At January 30, 1999, the company
operated 349 stores. The company's headquarters, one distribution center, two
warehouses and 44% of its stores are located in California.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION. The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of all subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and accounts have been
eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made in the 1997 and 1996
financial statements to conform to the 1998 presentation.

USE OF ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES. The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

CASH EQUIVALENTS. Cash equivalents are highly liquid, fixed income instruments
purchased with a maturity of three months or less.

MERCHANDISE INVENTORY. Merchandise inventory is stated at the lower of cost or
market determined under the unit cost method.

ADVERTISING.  Advertising costs are expensed when incurred.

DEFERRED RENT. Many of the company's leases signed since 1988 contain fixed
escalations of the minimum annual lease payments during the original term of the
lease. For these leases, the company recognizes rental expense on a
straight-line basis and records the difference between the average rental amount
charged to expense and the amount payable under the lease as deferred rent. At
the end of 1998 and 1997, the balance of deferred rent was $11.1 million and
$10.6 million, respectively, and is included in long-term liabilities.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Included in other assets are lease rights and interests,
consisting of payments made to acquire store leases, which are amortized over
the remaining applicable life of the lease. Also included in other assets is the
excess of cost over the acquired net assets, which is amortized on a
straight-line basis over a period of 40 years.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT. Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation
is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of
the asset, typically ranging from five to 12 years for equipment and 20 to 40
years for real property. The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over
the useful life of the asset or the applicable lease term, whichever is less.
Computer hardware and software costs are included in fixtures and equipment and
are amortized over their estimated useful life of five years.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable
intangibles, including goodwill, held and used by the company, are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the company's
review as of January 30, 1999 and January 31, 1998, no adjustments were
recognized to the carrying value of such assets.

ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. The carrying value of cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and long-term debt
approximates their estimated fair value.



STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION. The company accounts for stock-based awards to
employees using the intrinsic value method prescribed by "Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

TAXES ON EARNINGS. Income taxes are accounted for under an asset and liability
approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in
the company's financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax
consequences, the company generally considers all expected future events other
than changes in the tax law or rates.

STOCK DIVIDEND. All share and per share information has been adjusted to reflect
the effect of the company's two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend on March 5, 1997.

EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS). Basic EPS excludes dilution and is computed by
dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
options to issue common stock were exercised into common stock.

The following is a reconciliation of the number of shares (denominator) used in
the basic and diluted EPS computations (shares in thousands):





SEGMENT REPORTING. Effective February 1, 1998, Ross adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 (SFAS 131), "Disclosures about Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information." SFAS 131 establishes annual and
interim reporting standards for an enterprise's operating segments and related
disclosures about its products, services, geographic areas and major customers.
The company's operations include only activities related to the sale of apparel
and home accessories through similar stores throughout the United States and
therefore comprise only one segment.


NOTE B: LONG-TERM DEBT

The company had no outstanding debt at year-end 1998 and 1997. The weighted
average interest rates on borrowings during 1998, 1997 and 1996 were 5.8%, 5.8%
and 8.3%, respectively.

BANK CREDIT FACILITIES. The company has available under its principal credit
agreement a $160.0 million revolving credit facility and a $30.0 million credit
facility, the latter solely for the issuance of letters of credit, both of which
expire September 2002. Interest is payable upon borrowing maturity but no less
than quarterly. At year-end 1998 and 1997, the company had $15.6 million and
$16.6 million, respectively, in outstanding letters of credit. Borrowing under
the credit facilities is subject to the company's maintaining certain interest
rate coverage and leverage ratios. As of January 30, 1999, the company was in
compliance with these bank covenants.

In addition, the company has $45.0 million in uncommitted short-term bank lines
of credit. When utilized, interest is payable monthly under several pricing
options.



Included in accounts payable are checks outstanding in excess of cash balances
of approximately $44.1 million and $50.6 million at year-end 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The company can utilize its revolving line of credit to cover
payment of these checks as they clear the bank.


NOTE C: LEASES

In June 1998, the company purchased its Newark, California, distribution center
and corporate headquarters for $24.6 million with funding provided by cash
generated by operations and bank borrowings under the company's existing credit
agreement. In November 1998 and September 1997, the company entered into
five-year leases for two additional warehouses in Newark, California. In
February 1998 and August 1998, the company entered into two leases for
warehouses in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, with lease terms of three years and three
and a half years, respectively. These four leased facilities are being used to
store packaway merchandise. In addition, the company leases its store sites,
selected computer and related equipment, and distribution center equipment under
operating leases with original, noncancelable terms that in general range from
three to fifteen years, expiring through 2014. Store leases typically contain
provisions for three to four renewal options of five years each. Most store
leases also provide for minimum annual rentals, with provisions for additional
rent based on percentage of sales and for payment of certain expenses.

The aggregate future minimum annual lease payments under leases in effect at
year-end 1998 are as follows:





Total rent expense for all operating leases is as follows:









NOTE D: TAXES ON EARNINGS

The provision for taxes consists of the following:




In 1998, 1997 and 1996, the company realized tax benefits of $10.9 million,
$14.1 million and $14.0 million, respectively, related to stock options
exercised and the vesting of restricted stock that were credited to additional
paid-in capital.

The provisions for taxes for financial reporting purposes are different from the
tax provision computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate. The
differences are reconciled as follows:









The components of the net deferred tax assets at year-end are as follows:




NOTE E: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The company has available to certain employees a profit sharing retirement plan.
Under the plan, employee and company contributions and accumulated plan earnings
qualify for favorable tax treatment under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. In 1987, the company adopted an Incentive Compensation Program, which
provides cash awards to key management employees based on the company's and the
individual's performance. In 1991, the company began offering a Supplemental
Retirement Plan, which allows eligible employees to purchase annuity contracts.
In 1993, the company made available to management a Nonqualified Deferred
Compensation Plan which allows management to make payroll contributions on a
pre-tax basis in addition to the 401(k) Plan. This plan does not qualify under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.


NOTE F: STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

PREFERRED STOCK. The company has four million shares of preferred stock
authorized, with a par value of $.01 per share. No preferred stock has been
issued or outstanding during the past three years.

COMMON STOCK. The company's Board of Directors has approved repurchase programs
over the past several years that resulted in the buyback of 2.8 million shares
at an average price of $39.04 in 1998, 3.0 million shares at an average price of
$32.72 in 1997, and 4.5 million shares at an average price of $17.93 in 1996. In
January 1999, the company's Board of Directors authorized an expansion and
continuation of these repurchase programs for additional shares of the company's
common stock totaling up to $120.0 million.

DIVIDENDS. The company's Board of Directors declared dividends of $.065 per
common share in January 1999; $.055 per common share in January, May, August and
November 1998; and $.045 per common share in January, May, August and November
1997.




STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS. At January 30, 1999, the company had four
stock-based compensation plans which are described below. Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," establishes a fair value method of accounting for stock options
and other equity instruments. Had compensation cost for these stock option and
stock purchase plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates
for awards under those plans consistent with the methods of SFAS 123, the
company's net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the pro
forma amounts indicated below:



The impact of outstanding non-vested stock options granted prior to 1995 has
been excluded from the pro forma calculation; accordingly, the 1998, 1997 and
1996 pro forma adjustments are not indicative of future period pro forma
adjustments, when the calculation will apply to all applicable stock options.

1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN. The company's 1992 Stock Option Plan allows for the
granting of incentive and non-qualified stock options. Stock options are to be
granted at prices not less than the fair market value of the common shares on
the date the option is granted, expire ten years from the date of grant and
normally vest over a period not exceeding four years from the date of grant.
Options under the plan are exercisable upon grant, subject to the company's
conditional right to repurchase unvested shares.

OUTSIDE DIRECTORS STOCK OPTION PLAN. The company's Outside Directors Stock
Option Plan provides for the automatic grant of stock options at pre-established
times and for fixed numbers of shares to each non-employee director. Stock
options are to be granted at exercise prices not less than the fair market value
of the common shares on the date the option is granted, expire ten years from
the date of grant and normally vest over a period not exceeding three years from
the date of the grant.






     A summary of the activity under the company's two option plans for 1998,
1997 and 1996 is presented below:



At year-end 1998, 1997 and 1996, there were 2.9 million, 1.5 million and 2.3
million shares, respectively, available for future issuance under these plans.

The weighted average fair values per share of options granted during 1998, 1997
and 1996 were $12.42, $7.98 and $4.72, respectively. For determining pro forma
earnings per share, the fair values for each option granted were estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively: (i) dividend yield
of 0.6%, 0.6% and 0.8%; (ii) expected volatility of 45.8%, 43.0% and 43.8%;
(iii) risk-free interest rate of 5.2%, 6.2% and 5.9%; and (iv) expected life of
3.3 years, 3.3 years and 3.4 years. The company's calculations are based on a
multiple option approach, and forfeitures are recognized as they occur.





The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at January 30, 1999:





EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN. Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible
full-time employees can choose to have up to 10% of their annual base earnings
withheld to purchase the company's common stock. The purchase price of the stock
is 85% of the lower of the beginning of the offering period or end of the
offering period market price. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, employees purchased
approximately 75,000, 86,000 and 155,000 shares, respectively, of the company's
common stock under the plan at weighted average per-share prices of $30.89,
$21.79 and $8.89, respectively. Through January 30, 1999, approximately
1,598,000 shares had been issued under this plan and 402,000 shares remained
available for future issuance.

The weighted average fair values of the 1998, 1997 and 1996 awards were $12.53,
$8.20 and $6.72 per share, respectively. For determining pro forma earnings per
share, the fair value of the employees' purchase rights was estimated using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions for 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively: (i) dividend yield of 0.6%, 0.6% and 0.8%; (ii)
expected volatility of 49.3%, 43.1% and 48.1%; (iii) risk-free interest rate of
5.0%, 5.6% and 5.5%; and (iv) expected life of 1.0 year, 1.0 year and 1.0 year.





RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN. The company's Restricted Stock Plan provides for stock
awards to officers and certain key employees. All awards under the plan entitle
the participant to full dividend and voting rights. Unvested shares are
restricted as to disposition and subject to forfeiture under certain
circumstances. The market value of these shares at date of grant is amortized to
expense ratably over the vesting period of generally two to five years. At
year-end 1998, 1997 and 1996, the unamortized compensation expense was $15.3
million, $9.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively. A summary of restricted
stock award activity follows:




NOTE G: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The company is party to various legal proceedings arising from normal business
activities. In the opinion of management, resolution of these matters will not
have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition or results
of operations.






NOTE H: QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)






1    Includes $.055 per share dividend declared November 1998 and $.065 per
     share dividend declared January 1999.
2    Ross Stores, Inc. common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market tier of
     The Nasdaq Stock Market-SM- under the symbol ROST.
3    Includes $.045 per share dividend declared November 1997 and $.055 per
     share dividend declared January 1998.






INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



Board of Directors and Stockholders
Ross Stores, Inc.
Newark, California



     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ross
Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 30, 1999 and January
31, 1998, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January
30, 1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the company as of January 30,
1999 and January 31, 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended January 30, 1999 in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE L.L.P.
San Francisco, California
March 12, 1999









ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections entitled (i) "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of
Part I of this report; (ii) "Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent
Directors" of the Ross Stores, Inc. Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on Thursday, May 27, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement"); and
(iii) "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy
Statement.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled (i) "Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation"; (ii) "Compensation of Directors"; (iii)
"Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment and Change-in-Control
Arrangements"; and (iv) the following tables, and their footnotes: Summary
Compensation, Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year and Aggregated Option Exercises
and Year-End Values.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management".


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled (i) "Compensation of Directors"
and (ii) "Certain Transactions".




                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The following financial statements, schedules and exhibits are filed
          as part of this report or are incorporated herein as indicated:

          1.   List of Financial Statements.

                    The following consolidated financial statements included
herein as Item 8:

               Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 30, 1999 and January 31,
                    1998.

               Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended January
                    30, 1999, January 31, 1998 and February 1, 1997.

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
                    ended January 30, 1999, January 31, 1998, and February 1,
                    1997.

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January
                    30, 1999, January 31, 1998 and February 1, 1997.

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Independent Auditors'
               Report.

          2.   List of Financial Statement Schedules.

               Schedules are omitted because they are not required, not
               applicable, or shown in the financial statements or notes thereto
               which are contained in this Report.

          3.   List of Exhibits (in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).

               Incorporated herein by reference to the list of Exhibits
               contained in the Exhibit Index which begins on page 35 of this
               Report.

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

          None.




                                   SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                  ROSS STORES, INC.
                                  ----------------------------
                                  (Registrant)


         Date:  April 28, 1999    By: /s/Michael Balmuth
                                      Michael Balmuth
                                      Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS


















