Item 1. Business.

Eaton Corporation plc (Eaton or the Company) is a power management company with2014net sales of$22.6 billion. The Company provides energy-efficient solutions that help its customers effectively manage electrical, hydraulic and mechanical power more efficiently, safely and sustainably. Eaton has approximately102,000employees inover 60countries and sells products to customers in more than175countries.

Eaton electronically files or furnishes reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy and information statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. As soon as reasonably practicable, these reports are available free of charge through the Company's Internet website at http://www.eaton.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's Internet website at http://www.sec.gov.

Acquisitions and Sales of Businesses

Cooper Industries plc

OnNovember 30, 2012, Eaton Corporation acquired Cooper Industries plc (Cooper) for a purchase price totaling$13,192 million, which consisted of cash totaling$6,543 millionand Eaton share consideration valued at$6,649 million.

Cooper was a diversified global manufacturer of electrical products and systems, with brands including Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. Cooper had annual sales of$5,409 millionfor 2011. Eaton's Consolidated Financial Statements include Cooper's results of operations fromNovember 30, 2012. For segment reporting purposes, Cooper has been included within the Electrical Products and the Electrical Systems and Services business segments. Additional information related to the acquisition of Cooper and business segments is presented in Note 2 and Note 14, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisitions of Other Businesses

Eaton's other acquired businesses for2012are presented in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sale of Aerospace Power Distribution Management Solutions and Integrated Cockpit Solutions

On May 9, 2014, Eaton sold the Aerospace Power Distribution Management Solutions and Integrated Cockpit Solutions businesses to Safran for$270, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of$154.

Sale of Apex Tool Group, LLC

In July 2010, Cooper formed a joint venture, named Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex), with Danaher Corporation (Danaher). On February 1, 2013, Cooper and Danaher sold Apex to Bain Capital for approximately$1.6 billion, subject to post-closing adjustments.

Business Segment Information

Information by business segment and geographic region regarding principal products, principal markets, methods of distribution, net sales, operating profit and assets is presented in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding Eaton's segments and business is presented below.

Electrical Products and Electrical Systems and Services

Principal methods of competition in these segments are performance of products and systems, technology, customer service and support, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in these segments and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In normal economic cycles, sales of these segments are historically lower in the first quarter and higher in the third and fourth quarters of a year. In2014, 18% of these segments' sales were made to four large distributors of electrical products and electrical systems and services.









Hydraulics

Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, geographic coverage, service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. Sales of this segment are historically higher in the first and second quarters and lower in the third and fourth quarters of the year. In2014, 12% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers or distributors of agricultural, construction, and industrial equipment and parts.

Aerospace

Principal methods of competition in this segment are total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, design engineering capabilities, and timely delivery. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products and platforms, is considered among the market leaders. In2014, 30% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of aircraft.

Vehicle

Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In2014, 57% of this segment's sales were made to seven large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles and related components.

Information Concerning Eaton's Business in General

Raw Materials

Eaton's major requirements for raw materials include iron, steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, brass, tin, silver, lead, molybdenum, titanium, vanadium, rubber, plastic, electronic components, insulating materials and fluids. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as extrusions, castings, powder metal, metal sheets and strips, forging billets, bar stock, and plastic pellets. Raw materials, as well as parts and other components, are purchased from many suppliers, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and insulating fluids. Under normal circumstances, the Company has no difficulty obtaining its raw materials. In2014, Eaton maintained appropriate levels of inventory to prevent shortages and did not experience any availability constraints.

Patents and Trademarks

Eaton considers its intellectual property, including patents, trade names and trademarks, to be of significant value to its business as a whole. The Company's products are manufactured, marketed and sold under a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, some of which expire or are allowed to lapse at various dates in the future. Eaton develops and acquires new intellectual property on an ongoing basis and considers all of its intellectual property to be valuable. Based on the broad scope of the Company's product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on Eaton's consolidated financial statements or its business segments. The Company's policy is to file applications and obtain patents for the great majority of its novel and innovative new products including product modifications and improvements.

Order Backlog

A significant portion of open orders placed with Eaton are by original equipment manufacturers or distributors. These open orders are not considered firm as they have been historically subject to month-to-month releases by customers. In measuring backlog orders, only the amount of orders to which customers are firmly committed are included. Using this criterion, total backlog atDecember 31, 2014and2013was approximately $4.4 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. Backlog should not be relied upon as being indicative of results of operations for future periods.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses for new products and improvement of existing products in2014,2013and2012were$647 million,$644 million, and$439 million, respectively. Over the past five years, the Company has invested approximately $2.6 billion in research and development.









Environmental Contingencies

Operations of the Company involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws. Eaton continues to modify processes on an ongoing, regular basis in order to reduce the impact on the environment, including the reduction or elimination of certain chemicals used in, and wastes generated from, operations. Compliance with laws that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, are not expected to have a material adverse effect upon earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Eaton's estimated capital expenditures for environmental control facilities are not expected to be material for2015and2016. Information regarding the Company's liabilities related to environmental matters is presented in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





