Item 1. Business.

Eaton Corporation plc (Eaton or Company) was incorporated under the laws of Ireland on May 10, 2012, and became the successor registrant to Eaton Corporation onNovember 30, 2012, in connection with the consummation of the acquisition of Cooper Industries plc (Cooper), which is further described below. Eaton is a diversified power management company providing energy-efficient solutions that help its customers effectively manage electrical, hydraulic and mechanical power. The Company is a global technology leader in electrical products, systems and services for power quality, distribution and control, power transmission, lighting and wiring products; hydraulics components, systems and services for industrial and mobile equipment; aerospace fuel, hydraulics and pneumatic systems for commercial and military use; and truck and automotive drivetrain and powertrain systems for performance, fuel economy and safety. Eaton has approximately103,000employees inover 50countries and sells products to customers in175countries.

Eaton electronically files or furnishes reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy and information statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. As soon as reasonably practicable, these reports are available free of charge through the Company's Internet website at http://www.eaton.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's Internet website at http://www.sec.gov.

Acquisitions and Sale of Businesses

Cooper Industries plc

OnNovember 30, 2012, Eaton Corporation acquired Cooper for a purchase price totaling$13,192 million, which consisted of cash totaling$6,543 millionand Eaton share consideration valued at$6,649 million.

Cooper is a diversified global manufacturer of electrical products and systems, with brands including Bussmann electrical and electronic fuses; Crouse-Hinds and CEAG explosion-proof electrical equipment; Halo and Metalux lighting fixtures; and Kyle and McGraw-Edison power systems products. Cooper had annual sales of$5,409 millionfor 2011. Eaton's Consolidated Financial Statements include Cooper's results of operations fromNovember 30, 2012throughDecember 31, 2012. For segment reporting purposes, Cooper has been identified as a segment atDecember 31, 2012. Additional information related to the acquisition of Cooper and business segments is presented in Note 2 and Note 14, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Eaton's management believes the acquisition of Cooper will provide substantial synergies including, but not limited to, enhanced operational cost efficiencies, incremental revenue opportunities, the acceleration of Eaton’s long-term growth potential through greater exposure to faster growing end markets, increased earnings and cash flow and better access to capital markets as a result of enhanced size and an expanded business line.

Acquisitions of Other Businesses

In2012, Eaton acquired other businesses in separate transactions for combined net cash purchase prices totaling$604 million. The Consolidated Statements of Income include the results of these businesses from the dates of the transactions. These acquisitions of other businesses and the related annual sales prior to acquisition are summarized below:

Acquired businessesDate oftransactionBusinesssegmentAnnual sales(in millions)Rolec Comercial e Industrial S.A.September 28,2012ElectricalAmericas$85 for the12 monthsendedSeptember 30,2012A Chilean manufacturer of integrated power assemblies and low- and medium-voltage switchgear, and a provider of engineering services serving mining and other heavy industrial applications in Chile and Peru.Jeil Hydraulics Co., Ltd.July 6,2012Hydraulics$189 for 2011A Korean manufacturer of track drive motors, swing drive motors, main control valves and remote control valves for the construction equipment market.









Acquired businessesDate oftransactionBusinesssegmentAnnual sales(in millions)Polimer Kaucuk Sanayi ve Pazarlama A.S.June 1,2012Hydraulics$335 for 2011A Turkish manufacturer of hydraulic and industrial hose for construction, mining, agriculture, oil and gas, manufacturing, food and beverage, and chemicals markets. This business sells its products under the SEL brand name.Gycom Electrical Low-Voltage Power Distribution, Control and AutomationJune 1,2012ElectricalRest of World$24 for 2011A Swedish electrical low-voltage power distribution, control and automation components business.

Eaton's acquired businesses and joint venture entered into for2011and2010are presented in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sale of Apex Tool Group, LLC

In July 2010, Cooper formed a joint venture, named Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex), with Danaher Corporation (Danaher). Apex was formed by combining Cooper’s tools business with certain tools businesses from Danaher’s Tools and Components segment. Cooper and Danaher each owned a50%interest in the joint venture, had equal representation on its board of directors and had a50%voting interest in the joint venture.

On October 10, 2012, Cooper and Danaher announced they had entered into a definitive agreement to sell Apex to Bain Capital for approximately$1.6 billionsubject to post-closing adjustments. OnFebruary 1, 2013, the sale of Apex was completed.

Business Segment Information

Information by business segment and geographic region regarding principal products, principal markets, methods of distribution, net sales, operating profit and assets is presented in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding Eaton's segments and business is presented below.

Electrical Americas and Electrical Rest of World

Principal methods of competition in these segments are performance of products and systems, technology, customer service and support, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in these segments and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In normal economic cycles, sales of these segments are historically lower in the first quarter and higher in the third and fourth quarters of a year. In2012, one large distributor of electrical products represented 12% of the sales of the Electrical Americas segment.

Cooper

As a result of the acquisition of Cooper, Eaton now has a strong competitive position in this segment's markets and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance,  customer and end-user service, quality, brand name, and availability. In normal economic cycles, sales of this segment follow general economic conditions and are generally sensitive to activity in the commercial and residential construction markets, industrial production levels, electronic component production and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements.

Hydraulics

Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, geographic coverage, service, and cost competitiveness. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. Sales of this segment are historically higher in the first and second quarters and lower in the third and fourth quarters of the year. In2012, 10% of this segment's sales were made to two large manufacturers or distributors of agricultural, construction and industrial equipment and parts.

Aerospace

Principal methods of competition in this segment are total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, design engineering capabilities, and timely delivery. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products and platforms, is considered among the market leaders. In2012, 19% of this segment's sales were made to two large manufacturers of aircraft.









Truck

Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, global service, and cost competitiveness. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In2012, 72% of this segment's sales were made to five large manufacturers of heavy-, medium-, and light-duty trucks and off-highway vehicles.

Automotive

Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, global service, and cost competitiveness. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. Sales of this segment historically are slightly lower in the third quarter of the year as a result of the normal seasonal pattern of automotive industry production. In2012, 61% of this segment's sales were made to six large manufacturers of vehicles and related components.

Information Concerning Eaton's Business in General

Raw Materials

Eaton's major requirements for raw materials include iron, steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, aluminum ingots, brass, tin, silver, lead, molybdenum, titanium, vanadium, rubber, plastic, electronic components, and insulating materials and fluids. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as extrusions, castings, powder metal, metal sheets and strips, forging billets, bar stock and plastic pellets. Raw materials, as well as parts and other components, are purchased from many suppliers, although there are limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and insulating fluids. Under normal circumstances, the Company has no difficulty obtaining its raw materials. In2012, Eaton maintained appropriate levels of inventory to prevent shortages and did not experience any availability constraints.

Patents and Trademarks

Eaton considers its tradenames and trademarks to be of significant value to its business as a whole. The Company's products are marketed under a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses or other forms of intellectual property that expire at various dates in the future. Eaton develops and acquires new intellectual property on an ongoing basis and considers all of its intellectual property to be valuable. Based on the broad scope of the Company's product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on Eaton's consolidated financial statements or its business segments. The Company's policy is to file applications and obtain patents for the great majority of its novel and innovative new products including product modifications and improvements.

Order Backlog

Since a significant portion of open orders placed with Eaton by original equipment manufacturers of trucks, off-highway vehicles and passenger cars are historically subject to month-to-month releases by customers during each model year, these orders are not considered firm. In measuring backlog orders, only the amount of orders to which customers are firmly committed are included. Using this criterion, total backlog atDecember 31, 2012and2011was approximately $4.5 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. Backlog should not be relied upon as being indicative of results of operations for future periods.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses for new products and improvement of existing products in2012,2011and2010were$439 million,$417 millionand$425 million, respectively. Over the past five years, the Company has invested approximately $2.1 billion in research and development.

Environmental Contingencies

Operations of the Company involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws. Eaton continues to modify processes on an ongoing, regular basis in order to reduce the impact on the environment, including the reduction or elimination of certain chemicals used in, and wastes generated from, operations. Compliance with laws that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, are not expected to have a material adverse effect upon earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Eaton's estimated capital expenditures for environmental control facilities are not expected to be material for2013and2014. Information regarding the Company's liabilities related to environmental matters is presented in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.













