Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its subsidiaries and their respective operations. References to the acquisition of GPI refer to ourJanuary 2, 2014acquisition of General Parts International, Inc. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year. Our Fiscal 2015 included 52 weeks of operations, while Fiscal 2014 included 53 weeks of operations.  Our last 53-week year prior to 2014 was in 2008.



Overview



We are a leading  automotive aftermarket parts provider in North America, serving "do-it-for-me", or Commercial, and "do-it-yourself", or DIY, customers as well as independently-owned operators. Our stores and branches offer a broad selection of brand name, original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light and heavy duty trucks.



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we began targeting the sale of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. We began our Commercial delivery program in 1996 and have steadily increased our sales to Commercial customers since 2000. We have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc.



Our most recent strategic acquisition was onJanuary 2, 2014when we acquired GPI. GPI, formerly a privately held company, was a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for Commercial markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac names. As of the acquisition date, GPI operated1,233Carquest stores and103Worldpac branches located in45states and Canada and serviced approximately1,400independently-owned Carquest stores. The acquisition allowed us to expand our geographic presence, Commercial capabilities and overall scale to better serve our customers. As ofJanuary 2, 2016, the end of our2015fiscal year, or2015, we operated5,171total stores and122branches primarily under the trade names "Advance Auto Parts", "Autopart International", "Carquest" and "Worldpac".



Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our 2015 fiscal year. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating Segments



During2015we operated as a single reportable segment comprised of our store and branch operations. A discussion of our segment structure and disclosure of sales by product category is available in Note 19,Segment and Related Information,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15,Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Store Names



Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our Commercial and DIY customers through a variety of channels ranging from traditional "brick and mortar" store locations to self-service e-commerce sites. We believe we are better able to meet our customers' needs by operating under several store names.



Advance Auto Parts- Consists of4,102stores as ofJanuary 2, 2016generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on both Commercial and DIY customers. The average size of an Advance store is approximately7,500square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,000to8,500square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles. Our Advance Auto Parts stores carry a product offering of approximately22,000stock keeping units, or SKUs, generally









consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store's respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores is an additional15,000less common SKUs that are available in many of our larger stores, known as HUB stores. These additional SKUs are available on a same-day or next-day basis.



Carquest- Consists of873stores as ofJanuary 2, 2016generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on Commercial customers, but also serving DIY customers. The average size of a Carquest store is approximately7,400square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving the aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles with a product offering of approximately23,000SKUs. We have already begun our integration plan to fully convert or consolidate the Carquest stores with our Advance Auto Parts stores over the next few years. As ofJanuary 2, 2016, Carquest also served approximately1,300independently-owned stores which operate under the Carquest name.



As ofJanuary 2, 2016, we also operated12stores under the Carquest name that were acquired as part of the acquisition of B.W.P. Distributors, Inc. ("BWP") on December 31, 2012. These locations are expected to be converted or consolidated with our Advance Auto Parts stores in 2016.



Worldpac- Consists of122branches as ofJanuary 2, 2016that principally serve Commercial customers utilizing an efficient and sophisticated on-line ordering and fulfillment system. The Worldpac branches are generally larger than our other store locations averaging approximately 27,000 square feet in size. Worldpac specializes in imported, OEM parts. Worldpac's complete product offering includes over100,000SKUs for over 40 import and domestic vehicle carlines.



Autopart International("AI")- Consists of184stores as ofJanuary 2, 2016operating primarily in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States focusing on the Commercial customer. These stores specialize in imported aftermarket and private label branded auto parts. The AI stores offer approximately39,000SKUs through routine replenishment from its supply chain.



We acquired the Carquest and Worldpac operations as part of our acquisition of GPI onJanuary 2, 2014. Our multi-year integration plan remains underway which is focused on the integration of the Advance Auto Part and Carquest operations. Since the acquisition, we have consolidated or converted nearly 350 Carquest stores, completed support center consolidations, integrated our field teams, harmonized pricing and brands and substantially completed product changeovers. In addition, we have been able to utilize cross-sourcing of inventory between most of our enterprise-wide locations to expand availability and the breadth of our product offerings to better meet the needs of our customers.



Through our integrated operating approach, we also serve our customers online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com and www.Worldpac.com.  Our Commercial customers, consisting primarily of delivery customers for whom we deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, can conveniently place their orders online through these websites. Our online websites also allow our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them.



We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket industry by fulfilling our promise through our Superior Availability and Outstanding Customer Service priorities.  We offer our customers quality products which are covered by a solid warranty. Many of our products are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality.



The primary categories of products we offer include:



•Parts, including alternators, batteries, belts and hoses, brakes and brake pads, chassis parts, climate control parts, clutches, driveshafts, engines and engine parts, ignition parts, lighting, radiators, starters, spark plugs and wires, steering and alignment parts, transmissions, water pumps and windshield wiper blades;

•Accessories, including air fresheners, automotive paint, anti-theft devices, emergency road kits, floor mats, ice scrapers, mirrors, seat and steering wheel covers, and vent shades;

•Chemicals, including antifreeze, brake and power steering fluid, car washes and waxes, freon, fuel additives, and windshield washer fluid;

•Oil,transmission fluid and other automotive petroleum products; and

•Other miscellaneous offerings, including certain eServices.











Our Customers



We serve both Commercial and DIY customers. Our Commercial customers consist primarily of delivery customers for whom we use our commercial delivery fleet to deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, including garages, service stations and auto dealers. We also serve approximately1,300independently-owned Carquest stores with shipments directly from our distribution centers. Our DIY customers are primarily served through our stores and can also order online to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them.



A majority of our stores include at least two parts professionals, or parts pros, who have extensive technical knowledge of automotive replacement parts and other related applications to better serve our Commercial and DIY customers. Many of our stores also include bilingual Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all of our Team Members, including formal classroom workshops, e-learning and certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE. ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry.



Our Commercial sales represented approximately57%of our sales in 2015 and 2014. Since 2008, we have concentrated a significant amount of our investments on increasing our Commercial sales at a faster rate in light of favorable market dynamics. We have added key product brands in our stores that are well recognized by our Commercial customers and have increased the number of parts professionals, delivery vehicles and other support services to serve those customers. Our acquisition of GPI in early 2014 significantly increased our market penetration and Commercial capabilities due to GPI’s concentration in the Commercial market. We believe these investments and the commitment to consistent delivery times and order accuracy will enable us to gain more Commercial customers as well as increase our sales to existing customers who will use us as their “first call” supplier.

While Commercial is our growth engine, DIY customers remain a sizable portion of our business and we remain focused on continuing to deliver on our value proposition to our core DIY customers as well. Store Team Members utilize our point-of-sale ("POS") system, including a fully integrated electronic parts catalog ("EPC"), to identify and suggest the appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the related products, tools or additional information that is required by our DIY customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and safely. Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services in our stores free of charge to our customers including:



•Battery and wiper installation;

•Battery charging;

•Check engine light reading;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” video clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool programs.



Store Development



Our store development program has historically focused on adding new stores and branches within existing markets where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores and entering new markets. The addition of new locations, along with strategic acquisitions, has played a significant role in our growth and success. We believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to our Commercial and DIY customers, will continue to play a significant role in our future growth and success.



We open and operate stores in both large, densely-populated markets and small, less densely-populated areas. We complete substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, traffic count, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors' stores and the cost of real estate.











Our5,293stores and branches were located in the following states, territories and international locations as ofJanuary 2, 2016:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresU.S. States:Alabama149Louisiana84Ohio265Alaska11Maine41Oklahoma30Arizona18Maryland133Oregon27Arkansas24Massachusetts127Pennsylvania266California91Michigan159Rhode Island22Colorado96Minnesota50South Carolina154Connecticut77Mississippi68South Dakota12District of Columbia1Missouri67Tennessee158Delaware17Montana27Texas247Florida537Nebraska35Utah20Georgia283Nevada15Vermont12Idaho8New Hampshire30Virginia248Illinois191New Jersey128Washington31Indiana123New Mexico12West Virginia79Iowa44New York265Wisconsin117Kansas41North Carolina329Wyoming13Kentucky118North Dakota6U.S. Territories:Puerto Rico28Virgin Islands1Canadian Provinces:Alberta3New Brunswick10Ontario61British Columbia4Newfoundland and Labrador3Prince Edward Island1Manitoba1Nova Scotia12Quebec63



The following table sets forth information concerning changes in the total number of our stores and branches during the past five years:

20152014201320122011Beginning Stores5,3724,0493,7943,6623,563Stores Acquired(1)—1,336124——New Stores(2)121151172137104Stores Closed(3)(200)(164)(41)(5)(5)Ending Stores5,2935,3724,0493,7943,662



(1)Includes 1,336 stores and branches resulting from our acquisition of GPI on January 2, 2014 and 124 stores resulting from our acquisition of BWP on December 31, 2012.

(2)Does not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of stores.

(3)The number of store closures in 2015, 2014 and 2013 includes planned consolidations of 111, 145 and 20, respectively, of Carquest, AI and BWP stores.











Store Technology



Our stores utilize operating systems comprised of an integrated POS and EPC, which enable our store Team Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on the year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. Currently we operate separate legacy store systems for Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores. In conjunction with our integration of the Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores, we plan to begin testing a single POS and EPC that leverages the benefits of each system during 2016.



Currently, information maintained by our Advance Auto Parts store operating system is used to formulate pricing, marketing and merchandising strategies and to replenish inventory accurately and rapidly. It also provides real-time inventory tracking at the store level allowing store Team Members to check the quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items for store specific events, automatically process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and track merchandise transfers. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available at one of our Advance Auto Parts stores, the store system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock through our supply chain network, or can be ordered directly from one of our vendors. Available parts and accessories are then ordered electronically with immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery time.



The Worldpac speedDIAL®parts catalog and fulfillment ordering system provides expanded capabilities to Worldpac's Commercial customers and other stores throughout our enterprise. This tool allows customers to check real-time parts availability on over 110,000 parts, view images on over 85,000 parts, check prices, place orders, view invoices and self-service returns.



Store Support Centers



We serve our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores primarily from our store support centers in Roanoke, VA and Raleigh, NC. We also maintain a store support center in Newark, CA to support our Worldpac and e-commerce operations and in Norton, MA to support our Autopart International stores.



Merchandising.In2015, we purchased merchandise from over500vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than7%of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and volume.



Our merchandising teams have developed strong vendor relationships in the industry and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilize a category management process where we manage the mix of our product offerings to meet customer demand. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory productivity.



Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories which we believe will appeal to our Commercial customers and also generate DIY customer traffic. Since our acquisition of GPI, we have rolled out cross-sourcing capabilities to the majority of our stores and have substantially completed the integration of our product offerings in our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores. Some of our brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Denso®, Gates®, Moog®, Monroe®, NGK®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Autopart International®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®as well as the Carquest®brand acquired from GPI.



Supply Chain.Our supply chain consists of a network of distribution centers, HUBs, stores and branches which enable us to provide same-day or next-day availability to our customers. Our inventory management teams utilize replenishment systems to monitor inventory levels across the network and order additional product when appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment systems utilize the most up-to-date information from our POS systems as well as inventory movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality (and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. These factors are combined with service level goals, vendor lead times and cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase orders. The vast majority of our purchase orders are sent to our merchandise vendors via electronic data interchange.



The acquisition of GPI in 2014 significantly increased the number of distribution centers that we operate.  As ofJanuary 2, 2016, we operated50distribution centers. The34distribution centers serving Carquest stores are significantly smaller at an average of125,000square feet than our existing Advance Auto Parts distribution centers which average approximately500,000









square feet. We have recently begun the integration of the Advance Auto and Carquest supply chains in addition to optimization work throughout our entire supply chain. In 2016, we plan to close one distribution center in Sutton, MA and open one new Worldpac distribution center in the greater Dallas, TX area. We have also announced our plans to open a new distribution center in the greater Nashville, TN area in 2017.



In 2015, we implemented technology that has furthered our ability to roll out daily replenishment to the stores served by our Advance Auto Parts distribution centers. We will continue to expand our daily replenishment capabilities to our other distributions centers, while also leveraging our in-market HUB stores to further increase the speed and efficient utilization of our distribution network. Worldpac will continue to provide cross-sourcing to our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores.



Marketing & Advertising.Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness, consideration and omni-channel traffic by positioning Advance Auto Parts as the leader in parts availability and project support within the aftermarket auto parts category. We strive to exceed our customers' expectations end to end through a comprehensive online experience, extensive parts assortment, speed at the parts counter and our DIY customer loyalty program, Speed Perks.



The current campaign was developed based on extensive research with our customers. The campaign targets core DIY customers and emphasizes our understanding of what motivates their passion to work on cars. It is built around a multi-channel communications plan which brings together radio, television, direct marketing, mobile and social media and in-store and event signage directed to both our general market and Hispanic and Latino customers.

We also have Commercial programs that are designed to build loyalty with our Commercial customers who rely on us for quality products and services each and every day so they can in turn successfully serve their customers. In addition to various loyalty and rebate programs, we offer dedicated training support and other eServices to our Commercial customers, including:



TECH-NET Professional Auto Service®- is our marketing solutions program offered to the commercial shop owner to help them attract and retain customers by having consistent branding, banner programs and solutions for attracting automotive technicians and other technical resources.



CARQUEST Technical Institute®(CTI)- offers our valued customers the tools and training to stay ahead of an increasingly competitive and fast-changing marketplace. We target service facility owners, shop managers, service consultants and professional technicians. CTI instructors have over 350 ASE certifications and understand the technical skills required to be productive and profitable and reach over 25,000 technicians annually.

MotoShop- is a technology solution portfolio consisting of a suite of electronic tools that supports our Commercial customers with: (i) online marketing solutions, (ii) fully searchable diagnostic and repair service resources, (iii) online shop tech training and (iv) a shop management system.

Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate. Our fourth quarter is generally our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs typically influence our Commercial and DIY sales.



Team Members



As ofFebruary 26, 2016, we employed approximately40,000full-time Team Members and approximately33,000part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of86%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,10%employed in distribution and4%employed in our corporate offices. As ofFebruary 26, 2016, less than 1% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We have never experienced any labor disruption. We believe that our Team Member relations are solid.











Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service marks and trademarks, including "Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “Carquest", “CARQUEST Technical Institute”, “DriverSide”, “MotoLogic”,  “MotoShop”, “Worldpac”, “speedDIAL” and “TECH-NET Professional Auto Service” for use in connection with the automotive parts business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks and we actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We operate in both the Commercial and DIY markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., NAPA, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack and Auto Plus (formerly Uni-Select USA, Inc.), (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (iv) independently-owned stores, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based retailers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.



Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible.  Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.













