Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its predecessor, its subsidiaries and their respective operations. References to the acquisition of GPI refer to ourJanuary 2, 2014acquisition of General Parts International, Inc. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year. Fiscal 2014 included 53 weeks of operations.  Our last 53-week year prior to 2014 was in 2008.



Overview



We are the largest  automotive aftermarket parts provider in North America, serving "do-it-for-me", or Commercial, and "do-it-yourself", or DIY, customers as well as independently-owned operators. Our stores and branches offer a broad selection of brand name, original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light and heavy duty trucks.



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we began targeting the sale of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. We began our Commercial delivery program in 1996 and have steadily increased our sales to Commercial customers since 2000. We have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc.



Our most recent strategic acquisition was onJanuary 2, 2014when we acquired GPI. GPI, formerly a privately held company, is a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for Commercial markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac names. As of the acquisition date, GPI operated1,233Carquest stores and103Worldpac branches located in45states and Canada and serviced approximately1,400independently-owned Carquest stores. We believe the acquisition will allow us to expand our geographic presence, Commercial capabilities and overall scale to better serve our customers. As ofJanuary 3, 2015, the end of our2014fiscal year, or2014, we operated5,261total stores and111distribution branches primarily under the trade names "Advance Auto Parts", "Autopart International", "Carquest" and "Worldpac".



Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating Segments



During2014we operated as a single reportable segment comprised of our stores and distribution branch operations. A discussion of our segment structure and disclosure of sales by product category is available in Note 21,Segment and Related Information,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15,Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Store Names



Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our Commercial and DIY customers through a variety of channels ranging from traditional "brick and mortar" store locations to self-serving e-commerce sites. We believe we are better able to meet our customers' needs by operating under several store names.



Advance Auto Parts- Consists of3,888stores as ofJanuary 3, 2015generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on both Commercial and DIY customers. The average size of an Advance store is approximately7,600square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,000to8,500square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles. Our Advance Auto Parts stores carry a product offering of approximately20,000stock keeping units, or SKUs, generally consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store's respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand









at our stores, we have405larger stores, known as HUB stores, which stock an additional15,000less common SKUs that are available to our stores within the HUB store's service areas on a same-day or next-day basis.



Carquest- Consists of1,125stores as ofJanuary 3, 2015generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on the Commercial customer, but also serving the DIY customer. The average size of a Carquest store is approximately7,500square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving the aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles with a product offering of approximately19,000SKUs. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, we have16HUB stores providing additional SKUs on a same-day or next-day basis. We have already begun our integration plan to fully convert or consolidate the Carquest stores with our Advance Auto Parts stores over the next few years and are in the process of completing product conversions to align the product offering between our Carquest and Advance Auto Parts stores.  As ofJanuary 3, 2015, Carquest also served approximately 1,325 independently-owned stores which operate under the Carquest name.



As ofJanuary 3, 2015, we also operated38stores under the Carquest name that were acquired as part of the acquisition of B.W.P. Distributors, Inc. ("BWP") on December 31, 2012. These locations are expected to be converted or consolidated with our Advance Auto Parts stores over the next few years.



Worldpac- Consists of111branches as ofJanuary 3, 2015that principally serve Commercial customers utilizing an efficient and sophisticated delivery process. The Worldpac branches are generally larger than our other store locations averaging approximately 30,000 square feet in size. Worldpac specializes in imported, OEM parts. Worldpac's complete product offering includes over120,000SKUs for over 40 import and domestic vehicle carlines.



Autopart International- Consists of210stores as ofJanuary 3, 2015operating primarily in the Northeastern, Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern regions of the United States focusing on the Commercial customer. These stores specialize in imported aftermarket and private label branded auto parts. The AI stores offer approximately33,000SKUs through routine replenishment from its supply chain.



We acquired the Carquest and Worldpac operations as part of our acquisition of GPI onJanuary 2, 2014. We have plans to fully integrate the Carquest company-operated stores and overall operations into Advance Auto Parts over the next few years and to integrate the availability of all of our product offerings throughout the entire chain. In the short-term, we have been able to utilize cross-sourcing of inventory between most of our locations to expand availability and the breadth of our product offerings to better meet the needs of our customers.



Through our integrated operating approach, we also serve our customers online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com, www.Carquest.com and www.Worldpac.com.  Our Commercial customers, consisting primarily of delivery customers for whom we deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, can conveniently place their orders online through these websites. Our online websites also allow our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to their homes.



We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket industry by fulfilling our promise, 'Service is our best part®', through our Superior Availability and Service Leadership strategies.  We offer our customers quality products which are covered by a solid warranty. Many of our products are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality.



The primary categories of products we offer include:



•Parts, including alternators, batteries, belts and hoses, brakes and brake pads, chassis parts, climate control parts, clutches, driveshafts, engines and engine parts, ignition parts, lighting, radiators, starters, spark plugs and wires, steering and alignment parts, transmissions, water pumps and windshield wiper blades;

•Accessories, including air fresheners, automotive paint, anti-theft devices, emergency road kits, floor mats, ice scrapers, mirrors, seat and steering wheel covers, and vent shades;

•Chemicals, including antifreeze, brake and power steering fluid, car washes and waxes, freon, fuel additives, and windshield washer fluid;

•Oil,transmission fluid and other automotive petroleum products; and

•Other miscellaneous offerings, including certain eServices.



The product in our store locations is generally arranged in a uniform and consistent manner based on standard store formats and merchandise presentation. The parts inventory is generally located on shelves behind the customer service counter with the remaining product, or front room merchandise, arranged on the sales floor to provide easy customer access, maximize selling









space and prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to customers. We utilize aisle displays to feature high-demand or seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials, including bilingual signage based on the demographics in each store's geographic area.



Our Customers



We serve both Commercial and DIY customers. Our Commercial customers consist primarily of delivery customers for whom we use our commercial delivery fleet to deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, including independent garages, service stations and auto dealers.  We also serve approximately1,325independently-owned Carquest stores with shipments directly from our distribution centers. Our DIY customers are primarily served through our stores and can also order online to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them.



A majority of our stores include at least two parts professionals, or parts pros, who have extensive technical knowledge of automotive replacement parts and other related applications to better serve our Commercial and DIY customers. Many of our stores also include bilingual Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all of our Team Members, including formal classroom workshops, e-learning and certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE.  ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry.



Since 2008, we have concentrated a significant amount of our investments on increasing our Commercial sales at a faster rate in light of favorable market dynamics. We have added key product brands in our stores that are well recognized by our Commercial customers and have increased the number of parts professionals, delivery vehicles and other support services to serve those customers. In 2012, we added eService offerings for our Commercial customers, including online training solutions, fully searchable diagnostic and repair resources and online marketing services, which are available on a subscription basis. We believe these investments and the commitment to consistent delivery times and order accuracy will enable us to gain more Commercial customers as well as increase our sales to existing customers who will use us as their “first call” supplier. Our acquisition of GPI, which is highly concentrated in the Commercial market, also increased our market penetration and Commercial capabilities. As a result, our Commercial sales represented approximately57.0%of our sales in 2014 compared to40.4%in 2013.



While Commercial is our growth engine, DIY customers remain a sizable portion of our business and we remain focused on continuing to deliver on our value proposition to our core DIY customers as well. Store Team Members utilize our point-of-sale ("POS") system, including a fully integrated electronic parts catalog ("EPC"), to identify and suggest the appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the related products, tools or additional information that is required by our DIY customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and safely. Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services in our stores free of charge to our customers including:



•Battery and wiper installation;

•Battery charging;

•Check engine light reading;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” video clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool programs.



Store Development



Our store development program has historically focused on adding new stores and branches within existing markets where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores and entering new markets. The addition of new locations, along with strategic acquisitions, has played a significant role in our growth and success. We believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to our Commercial and DIY customers, will continue to play a significant role in our future growth and success.



We open and operate stores in both large, densely-populated markets and small, less densely-populated areas. We complete substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, traffic count, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors' stores and the cost of real estate.











Our5,372stores and branches were located in the following states, territories and international locations as ofJanuary 3, 2015:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresU.S. States:Alabama149Louisiana87Ohio268Alaska12Maine50Oklahoma33Arizona17Maryland123Oregon31Arkansas28Massachusetts127Pennsylvania262California97Michigan161Rhode Island21Colorado93Minnesota53South Carolina155Connecticut75Mississippi68South Dakota12District of Columbia1Missouri72Tennessee162Delaware16Montana28Texas251Florida583Nebraska37Utah16Georgia281Nevada5Vermont13Idaho8New Hampshire30Virginia246Illinois196New Jersey124Washington32Indiana138New Mexico12West Virginia77Iowa46New York257Wisconsin121Kansas43North Carolina329Wyoming14Kentucky119North Dakota9U.S. Territories:Puerto Rico28Virgin Islands1Canadian Provinces:Alberta3New Brunswick10Ontario58British Columbia4Newfoundland and Labrador3Prince Edward Island1Manitoba1Nova Scotia12Quebec63



The following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number of our stores and branches during the past five years:

20142013201220112010Beginning Stores4,0493,7943,6623,5633,420Stores Acquired(1)1,336124———New Stores(2)151172137104148Stores Closed(3)(164)(41)(5)(5)(5)Ending Stores5,3724,0493,7943,6623,563



(1)Includes 1,336 stores and branches resulting from our acquisition of GPI on January 2, 2014 and 124 stores resulting from our acquisition of BWP on December 31, 2012.

(2)Does not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of stores.

(3)The number of store closures in 2014 includes planned consolidations of 145 AI, BWP and Carquest stores and in 2013 includes the planned consolidations of 20 BWP stores.











Store Technology



Each of our store names utilizes a unique store operating system comprised of an integrated POS and EPC, which enables our store Team Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on the year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. In conjunction with our integration of the Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores, we plan to eventually utilize one POS system and EPC in the longer-term and leverage the benefits of each system.



Currently, information maintained by our Advance Auto Parts store operating system is used to formulate pricing, marketing and merchandising strategies and to replenish inventory accurately and rapidly. It also provides real-time inventory tracking at the store level allowing store Team Members to check the quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items for store specific events, automatically process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and track merchandise transfers. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available at one of our Advance Auto Parts stores, the store system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock through our HUB network, can be cross-sourced enterprise wide or can be ordered directly from one of our vendors. Available parts and accessories are then ordered electronically with immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery time.



The Worldpac speedDIAL®parts catalog and fulfillment ordering system provides expanded capabilities to Worldpac's Commercial customers and other stores throughout our enterprise. This tool allows customers to check real-time parts availability on over 100,000 parts, view images on over 90,000 parts, check prices, place orders, view invoices and self-service returns.



Store Support Centers



We are headquartered in Roanoke, VA and serve our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores primarily from our store support centers in Roanoke, VA and Raleigh, NC. We also maintain a store support center in Newark, CA to support our Worldpac and e-commerce operations and in Norton, MA to support our Autopart International stores.



Merchandising.In2014, we purchased merchandise from over500vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than6%of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and volume.



Our merchandising teams have developed strong vendor relationships in the industry and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilizes a category management process where we manage the mix of our product offerings to meet customer demand. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory productivity.



Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories which we believe will generate DIY customer traffic and also appeal to our Commercial customers. Since our acquisition of GPI, we have rolled out cross-sourcing capabilities to the majority of our stores and more recently we have begun integrating our product offerings in our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores. Some of our brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Denso®, Gates®, Moog®, Monroe®, NGK®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Autopart International®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®as well as the Carquest®brand acquired from GPI.



Supply Chain.Our supply chain consists of a network of distribution centers, HUBs, stores and branches which enable us to provide same-day or next-day availability to our customers. Our inventory management teams utilize replenishment systems to monitor inventory levels across the network and order additional product when appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment systems utilize the most up-to-date information from our POS systems as well as inventory movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality (and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. These factors are combined with service level goals, vendor lead times and cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase orders. The vast majority of our purchase orders are sent to our merchandise vendors via electronic data interchange.



The acquisition of GPI significantly increased the number of distribution centers that we operate.  As ofJanuary 3, 2015, we operatedfiftydistribution centers compared to twelve distribution centers as of December 28, 2013. Thethirty-fourdistribution centers serving Carquest stores are significantly smaller at an average of125,000square feet than our existing Advance Auto Parts distribution centers which average approximately500,000square feet. One of our integration priorities in









2015 is to begin aligning the product offering in our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest distribution centers and to eventually connect their respective systems so we can operate as one integrated supply chain. Worldpac will continue to operatefourdistribution centers to service its branches and provide cross-sourcing to our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores.



In addition to the distribution centers acquired with GPI, we also opened our newest distribution center in Hartford, CT in late 2014. This facility incorporates our more advanced warehouse management system, similar to the system utilized by our Remington, IN facility which opened in 2012. This technology has furthered our ability to roll out daily replenishment to the stores served by these facilities. Our supply chain initiatives to further increase the efficient utilization of our distribution capacity, including planning for the roll-out of the advanced technology used at the Hartford and Remington facilities to other facilities in our supply chain network, will now get incorporated into our overall integration plan.



Marketing & Advertising.Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness, consideration and omni-channel traffic by positioning Advance Auto Parts as the leader in parts availability and project support within the aftermarket auto parts category.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations end to end through a comprehensive online experience, extensive parts assortment, speed at the parts counter and our DIY customer loyalty program, Speed Perks.



The current campaign was developed based on extensive research with our customers. The campaign targets core DIY customers and emphasizes our understanding of what motivates their passion to work on cars.  It is built around a multi-channel communications plan which brings together radio, television, direct marketing, mobile and social media and in-store and event signage directed to both our general market and Hispanic and Latino customers.

We also have Commercial marketing programs that are designed to build loyalty with our Commercial customers who rely on us for quality products and services each and every day so they can in turn successfully serve their customers. In addition to various loyalty and rebate programs, we offer dedicated training support and other eServices to our Commercial customers, including:



TECH-NET Professional Auto Service®- is our marketing solutions program offered to the commercial shop owner to help them attract and retain customers by having consistent branding, banner programs and solutions for attracting automotive technicians and other technical resources.



CARQUEST Technical Institute®(CTI)- offers our valued customers the tools and training to stay ahead of an increasingly competitive and fast-changing marketplace. We target service facility owners, shop managers, service consultants and professional technicians. CTI instructors have over 350 ASE certifications and understand the technical skills required to be productive and profitable and reach over 25,000 technicians annually.

MotoShop- is a technology solution portfolio consisting of a suite of electronic tools that supports our Commercial customers with: (i) online marketing solutions, (ii) fully searchable diagnostic and repair service resources, (iii) online shop tech training and (iv) a shop management system.

Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate. Our fourth quarter is generally our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs typically influence our Commercial and DIY sales.



Team Members



As ofFebruary 26, 2015, we employed approximately41,600full-time Team Members and approximately31,400part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of87%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,9%employed in distribution and4%employed in our corporate offices. As ofFebruary 26, 2015, less than 1% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We have never experienced any labor disruption. We believe that our Team Member relations are solid.











Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service marks and trademarks, including "Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “Carquest", “CARQUEST Technical Institute”, “DriverSide”, “MotoLogic”,  “MotoShop”, “Worldpac”, “Service is our best part”, “speedDIAL” and “TECH-NET Professional Auto Service” for use in connection with the automotive parts business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks and we actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We operate in both the Commercial and DIY markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., NAPA, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack and Uni-Select, Inc, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (iv) independently-owned stores, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based retailers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.



Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible.  Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.





