Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its subsidiaries and their respective operations. References to the acquisition of GPI refer to ourJanuary 2, 2014acquisition of General Parts International, Inc. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year. Our Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015 included 52 weeks of operations, while Fiscal 2014 included 53 weeks of operations. Our last 53-week year prior to 2014 was in 2008.



Overview



We are a leading automotive aftermarket parts provider in North America, serving both professional installers, or "Professional", and "do-it-yourself", or DIY, customers as well as independently-owned operators. Our stores and branches offer a broad selection of brand name, original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light and heavy duty trucks. As ofDecember 31, 2016, the end of our2016fiscal year, or2016, we operated5,062total stores and127branches primarily under the trade names "Advance Auto Parts", "Autopart International", "Carquest" and "Worldpac".



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we began targeting the sale of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. We began our Professional delivery program in 1996 and have steadily increased our sales to Professional customers since 2000. We have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc.



Our most recent strategic acquisition was onJanuary 2, 2014when we acquired GPI. GPI, formerly a privately held company, was a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for Professional markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac names. As of the acquisition date, GPI operated1,233Carquest stores and103Worldpac branches located in45states and Canada and serviced approximately1,400independently-owned Carquest stores. The acquisition allowed us to expand our geographic presence, Professional capabilities and overall scale to better serve our customers.



Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our 2016 fiscal year. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating Segments



During2016we operated as a single reportable segment comprised of our store and branch operations. A discussion of our segment structure and disclosure of sales by product category is available in Note 19,Segment and Related Information,of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15,Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Store Names



Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our Professional and DIY customers through a variety of channels ranging from traditional "brick and mortar" store locations to self-service e-commerce sites. We believe we are better able to meet our customers' needs by operating under several store names.



Advance Auto Parts- Consists of4,273stores as ofDecember 31, 2016generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on both Professional and DIY customers. The average size of an Advance store is approximately7,500square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,000to8,500square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles. Our Advance Auto Parts stores carry a product offering of approximately23,000stock keeping units, or SKUs, generally









consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store's respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, additional less common SKUs are available in many of our larger stores, known as HUB stores. These additional SKUs are available on a same-day or next-day basis.



Carquest- Consists of608stores as ofDecember 31, 2016, including138stores in Canada. Our Carquest stores are generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on Professional customers, but also serving DIY customers. The average size of a Carquest store is approximately7,600square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving the aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles with a product offering of approximately23,000SKUs. We continue to convert or consolidate the U.S. Carquest stores with our Advance Auto Parts stores as part of our multi-year integration plan. As ofDecember 31, 2016, Carquest also served approximately1,250independently-owned stores which operate under the Carquest name.



Worldpac- Consists of127branches as ofDecember 31, 2016that principally serve Professional customers utilizing an efficient and sophisticated on-line ordering and fulfillment system. The Worldpac branches are generally larger than our other store locations averaging approximately27,000square feet in size. Worldpac specializes in imported, OEM parts. Worldpac's complete product offering includes over120,000SKUs for over 40 import and domestic vehicle carlines.



Autopart International("AI")- Consists of181stores as ofDecember 31, 2016operating primarily in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States focusing on the Professional customer. These stores specialize in imported aftermarket and private label branded auto parts. The AI stores offer approximately41,000SKUs through routine replenishment from their supply chain.



We acquired the Carquest and Worldpac operations as part of our acquisition of GPI onJanuary 2, 2014. Since the acquisition, we have consolidated or converted approximately615Carquest stores into the Advance Auto Parts format, completed support center consolidations, integrated our field teams, harmonized pricing and brands and substantially completed product changeovers. In addition, we have been able to utilize cross-sourcing of inventory between most of our enterprise-wide locations to expand availability and the breadth of our product offerings to better meet the needs of our customers. Under our strategic business plan we will continue integrating the operations of Advance Auto Parts and Carquest.



Through our integrated operating approach, we also serve our customers online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com and www.Worldpac.com. Our Professional customers, consisting primarily of delivery customers for whom we deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Professional customers’ places of business, can conveniently place their orders online through these websites. Our online websites also allow our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them.



We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket industry by providing superior availability and outstanding customer service. We offer our customers quality products which are covered by a solid warranty. Many of our products are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality.











The following table shows some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:

Parts & BatteriesAccessories & ChemicalsEngine MaintenanceBatteries and battery accessoriesAC chemicals and accessoriesAir filtersBelts and hosesAir freshenersFuel and oil additivesBrakes and brake padsAntifreeze and washer fluidFuel filtersChassis partsElectrical wire and fusesGrease and lubricantsClimate control partsElectronicsMotor OilClutches and drive shaftsFloor mats, seat covers and interior accessoriesOil filtersEngines and engine partsHand and specialty toolsPart cleaners and treatmentsExhaust systems and partsLightingTransmission fluidHub assembliesPerformance partsIgnition components and wireSealants, adhesives and compoundsRadiators and cooling partsTire repair accessoriesStarters and alternatorsVent shades, mirrors and exterior accessoriesSteering and alignment partsWashes, waxes and cleaning suppliesWiper blades



Our Customers



We serve both Professional and DIY customers. Our Professional customers consist primarily of delivery customers for whom we use our Professional delivery fleet to deliver product from our store or branch locations to our Professional customers’ places of business, including garages, service stations and auto dealers. We also serve approximately1,250independently-owned Carquest stores with shipments directly from our distribution centers. Our DIY customers are primarily served through our stores and can also order online to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them. The majority of the Company's online DIY sales are picked up at store locations.



We employ parts professionals, or parts pros, who have extensive technical knowledge of automotive replacement parts and other related applications to better serve our Professional and DIY customers. Many of our stores also include bilingual Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all of our Team Members, including formal classroom workshops, e-learning and certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE. ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry.



Our Professional sales represented approximately58%and57%of our sales in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since 2008, we have concentrated a significant amount of our investments on increasing our Professional sales at a faster rate in light of favorable market dynamics. Serving professional customers requires a high-quality product assortment, delivery service that is fast and consistent, technology to drive growth and the ease of doing business, a sales team dedicated to providing excellent customer service, and training to enable our customers to grow their business. We believe our investments and commitment to continually improving the overall customer experience will enable us to gain more Professional customers as well as increase our sales to existing customers who will use us as their “first call” or "first click" supplier.

While Professional is our growth engine, DIY customers remain a sizable portion of our business and we remain focused on growing sales to DIY customers. Similar to the Professional customer, high quality parts availability and outstanding customer service are important to our DIY customers. In addition to location, some of the factors driving the decisions on how DIYers choose an auto parts retailer include vehicle history, repair complexity and their level of expertise. To ensure that we can meet these needs we continue to improve parts availability and are focused on training to build knowledge and capability in priority segments. We are also increasing our investment in mobile and digital technology to seamlessly connect the online and in-store experience. Store Team Members utilize our point-of-sale ("POS") system, including a fully integrated electronic parts catalog ("EPC"), to identify and suggest the appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the related products, tools or additional information that are required by our DIY customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and safely. Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services at our stores free of charge to our customers including:



•Battery and wiper installation;

•Battery charging;









•Check engine light reading;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” video clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool programs.



Store Development



Our store development program has historically focused on adding new stores and branches within existing markets where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores and entering new markets. The addition of new locations, along with strategic acquisitions, has played a significant role in our growth and success. We believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to our Professional and DIY customers, will continue to play a significant role in our future growth and success.



We open and operate stores in both large, densely-populated markets and small, less densely-populated areas. We complete substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, traffic count, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors' stores and the cost of real estate.



Our5,189stores and branches were located in the following states, territories and international locations as ofDecember 31, 2016:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresU.S. States:Alabama137Louisiana71Ohio263Alaska11Maine40Oklahoma29Arizona19Maryland135Oregon28Arkansas24Massachusetts127Pennsylvania266California93Michigan148Rhode Island22Colorado87Minnesota46South Carolina147Connecticut77Mississippi65South Dakota10District of Columbia1Missouri64Tennessee156Delaware17Montana26Texas265Florida534Nebraska31Utah22Georgia273Nevada15Vermont12Idaho9New Hampshire29Virginia246Illinois182New Jersey131Washington30Indiana120New Mexico15West Virginia81Iowa41New York263Wisconsin110Kansas40North Carolina312Wyoming13Kentucky112North Dakota6U.S. Territories:Puerto Rico27Virgin Islands1Canadian Provinces:Alberta3New Brunswick11Ontario63British Columbia4Newfoundland and Labrador3Prince Edward Island1Manitoba1Nova Scotia12Quebec62











The following table sets forth information concerning changes in the total number of our stores and branches during the past five years:

20162015201420132012Beginning Stores5,2935,3724,0493,7943,662Stores Acquired(1)——1,336124—New Stores(2)78121151172137Stores Closed(3)(182)(200)(164)(41)(5)Ending Stores5,1895,2935,3724,0493,794



(1)Includes 1,336 stores and branches resulting from our acquisition of GPI on January 2, 2014 and 124 stores resulting from our acquisition of B.W.P. Distributors, Inc. ("BWP") on December 31, 2012. We consider stores acquired in smaller acquisitions new stores for purposes of the store rollforward as they are converted to our systems and processes upon acquisition and do not require significant integration activities.

(2)Does not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of stores.

(3)The number of store closures in 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 includes planned consolidations of 159, 111, 145 and 20, respectively, Carquest, AI and BWP stores.



Store Technology



Our stores utilize operating systems comprised of an integrated POS system and EPC, which enable our store Team Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on the year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. Historically we have operated separate legacy store systems for Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores. Under our strategic business plan, we have begun the rollout of a single POS and EPC that leverages the benefits of each system. Team Members can check the quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items for store specific events, automatically process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and track merchandise transfers. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available, the store system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock through our supply chain network, or can be ordered directly from one of our vendors. Parts and accessories are then ordered electronically with immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery time.



The Worldpac speedDIAL®parts catalog and fulfillment ordering system provides expanded capabilities to Worldpac's Professional customers and other stores throughout our enterprise. This tool allows customers to check real-time parts availability on over 110,000 parts, view images on over 85,000 parts, check prices, place orders, view invoices and submit self-service returns.



Store Support Centers



We serve our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores primarily from our store support centers in Roanoke, VA and Raleigh, NC. We also maintain a store support center in Newark, CA to support our Worldpac and e-commerce operations and in Norton, MA to support our Autopart International stores.



Merchandising.In2016, we purchased merchandise from over500vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than8%of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and volume.



Our merchandising teams have developed strong vendor relationships in the industry and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilize a category management process where we manage the mix of our product offerings to meet customer demand. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory productivity.



Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories which we believe will appeal to our Professional customers and also generate DIY customer traffic. Since our acquisition of GPI, we have rolled out cross-sourcing capabilities to the majority of our stores and have substantially completed the integration of our product offerings in our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores. Some of our brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Denso®, Gates®, Moog®, Monroe®, NGK®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers.









These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Autopart International®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®as well as the Carquest®brand acquired from GPI.



Supply Chain.Our supply chain consists of a network of distribution centers, HUBs, stores and branches which enable us to provide same-day or next-day availability to our customers. As ofDecember 31, 2016, we operated50distribution centers, ranging in size from approximately55,000to665,000square feet with total square footage of approximately10.8 million.   Currently, our smaller distribution centers primarily service our Carquest stores acquired with GPI, including those that have converted to the Advance Auto Parts format, while our larger distribution centers primarily service Advance Auto Parts, Autopart International and Worldpac locations. In 2016, we closed one distribution center in Sutton, MA and opened one new Worldpac distribution center in the greater Dallas, TX area. We also plan to open a new distribution center in the greater Nashville, TN area in 2017.



We tailor the delivery frequency from our distributions centers to our stores and branches to the demands of our local markets. We also utilize HUBs and other in-market strategies to increase in-market parts availability and decrease order-to-delivery time, while at the same time reducing inventory and days on hand. In addition, we utilize cross-sourcing of inventory between most of our enterprise-wide locations to expand availability and the breadth of our product offerings to better meet the needs of our customers.



Our inventory management teams utilize replenishment systems to monitor inventory levels across the network and order additional product when appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment systems utilize the most up-to-date information from our POS systems as well as inventory movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality (and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. These factors are combined with service level goals, vendor lead times and cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase orders.



Our strategic initiatives include streamlining our entire supply chain infrastructure to build new capabilities to improve availability, delivery consistency and speed, and drive growth, while removing unnecessary costs. We plan to begin simplifying and fully integrating our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest networks by 2018, which will include the implementation of a single information technology system. This optimization will improve product availability, drive productivity through reducing the number of miles from the distribution center to the store, and simplify our systems and processes by enabling seamless inventory transfer throughout the chain.



Marketing & Advertising.Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness, consideration and omni-channel traffic by positioning Advance Auto Parts as the leader in parts availability, in-store parts and project expertise within the aftermarket auto parts category. We strive to exceed our customers' expectations end-to-end through a comprehensive online and pick up in-store experience, extensive parts assortment, experienced parts professionals and our DIY customer loyalty program, Speed Perks.



Our DIY campaign was developed based on observations of consumer behavior changes, research with our customers and analytics. It appeals to those customers and emphasizes our understanding of the parts, service and support they need to get back on the road. It is built around a multi-channel communications plan which brings together radio, television, direct marketing, social media, sponsorships store events and Speed Perks.

We also have Professional programs that are designed to build loyalty with our Professional customers who rely on us for quality products and services each and every day so they can in turn successfully serve their customers. In addition to various loyalty and rebate programs, we offer dedicated training support and other services to our Professional customers, including:



TECH-NET Professional Auto Service®- our marketing solutions program offered to the professional shop owner to help them attract and retain customers by having consistent branding, banner programs and solutions for attracting automotive technicians and access to other resources.



CARQUEST Technical Institute®(CTI)- offers our valued customers the tools and training to stay ahead of an increasingly competitive and dynamic marketplace. We target service facility owners, shop managers, service consultants and professional technicians. CTI instructors have over 350 ASE certifications, understand the technical skills required to be productive and profitable, and reach over 25,000 technicians annually.

MotoShop®- is a technology solution portfolio consisting of a suite of electronic tools that supports our Professional customers with: (i) online marketing solutions, (ii) fully searchable diagnostic and repair service resources, (iii) online shop tech training and (iv) a shop management system.









Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate. Our fourth quarter is generally our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs typically influence our Professional and DIY sales.



Team Members



As ofFebruary 23, 2017, we employed approximately41,000full-time Team Members and approximately33,000part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of87%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,9%employed in distribution and4%employed in our corporate offices. As ofFebruary 23, 2017, less than 1% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We have never experienced any labor disruption. We believe that our Team Member relations are solid.



Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service marks and trademarks, including "Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “Carquest", “CARQUEST Technical Institute”, “DriverSide”, “MotoLogic”, “MotoShop”, “Worldpac”, “speedDIAL” and “TECH-NET Professional Auto Service” for use in connection with the automotive parts business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks and we actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We operate in both the Professional and DIY markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., NAPA, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack and Auto Plus (formerly Uni-Select USA, Inc.), (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (iv) independently-owned stores, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based retailers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.



Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and









common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible. Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.





