Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its predecessor, its subsidiaries and their respective operations. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year.  All fiscal years presented include 52 weeks of operations (the next 53 week fiscal year is 2014).



References to the acquisition of GPI refer to ourJanuary 2, 2014acquisition of General Parts International, Inc.  The discussion in this report relates to a period prior to our acquisition of GPI and, except as otherwise noted, does not give effect to the GPI acquisition.



Overview



We are a leading specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items primarily operating within the United States. Our stores carry an extensive product line for cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light trucks. We serve both “do-it-yourself,” or DIY, and “do-it-for-me,” or Commercial, customers. Our Commercial customers consist primarily of delivery customers for whom we deliver product from our store locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, including independent garages, service stations and auto dealers.



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we sharpened our focus to target sales of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. From the 1980s to the present, we have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. We began our Commercial delivery program in 1996 and have significantly increased our sales to Commercial customers since 2000. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc. As ofDecember 28, 2013, the end of our2013fiscal year, or Fiscal2013, we operated4,049total stores.



Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2013, we acquired GPI onJanuary 2, 2014. GPI, formerly a privately held company, is a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for commercial markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac brands. As of the acquisition date, GPI operated1,248Carquest stores and105Worldpac branches located in45states and Canada and serviced approximately1,400independently owned Carquest stores. We believe the acquisition will allow us to expand our geographic presence, Commercial capabilities and overall scale to better serve our customers.



Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating Segments



As of December 28, 2013, we operated in two reportable segments: Advance Auto Parts, or AAP, and Autopart International, or AI. The AAP segment is comprised of our store operations, which operate under the trade names “Advance Auto Parts” and “Advance Discount Auto Parts”. The AI segment consists solely of the operations of Autopart International, Inc. which operates under the “Autopart International” trade name.



Financial information on our segments is included in Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsof this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, selected financial data for our segments is available in Note21,Segment and Related Information,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15,Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









AAP Segment



As ofDecember 28, 2013, we operated3,832AAP stores throughout39states in the Northeastern, Southeastern and Midwestern (inclusive of South Central) regions of the United States, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. These stores operated under the “Advance Auto Parts” trade name except for certain stores in the state of Florida, which operated under the “Advance Discount Auto Parts” trade name. These stores offer a broad selection of brand name and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars and light trucks. Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our DIY and Commercial customers from our store locations and online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. Our online website allows our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to their home or business. Our Commercial customers can conveniently place their orders online.



AAP Stores



Store Overview.   Our stores generally are located in freestanding buildings in areas with high vehicle traffic counts, good visibility and easy access to major roadways and to our Commercial customers. We believe that our stores exhibit a customer-friendly format with the majority of our stores featuring an updated exterior and interior, bright lighting, and a well-designed and easily navigated floor plan. The average size of our stores is7,300square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,000to8,000square feet. Our stores generally are open from 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six days a week and 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays and most holidays to meet the needs of our DIY and Commercial customers.



Our stores carry a product offering of approximately20,000stock keeping units, or SKUs, generally consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store's respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, we have374larger stores, known as HUB stores, which stock an additional15,000less common SKUs which are available to our stores within the HUB store's service areas on a same-day or next-day basis. Our stores also have access to a total assortment of93,000SKUs for same-day or next-day delivery from our network of19Parts Delivered Quickly, or PDQ®, facilities. Additionally, our customers have access to over522,000SKUs by ordering directly from one of our vendors for delivery to a particular store or other destination as chosen by the customer.



We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket industry by fulfilling our promise, 'Service is our best part®' through our Superior Availability and Service Leadership strategies.  We offer our customers quality products which are covered by a solid warranty. Many of our products are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality. Store Team Members utilize our proprietary point-of-sale, or POS, system, including a fully integrated electronic parts catalog to identify and suggest the appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the related products, tools or additional information that is required by our customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and safely.



The primary categories of products we offer in our stores include:



•Parts, including alternators, batteries, belts and hoses, brakes and brake pads, chassis parts, clutches, driveshafts, engines and engine parts, ignition parts, lighting, radiators, starters, spark plugs and wires, steering and alignment parts, transmissions, water pumps and windshield wiper blades;

•Accessories, including air fresheners, anti-theft devices, emergency road kits, floor mats, ice scrapers, mirrors, vent shades, MP3 and cell phone accessories, and seat and steering wheel covers;

•Chemicals, including antifreeze, brake and power steering fluid, freon, fuel additives, windshield washer fluid and car washes and waxes;

•Oil,transmission fluid and other automotive petroleum products; and

•Other miscellaneous offerings, including certain eServices.



The product in our stores is generally arranged in a uniform and consistent manner based on standard store formats and merchandise presentation. The parts inventory is generally located on shelves behind the customer service counter with the remaining product, or front room merchandise, arranged on the sales floor to provide easy customer access, maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to customers. We utilize aisle displays to feature high-demand or seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials, including bilingual signage based on the demographics in each store's geographic area.











Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services free of charge to our customers including:



•Battery & wiper installation;

•Battery charging;

•Check engine light reading;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” video clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool programs.



Our stores are 100% company operated and are divided into three geographic areas. Each geographic area is managed by a senior vice president, who is supported by regional and district management. District Leaders have direct responsibility for store operations in a specific district, which typically consists of12stores. Depending on store size and sales volume, each store is staffed by approximately8 to 16Team Members, under the leadership of a General Manager. Store Team Members are comprised of full and part-time Team Members. A majority of our stores include at least two parts professionals, or parts pros, who have an extensive technical knowledge of automotive replacement parts and other related applications to better serve our Commercial and DIY customers. Many of our stores include bilingual Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all of our Team Members, including formal classroom workshops, e-learning and certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE. ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry.



Commercial Sales.Our Commercial sales consist of sales to both our walk-in and delivery customers, which represented approximately37.2%of our AAP sales in Fiscal2013. Since 2000, we have aggressively expanded our sales to Commercial customers through our Commercial delivery program. For delivered sales, we utilize our Commercial delivery fleet to deliver product from our store locations to our Commercial customer's places of business, including independent garages, service stations and auto dealers. Our stores are supported by a Commercial sales team which is dedicated to the development of our national, regional and local Commercial customers. Our Commercial sales management is closely aligned with our store management as part of our overall integrated store operation.



Since 2008, we have concentrated a significant amount of our investments on increasing our Commercial sales at a faster rate in light of the favorable market dynamics.  We have added key product brands in our stores that are well recognized by our Commercial customers and have increased the number of parts professionals, delivery trucks and other support services to serve those customers.  In 2012, we added eService offerings to our Commercial customers, including online training solutions, fully searchable, diagnostic and repair resources and online marketing services which are available on a subscription basis. We believe these investments and the commitment to consistent delivery times and order accuracy will enable us to gain more Commercial customers as well as increase our sales to existing customers who will use us as their “first call” supplier. As ofDecember 28, 2013,3,485AAP stores, or90.9%of total AAP stores, had Commercial delivery programs.



Store Development.Our store development program has historically focused on adding new stores within existing markets where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores and entering new markets. The addition of new stores, along with strategic acquisitions, has played a significant role in our growth and success. We believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to our DIY and Commercial customers, will continue to play a significant role in our future growth and success.



We open and operate stores in both large, densely populated markets and small, less densely populated areas. We complete substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors' stores and the cost of real estate.











Our3,832AAP stores were located in the following states and territories as ofDecember 28, 2013:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresAlabama122Maryland90Pennsylvania210Arkansas28Massachusetts96Puerto Rico25Colorado58Michigan119Rhode Island22Connecticut59Minnesota19South Carolina137Delaware13Mississippi57South Dakota7Florida479Missouri48Tennessee141Georgia246Nebraska24Texas179Illinois127New Hampshire22Vermont18Indiana110New Jersey95Virgin Islands1Iowa28New Mexico1Virginia192Kansas28New York194West Virginia73Kentucky104North Carolina256Wisconsin64Louisiana62Ohio227Wyoming4Maine16Oklahoma31



The following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number of our AAP stores during the past five years:

20132012201120102009Beginning Stores3,5763,4603,3693,2643,243New Stores(1)284(2)1169511075Stores Closed(28)(3)—(4)(5)(54)Ending Stores3,8323,5763,4603,3693,264



(1)Does not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of stores.

(2)Includes 124 stores resulting from our acquisition of B.W.P. Distributors, Inc. ("BWP") on December 31, 2012.

(3)The number of store closures in 2013 includes the planned consolidations of 20 BWP stores.



Store Technology.Our store-based information systems are comprised of a proprietary and integrated Point of Sale, electronic parts catalog, or EPC, and store-level inventory management system (collectively “store system”).  Information maintained by our store system is used to formulate pricing, marketing and merchandising strategies and to replenish inventory accurately and rapidly. Our fully integrated system enables our store Team Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on the year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. Our store system provides real-time inventory tracking at the store level allowing store Team Members to check the quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items for store specific events, automatically process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and track merchandise transfers. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available at one of our stores, the store system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock through our HUB or PDQ®networks or can be ordered directly from one of our vendors. Available parts and accessories are then ordered electronically from another store, HUB, PDQ®or directly from the vendor with immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery time.



Our centrally-based EPC data management system enables us to reduce the time needed to (i) exchange data with our vendors and (ii) catalog and deliver updated, accurate parts information. We also support our store operations with additional proprietary systems and customer driven labor scheduling capabilities. All of these systems are tightly integrated and provide real-time, comprehensive information to store personnel, resulting in improved customer service levels, Team Member productivity and in-stock availability.  In Fiscal 2013, we began rolling out a new and enhanced EPC to a limited number of stores which is expected to simplify and improve the customer experience. Among the improvements is a more efficient way to systematically identify add-on sales to ensure our customers have what they need to complete their automotive repair project.











Store Support Center



Merchandising.Purchasing for virtually all of the merchandise for our stores is handled by our merchandise teams located in three primary locations:



•Store support center in Roanoke, Virginia;

•Regional office in Minneapolis, Minnesota; and

•Global sourcing office in Taipei, Taiwan.



Our Roanoke team is primarily responsible for the parts categories and our Minnesota team is primarily responsible for accessories, oil and chemicals. Our global sourcing team works closely with both teams.



In Fiscal2013, we purchased merchandise from approximately490vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than9%of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and volume.



The merchandising team has developed strong vendor relationships in the industry and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilizes a category management process where we manage the mix of our product offerings to meet customer demand. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory productivity.



Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories which we believe will generate DIY customer traffic and also appeal to our Commercial customers. Some of these brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Moog®, Monroe®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®.



Supply Chain.Our supply chain consists of centralized inventory management and transportation functions which support a supply chain network of distribution centers, PDQ®warehouses, HUBs and stores. Our inventory management team utilizes a replenishment system to monitor the distribution center, PDQ®warehouse, HUB and store inventory levels and orders additional product when appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment system utilizes the most up-to-date information from our POS system as well as inventory movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality (and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. Our replenishment system combines these factors with service level goals, vendor lead times and cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase orders. The vast majority of our purchase orders are sent to our merchandise vendors via electronic data interchange.



We operatenineAAP distribution centers. All of these distribution centers are equipped with a warehouse management system, or WMS, which provides real-time inventory tracking through the processes of receiving, picking, shipping and replenishing inventory at our distribution centers. The WMS, integrated with material handling equipment, reduces warehouse and distribution costs, while improving efficiency. This equipment includes carousels, “pick-to-light” systems, radio frequency technology, voice technology and automated sorting systems. We opened our newest distribution center in Remington, Indiana in late 2012. It incorporates our more advanced warehouse management system which has enabled us to roll out daily replenishment to many of the stores serviced by Remington. We have ongoing supply chain initiatives to further increase the efficient utilization of our distribution capacity including planning for the roll-out of the advanced technology used at the Remington facility to other facilities in our supply chain network.



Store inventories are replenished from ourninedistribution centers. We utilize reputable dedicated carriers to ship product from our distribution centers to our stores. In addition to a store's normal inventory assortment, our stock PDQ®warehouses (nineof which are included in our distribution centers) offer approximately93,000SKUs to support all of our retail stores. Stores have visibility, through our EPC system, to inventory in their respective PDQ®warehouses and distribution centers as well as facilities throughout the Company and can place orders to these facilities through an online ordering system. Ordered parts are delivered to substantially all stores on a same-day or next-day basis through our dedicated PDQ®trucking fleet and third-party carriers.



Marketing & Advertising.Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness and store traffic by positioning the Advance Auto Parts brand as the service leader in the aftermarket auto parts category. We strive to exceed our customers' expectations through our value-added services, extensive parts assortment and quality merchandise.









The ‘Service is our best part®’ campaign was developed based on extensive research with our customers and Team Members. It has become the Company’s promise which has been embraced by each of our71,867Team Members. The campaign targets core DIY and Commercial customers and emphasizes our commitment to provide market-leading service to our customers. The campaign is built around a multi-channel communications plan which brings together radio, outdoor, direct marketing and digital media. The plan is supported by in-store and event signage as well as mobile and social media.



A final component of our marketing plan is event marketing.  Previously, Advance was the title sponsor of the Advance Auto Parts Monster Jam, a live family-oriented monster truck event tour.  Our sponsorship programs have shifted to local, grass-roots level events intended to positively impact the individual communities we serve, including Latino and other ethnic communities, and to drive awareness and repeated store visits.



AI Segment



AI’s business primarily serves the Commercial market, with an emphasis on parts for imported cars, from its store locations located primarily throughout the Northeastern, Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern regions of the United States. In addition, its North American Sales Division serves warehouse distributors and jobbers throughout North America. We believe AI provides a high level of service to its Commercial customers by providing premium parts, expert customer service and efficient parts delivery. As a result of its extensive sourcing network, AI is able to serve its customers in search of replacement parts for both domestic and imported cars and light trucks with a greater focus on imported parts. The vast majority of AI's product is sold under its own proprietary brand. The AI stores offer approximately30,000SKUs through routine replenishment from its supply chain with access to over200,000SKUs through local sourcing networks.



AI has significantly increased its store count since our acquisition of AI in September 2005. As ofDecember 28, 2013, we operated217stores under the “Autopart International” trade name in the following states:

LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresAlabama1Maine4New York33Connecticut16Maryland11Ohio5Delaware1Massachusetts31Pennsylvania22DC1North Carolina5Rhode Island4Florida40New Hampshire8South Carolina2Georgia6New Jersey18Virginia9



The following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number of our AI stores:

20132012201120102009Beginning Stores218202194156125New Stores122193832Stores Closed(13)(5)(1)—(1)Ending Stores217218202194156



Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate.



Team Members



As ofFebruary 20, 2014, we employed41,238full-time Team Members and approximately30,629part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of87%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,9%employed in distribution and4%employed in our corporate offices. Our team member counts reflect the GPI acquisition. As ofFebruary 20, 2014, less than 1% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We have never experienced any labor disruption. We believe that our Team Member relations are solid.









Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service marks and trademarks, including “Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “DriverSide”, “MotoLogic” and “Service is our best part”, for use in connection with the automotive parts retailing business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks, and we actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We operate in both the DIY and Commercial markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional retail chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, such as NAPA, (iv) independent operators, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based parts providers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.



Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible.  Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.















