Item 1.Business.



Unless
the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms
refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its predecessor, its subsidiaries and their
respective operations. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the
Saturday closest to December 31st of each year. Fiscal 2008 included 53 weeks of
operations. All other fiscal years presented include 52 weeks of
operations.



Overview



We are a
leading specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, accessories,
batteries and maintenance items primarily operating within the United States.
Our stores carry an extensive product line for cars, vans, sport utility
vehicles and light trucks. We serve both "do-it-yourself," or DIY, and
“do-it-for-me,” or Commercial, customers.



We were
founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a
retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we sharpened
our focus to target sales of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers.
From the 1980s to the present, we have grown significantly as a result of
comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions.
Since 1996, we have aggressively expanded our sales to Commercial customers
through our commercial delivery program. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the
acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc., or Discount. At January 2, 2010, our
2009 fiscal year-end, we operated 3,420 total stores.



Our
Internet address iswww.AdvanceAutoParts.com.
We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website
that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained
electronically by accessing the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating
Segments



We
operate in two reportable segments: Advance Auto Parts, or AAP, and Autopart
International, or AI. The AAP segment is comprised of our store operations
within the United States, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands which operate under
the trade names “Advance Auto Parts,” “Advance Discount Auto Parts” and “Western
Auto.” The AI segment consists solely of the operations of Autopart
International, Inc., or Autopart International, which operates as an
independent, wholly-owned subsidiary and primarily serves the Commercial market.
We acquired Autopart International in September 2005.



Financial
information on our segments is included in Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. In addition, selected financial data for our segments is
available in Note 21,Segment
and Related Information,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



AAP
Segment



At
January 2, 2010, we operated 3,264 AAP stores within the United States, Puerto
Rico and the Virgin Islands. We operated 3,238 stores throughout 39 states in
the Northeastern, Southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States.
These stores operated under the “Advance Auto Parts” trade name except for
certain stores in the state of Florida, which operated under the “Advance
Discount Auto Parts” trade name. These stores offer a broad selection of brand
name and proprietary automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and
maintenance items for domestic and imported cars and light trucks. In addition,
we operated 26 stores under the “Western Auto” and “Advance Auto Parts” trade
names, located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or Offshore.





We also
provide our customers online shopping atwww.AdvanceAutoParts.comand access to over 100,000 parts and accessories. Our new website was launched
in October 2009 and is operated by our dedicated e-commerce team. Our online
website allows our customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located
store or have their purchases shipped directly to their home or
business.



AAP
Stores



Store
Overview.   Our stores generally are located in
freestanding buildings in areas with high vehicle traffic counts, good
visibility and easy access to major roadways and to our Commercial customers. We
believe that our stores exhibit a customer-friendly format with the majority of
our stores featuring an updated exterior and interior, bright lighting, and a
well-designed and easily navigated floor plan. The average size of our stores is
7,400 square feet with the size of our typical new stores approximating 6,000 to
7,000 square feet. Our stores generally are open from 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six
days a week and 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Sundays and most holidays to meet the
needs of our DIY and Commercial customers. We offer extended hours in a limited
number of our stores, including 24 hours per day in certain stores.



Our
stores carry a standard product offering of approximately 16,000 stock keeping
units, or SKUs. Certain stores carry slightly more SKUs within centralized
market locations where there is demand for a more customized assortment of
merchandise. Additionally, some of our stores carry an additional customized
assortment of 11,000 SKUs for same-day or next-day delivery to other select
stores within the respective service area. We refer to these stores as HUB
stores. The standard SKU offering within each of our stores is replenished from
one of our eight distribution centers once per week on average.



We also
utilize a network of Parts Delivered Quickly, or PDQ®,
facilities and one Master PDQ®facility to ensure our stores have the right product at the right time to meet
our customers’ needs. Our PDQ®and
Master PDQ®network of facilities provide our customers with an additional assortment of
approximately 87,000 less common SKUs on a same-day or overnight basis. Lastly,
our customers have access to over 340,000 SKUs by ordering directly from one of
our vendors for delivery to a particular store or other destination as chosen by
the customer.



Store
Team Members utilize our proprietary point-of-sale, or POS, system, including a
fully integrated electronic parts catalog to identify and suggest the
appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the
related products, tools or additional information that is required by our
customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and
safely.  We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket
industry in serving our customers by providing quality products at the right
price and backed by a solid warranty and outstanding customer service. We offer
many of the products in our stores at a good, better or best recommendation
differentiated by price and quality.



The
primary categories of product we offer in our stores include:



·Parts, including
      alternators, batteries, chassis parts, clutches, engines and engine parts,
      radiators, starters, transmissions and water
  pumps;

·Accessories, including
      floor mats, mirrors, vent shades, MP3 and cell phone accessories, and seat
      and steering wheel covers;

·Chemicals, including
      antifreeze, freon, fuel additives and car washes and
      waxes;

·Oiland other automotive
      petroleum products; and

·Other
      miscellaneous offerings.



The product in our stores is generally
arranged in a uniform and consistent manner based on standard store formats and
merchandise presentation.  The parts inventory is generally located on
shelves behind the customer service counter with the remaining product, or front
room merchandise, arranged on the sales floor to provide easy customer access,
maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products and
accessories to customers. We utilize aisle displays to feature high-demand or
seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials, including bilingual
signage based on the demographics in each store’s geographic area.





We also
provide a variety of services free of charge to our customers
including:



·Battery
      & wiper installation

·Battery
      charging

·Check
      engine light reading where allowed by
law

·Electrical
      system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and
      sensors

·“How-To”
      Video Clinics & Project
Brochures

·Oil
      and battery recycling



Our
stores are 100% company operated and are divided into three geographic areas.
Each geographic area is managed by a senior vice president, who is supported by
regional and district management. District managers have direct responsibility
for store operations in a specific district, which typically consists on average
of 15 stores. Depending on store size and sales volume, each store is staffed by
8 to 16 Team Members, under the leadership of a general manager. Store Team
Members are comprised of full and part-time Team Members. Each store include a
parts professional, or parts pro, who has an extensive technical knowledge of
automotive replacement parts and other related applications  to better
serve our commercial and DIY customers. Many of our stores include bilingual
Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all
of our Team Members which includes formal classroom workshops, online seminars
and certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence,
or ASE. ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive
industry.



Commercial
Sales.Our
commercial sales consist of sales to both our walk-in and delivery Commercial
customers, which represented approximately 29% of our AAP sales in Fiscal 2009.
Since 1996, we have aggressively expanded our sales to Commercial customers
through our Commercial delivery program. For delivered sales, we utilize our
Commercial delivery fleet to deliver product from our store locations to our
Commercial customers’ place of business, including independent garages, service
stations and auto dealers. Our stores are supported by a Commercial sales team
who are dedicated to the development of our national, regional and local
Commercial customers.



Under our
Commercial Acceleration strategy, we are focused on increasing our Commercial
sales at a faster rate in light of the favorable market
dynamics.  During 2009, we increased the size of our sales force by
approximately 45% for a greater emphasis on acquiring new Commercial customers
and increasing our share of existing commercial customers’ purchases. We have
added key product brands in our stores that are well recognized by our
Commercial customers, as well as increased the parts knowledge of our store Team
Members. We believe these initiatives will enable us to gain more Commercial
customers as well as increase our sales from existing customers who will use us
as their “first call” supplier. At January 2, 2010, 2,868 AAP stores, or 88% of
total AAP stores, had Commercial delivery programs, which was up slightly from
85% at January 3, 2009.



Store
Development.Our store development
program has historically focused on adding new stores within existing markets
where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores
and entering new markets. The addition of new stores, along with strategic
acquisitions, has played a significant role in our growth and success. We
believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to
our DIY and Commercial customers, will continue to play a significant role in
our future growth and success.



We open
and operate stores profitably in both large, densely populated markets and
small, less densely populated areas that would not otherwise support a national
chain selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. We complete
substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting
new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile,
number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real
estate.





Our 3,264
AAP stores were located in the following states and territories at January 2,
2010:

LocationNumber
      ofStoresLocationNumber
      ofStoresLocationNumber
      ofStoresAlabama119Maryland74Pennsylvania163Arkansas29Massachusetts61Puerto
      Rico25Colorado44Michigan95Rhode
      Island9Connecticut37Minnesota14South
      Carolina126Delaware7Mississippi56South
      Dakota7Florida457Missouri43Tennessee139Georgia227Nebraska21Texas168Illinois82New
      Hampshire12Vermont7Iowa26New
      Mexico1Virgin
      Islands1Indiana101New
      Jersey55Virginia166Kansas24New
      York123West
      Virginia66Kentucky94North
      Carolina238Wisconsin46Louisiana62Ohio192Wyoming3Maine13Oklahoma31

The
following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number
of our AAP stores during the past five years:

20092008200720062005Beginning
      Stores3,2433,1532,9952,8102,652New
      Stores(1)75109175190169Stores
      Closed(54)(19)(17)(5)(11)Ending
      Stores(2)3,2643,2433,1532,9952,810

(1)Does
      not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing
      stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of
      stores.

(2)Includes
      2 and 7 stores not operating at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005,
      respectively, primarily due to hurricane
damage.



Store Technology.Our
store-based information systems, which are designed to improve the efficiency of
our operations and enhance customer service, are comprised of a proprietary POS
system and electronic parts catalog, or EPC, system.  Information
maintained by our POS system is used to formulate pricing, marketing and
merchandising strategies and to replenish inventory accurately and rapidly. Our
POS system is fully integrated with our EPC system and enables our store Team
Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on
year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. Our centrally-based EPC
data management system enables us to reduce the time needed to (i) exchange data
with our vendors and (ii) catalog and deliver updated, accurate parts
information.



Our EPC
system also contains enhanced search engines and user-friendly navigation tools
that enhance our Team Members’ ability to look up any needed parts as well as
additional products the customer needs to complete their automotive repair
project. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available at one of our
stores, the EPC system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock
through our PDQÒsystem. Available parts and accessories are then ordered electronically from
another store, PDQÒor Master PDQÒwith immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery
time.



We also
support our store operations with additional proprietary systems. Our
store-level inventory management system provides real-time inventory tracking at
the store level. With the store-level system, store Team Members can check the
quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items
for store





specific events, automatically
process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and
track merchandise transfers. Our stores use radio frequency hand-held devices to
help ensure the accuracy of our inventory. Our standard operating procedure, or
SOP, system is a web-based, electronic data management system that provides our
Team Members with instant and quick access to any of our standard operating
procedures through a comprehensive on-line search
function.  Additionally, we utilize a labor scheduling system known as
management planning and training, or MPT. All of these systems are tightly
integrated and provide real-time, comprehensive information to store personnel,
resulting in improved customer service levels, Team Member productivity and
in-stock availability.



Store
Support Center



Merchandising.Purchasing
for virtually all of the merchandise for our stores is handled by our
merchandise teams located in three primary locations:



·Store
      support center in Roanoke,
Virginia,

·Regional
      office in Minneapolis, Minnesota;
and

·Global
      sourcing office in Taipei, Taiwan beginning in
  2009.



Our
Roanoke team is primarily responsible for the parts categories and our Minnesota
team is primarily responsible for accessories, oil and chemicals. Our global
sourcing team works closely with both teams.



In Fiscal 2009, we purchased
merchandise from approximately 400 vendors, with no single vendor accounting for
more than 9% of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating
agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified
period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and
volume.



The
merchandising team has developed strong vendor relationships in the industry
and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilizes a category
management process. The merchandising team continues to refine its category
management process and has recently implemented the first phase of a category
management system which consists of a multi-phase implementation of an Oracle
system solution. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused
business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation
are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory
turns.



Our
merchandising strategy, which generates DIY customer traffic and also appeals to
Commercial customers, is to carry a broad selection of high quality brand name
automotive parts and accessories such as Bosch®,
Castrol®,
Sylvania®,
Prestone®,
Monroe®,
Wagner®,
Purolator®,
Dayco®, Trico®and
Federal-Mogul Moog®, or
Moog®. In
addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality
proprietary products that appeal to value conscious customers. These lines of
merchandise include everything from chemical and wash-and-wax products to tools,
batteries, parts and interior automotive accessories under various private label
names such as Wearever®and
Autocraft®.



Supply
Chain.Our
supply chain consists of centralized inventory management and transportation
functions which support a supply chain network of distribution centers, PDQ®warehouses and stores. Our inventory management team utilizes a replenishment
system to monitor the distribution center, PDQ®warehouse and store inventory levels and orders additional product when
appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment system utilizes
the most up-to-date information from our POS system as well as inventory
movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality
(and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. Our replenishment
system combines these factors with service level goals, vendor lead times and
cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase
orders. A significant portion of our purchase orders are sent via electronic
data interchange, with the remainder being sent by computer generated e-mail or
facsimile.



Our
transportation team utilizes a transportation management system to efficiently
manage incoming shipments to our distribution centers and from our distribution
centers to our stores. Benefits from this system include (i) reduced vendor to
distribution center freight costs, (ii) visibility of purchase orders and
shipments for the entire





supply chain, (iii) a reduction in
distribution center inventory, or safety stock, due to consistent transit times,
(iv) decreased third party freight and billing service costs, (v) decreased
distribution center to store freight costs and (vi) higher store in-stock
position. We utilize two reputable dedicated carriers to ship product from our
distribution centers to our stores.



We
currently operate eight distribution centers. All of these distribution centers
are equipped with our distribution center management system, or DCMS. Our DCMS
provides real-time inventory tracking through the processes of receiving,
picking, shipping and replenishing inventory at our distribution centers. The
DCMS, integrated with technologically advanced material handling equipment,
significantly reduces warehouse and distribution costs, while improving
efficiency. This equipment includes carousels, “pick-to-light” systems, radio
frequency technology, voice technology and automated sorting systems. Through
the continued implementation of our supply chain initiatives such as engineered
standards in our distribution centers, we expect to further increase the
efficient utilization of our distribution capacity. We believe our current
supply chain network, including a new distribution projected to open in Indiana
in 2011, provides ample capacity for our projected growth in the foreseeable
future.



We
currently offer approximately 56,000 SKUs to support all of our retail stores
via our 20 stand-alone PDQ®warehouses and/or our eight distribution centers (all of which stock PDQ®items). Stores have system visibility to inventory in their respective PDQÒwarehouses and distribution centers and can place orders to these facilities, or
as an alternative, through an online ordering system to virtually any of the
other facilities. Ordered parts are delivered to substantially all stores on a
same day or next day basis through our dedicated PDQ®trucking fleet and third party carriers. Store inventories are replenished from
our eight distribution centers. In addition, we operate a Master PDQ®warehouse that stocks approximately 31,000 incremental SKUs of harder-to-find
automotive parts and accessories and utilizes our existing PDQ®distribution infrastructure and/or third party arrangements to provide next day
service to substantially all of our stores.



Marketing &
Advertising.We have an extensive
marketing and advertising program designed to communicate our ability to meet
consumers’ needs through our merchandise offerings, parts assortment and
availability, competitive prices, free services and commitment to customer
service. Our marketing and advertising program is focused on establishing
Advance Auto Parts as the primary resource for a customer's automotive needs. We
reinforce our brand image through a mix of media that includes television,
radio, promotional signage, outdoor media, print, on-line advertising and our
Internet site.



Our
marketing and advertising plan is a brand-building program primarily built
around television, direct marketing, radio advertising, and local marketing. The
plan is supported by in-store signage, on-line advertising and print. Our
television advertising is a combination of national and regional media in both
sports and entertainment programming. Radio advertising generally airs during
peak drive times. We use Spanish-language radio and television advertising to
market to our Hispanic customers. Our advertising program is also supported
through a new title sponsorship program for Monster Jam, a live family oriented
motorsports event tour and television show highlighted by the racing and
freestyle competition of monster trucks, and sponsorships of sporting events,
racing teams and other grass-root level events intended to positively impact
individual communities, including Hispanic and other ethnic communities, to
create awareness and drive traffic for our stores. Since 2004, we have used an
integrated consumer education program to build our image as not only the best
source for parts, but also the best resource for vehicle information. Our goal
with our consumer education initiative is to continue our long-term brand
building success, increase customer loyalty and expand our customer
base.



We
continue to support our 2008 branding campaign, “Keep the wheels turning.” This
campaign was developed based on a strategic review of our business as well as
extensive research conducted with our customers and Team Members. We believe
this campaign, which targets core DIY and Commercial customers, differentiates
Advance Auto Parts in our industry by positioning us as (i) the brand that best
understands customers’ needs, (ii) the source for brand name parts and products
and (iii) the resource for expert advice and knowledge to help customers keep
their vehicles running. The campaign includes creative and compelling television
and radio commercials designed to drive sales and build an enduring, positive
image of Advance Auto Parts with our targeted customers.





AI
Segment



AI’s
business primarily serves the Commercial market, with an emphasis on parts for
imported cars, from its store locations located primarily throughout the
Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. In addition, its North American Sales
Division serves warehouse distributors and jobbers throughout North America. We
believe AI provides a high level of service to its Commercial customers by
providing quality parts, unsurpassed customer service and efficient parts
delivery. As a result of its extensive sourcing network, AI is able to serve its
customers in search of replacement parts for both domestic and imported cars and
light trucks with a greater focus on imported parts. The vast majority of AI’s
product is sold under its own proprietary brand. The AI stores offer
approximately 18,000 SKUs with access to an additional 17,000 unique SKUs
through its supply chain network.



AI has
significantly increased its store count since our acquisition of AI in September
2005. At January 2, 2010, we operated 156 stores under the “Autopart
International” trade name in the following states:

LocationNumber
      ofStoresLocationNumber
      ofStoresLocationNumber
      ofStoresConnecticut17Massachusetts32Pennsylvania20Delaware1New
      Hampshire8Rhode
      Island4Florida3New
      Jersey16Vermont1Maine4New
      York25Virginia12Maryland13

The
following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number
of our AI stores:

20092008200720062005Beginning
      Stores1251088762-New
      Stores3218212562(1)Stores
      Closed(1)(1)---Ending
      Stores1561251088762

(1)Of
      the 62 new stores in 2005, 61 stores were acquired in September 2005 as
      part of our AI acquisition.



Seasonality



Our
business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales occurring in the
spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather
conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as
elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold
weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an
accelerated rate.



Team
Members



At
February 26, 2010, we employed approximately 29,000 full-time Team Members and
approximately 20,000 part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of 90% of
our Team Members employed in store-level operations, 7% employed in distribution
and 3% employed in our corporate offices. We have never experienced any labor
disruption and are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. We believe
that our Team Member relations are good.



Intellectual
Property



We own a
number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service
marks and trademarks, including “Advance Auto Parts,” “Western Auto,” “Parts
America,” “Autopart International” and “PDQ®” for
use in connection with the automotive parts retailing business. In addition, we
own and have registered a number of



trademarks for our proprietary
products. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are
important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses
that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks, and we
actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We
operate in both the DIY and Commercial markets of the automotive aftermarket
industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional retail
chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., O'Reilly
Automotive, Inc. and The Pep Boys–Manny, Moe & Jack, (ii) discount stores
and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or
jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or
associations, such as NAPA and Carquest, (iv) independent operators and (v)
automobile dealers that supply parts. We believe that chains of automotive parts
stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have
competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection,
purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers
that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The
principal methods of competition in our business include store location, product
offerings, availability, quality, price and customer service.



Environmental
Matters





We own
and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a
current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the
cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in
such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be
imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was
responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other
environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose
liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work
place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real
properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to
released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the
Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating
that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may
have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which
we may be responsible.  Compliance with these laws and regulations has
not had a material impact on our operations to date.







