Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its subsidiaries and their respective operations. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year. Our2017,2016and2015fiscal years included 52 weeks of operations.



Overview



We are a leading automotive aftermarket parts provider in North America, serving both professional installers (“Professional”), and “do-it-yourself” (“DIY”), customers as well as independently owned operators. Our stores and branches offer a broad selection of brand name, original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light and heavy duty trucks. As ofDecember 30, 2017, the end of our2017fiscal year (“2017”), we operated5,054total stores and129branches primarily under the trade names “Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “Carquest” and “Worldpac”.



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we began targeting the sale of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. We began our Professional delivery program in 1996 and have steadily increased our sales to Professional customers since 2000. We have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc. In 2014, we acquired General Parts International, Inc. (“GPI”), a privately held company that was a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for Professional markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac names.



Segment and Related Information



During2017and 2016 we aggregated our operating segments into a single reportable segment comprised of our store and branch operations. A discussion of our segment structure is available in Note 2,Significant Accounting Policies,of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.



Stores and Branches



Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our Professional and DIY customers through a variety of channels ranging from traditional “brick and mortar” store locations to self-service e-commerce sites. We believe we are better able to meet our customers’ needs by operating under several store names, which are as follows:



Advance Auto Parts- Consists of4,432stores as ofDecember 30, 2017generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on both Professional and DIY customers. The average size of an Advance Auto Parts store is approximately7,500square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,200to15,000square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles. Our Advance Auto Parts stores carry a product offering of approximately22,000stock keeping units (“SKUs”), generally consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store’s respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, additional less common SKUs are available in many of our larger stores (known as “HUB” stores). These additional SKUs are available on a same-day or next-day basis.



Autopart International(“AI”)- Consists of185stores as ofDecember 30, 2017operating primarily in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States focusing on the Professional customer. These stores specialize in imported aftermarket and private label branded auto parts. The AI stores offer approximately41,000SKUs through routine replenishment from their supply chain.



Carquest- Consists of437stores as ofDecember 30, 2017, including138stores in Canada. Our Carquest stores are generally located in freestanding buildings with a heavy focus on Professional customers, but also serving DIY customers. The average size of a Carquest store is approximately7,600square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving the aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles with a product offering of approximately23,000SKUs. We continue to convert or consolidate the U.S. Carquest stores with our Advance Auto Parts stores as part of our multi-year integration plan. As ofDecember 30, 2017, Carquest also served1,218independently owned stores that operate under the Carquest name.











Worldpac- Consists of129branches as ofDecember 30, 2017that principally serve Professional customers utilizing an efficient and sophisticated on-line ordering and fulfillment system. The Worldpac branches are generally larger than our other store locations averaging approximately28,000square feet in size. Worldpac specializes in imported, OEM parts. Worldpac’s complete product offering includes over120,000SKUs for over 40 import and domestic vehicle carlines.



Our Products



The following table shows some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:

Parts & BatteriesAccessories & ChemicalsEngine MaintenanceBatteries and battery accessoriesAir conditioning chemicals and accessoriesAir filtersBelts and hosesAir freshenersFuel and oil additivesBrakes and brake padsAntifreeze and washer fluidFuel filtersChassis partsElectrical wire and fusesGrease and lubricantsClimate control partsElectronicsMotor oilClutches and drive shaftsFloor mats, seat covers and interior accessoriesOil filtersEngines and engine partsHand and specialty toolsPart cleaners and treatmentsExhaust systems and partsLightingTransmission fluidHub assembliesPerformance partsIgnition components and wireSealants, adhesives and compoundsRadiators and cooling partsTire repair accessoriesStarters and alternatorsVent shades, mirrors and exterior accessoriesSteering and alignment partsWashes, waxes and cleaning suppliesWiper blades



We provide our customers quality products, which many are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality.



Our Customers



Our Professional customers consist primarily of customers for whom we deliver product from our store or branch locations to their places of business, including garages, service stations and auto dealers. Our Professional sales represented approximately58%,58%and57%of our sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. We also serve1,218independently owned Carquest stores with shipments directly from our distribution centers. Our DIY customers are primarily served through our stores and can also order online to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them. Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services at our stores free of charge to our customers, including:



•Battery and wiper installation;

•Battery charging;

•Check engine light reading;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” video clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool programs.



We also serve our customers online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. Our Professional customers can conveniently place their orders electronically, over the phone or in-store and we deliver product from our store or branch locations to their places of business. Our online websites also allow our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them.











Store Development



Key factors in selecting sites and market locations in which we operate include population, demographics, traffic count, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. Our5,183stores and branches were located in the following states, territories and international locations as ofDecember 30, 2017:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresU.S. States:Alabama135Maine39Ohio265Alaska11Maryland136Oklahoma29Arizona20Massachusetts124Oregon28Arkansas24Michigan146Pennsylvania269California95Minnesota44Rhode Island22Colorado88Mississippi64South Carolina148Connecticut75Missouri64South Dakota10Delaware19Montana26Tennessee156Florida535Nebraska30Texas279Georgia272Nevada14Utah23Idaho9New Hampshire29Vermont12Illinois176New Jersey134Virginia244Indiana119New Mexico15Washington32Iowa40New York260West Virginia80Kansas39North Carolina310Wisconsin106Kentucky112North Dakota5Wyoming13Louisiana71U.S. Territories:Puerto Rico27Virgin Islands1Canadian Provinces:Alberta3New Brunswick11Ontario60British Columbia4Newfoundland and Labrador3Prince Edward Island1Manitoba1Nova Scotia13Quebec63



We serve our Advance Auto Parts and Carquest stores primarily from our store support centers in Roanoke, VA and Raleigh, NC. We also maintain a store support center in Newark, CA to support our Worldpac and e-commerce operations and in Norton, MA to support our Autopart International stores.



Supply Chain



Our supply chain consists of a network of distribution centers, HUBs, stores and branches that enable us to provide same-day or next-day availability to our customers. As ofDecember 30, 2017, we operated54distribution centers, ranging in size from approximately51,000to943,000square feet with total square footage of approximately12.0 million. Currently, our smaller distribution centers primarily service our Carquest stores, including those that have converted to the Advance Auto Parts format, while our larger distribution centers primarily service Advance Auto Parts, Autopart International and Worldpac locations. In2017, we opened new distribution centers in Houston, TX and in the greater Nashville, TN area.











Merchandise, Marketing and Advertising



In2017, we purchased merchandise from over600vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than9%of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other provisions, including pricing, volume and payment terms.



Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories that we believe will appeal to our Professional customers and also generate DIY customer traffic. Some of our brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Denso®, Gates®, Moog®, Monroe®, NGK®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Autopart International®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®as well as the Carquest®brand.



Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness, consideration and omni-channel traffic by positioning Advance Auto Parts as the leader in parts availability, in-store parts and project expertise within the aftermarket auto parts category. We strive to exceed our customers’ expectations end-to-end through a comprehensive online and pick up in-store experience, extensive parts assortment, experienced parts professionals, Professional programs that are designed to build loyalty with our customers and our DIY customer loyalty program, Speed Perks. Our DIY campaign was developed around a multi-channel communications plan that brings together radio, television, direct marketing, social media, sponsorships, store events and Speed Perks.



Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate. Our fourth quarter is generally our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs typically influence our Professional and DIY sales.



Team Members



As ofDecember 30, 2017, we employed approximately40,000full-time Team Members and approximately31,000part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of86%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,10%employed in distribution and4%employed in our corporate offices. As ofDecember 30, 2017, less than 1% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We have never experienced any labor disruption.



Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names, service marks and trademarks, including “Advance Auto Parts”, “Autopart International”, “Carquest”, “CARQUEST Technical Institute”, “DriverSide”, “MotoLogic”, “MotoShop”, “Worldpac”, “speedDIAL” and “TECH-NET Professional Auto Service” for use in connection with the automotive parts business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks and we actively defend and enforce them.



Competition



We operate in both the Professional and DIY markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., NAPA, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack and Auto Plus (formerly Uni-Select USA, Inc.), (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (iv) independently owned stores, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based retailers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.











Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible. Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean-up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.



Available Information



Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for2017. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.





