Item 1.Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its predecessor, its subsidiaries and their respective operations. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31stof each year. Fiscal 2008 included 53 weeks of operations. All other fiscal years presented include 52 weeks of operations (the next 53 week fiscal year is 2014).



Overview



We are a leading specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items primarily operating within the United States. Our stores carry an extensive product line for cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light trucks. We serve both "do-it-yourself," or DIY, and “do-it-for-me,” or Commercial, customers. Our Commercial customers consist primarily of delivery customers for whom we deliver product from our store locations to our Commercial customers’ places of business, including independent garages, service stations and auto dealers.



We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we sharpened our focus to target sales of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. From the 1980s to the present, we have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. We began our Commercial delivery program in 1996 and have significantly increased our sales to Commercial customers since 2000. Our parent company, Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc. AtDecember 31, 2011, the end of our2011fiscal year, or Fiscal 2011, we operated3,662total stores.



Our Internet address iswww.AdvanceAutoParts.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



Operating Segments



We operate in two reportable segments: Advance Auto Parts, or AAP, and Autopart International, or AI. The AAP segment is comprised of our store operations, which operate under the trade names “Advance Auto Parts,” “Advance Discount Auto Parts” and “Western Auto,” and our e-commerce operations. The AI segment consists solely of the operations of Autopart International, Inc. which operates under the “Autopart International” trade name.



Financial information on our segments is included in Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, selected financial data for our segments is available in Note 21,Segment and Related Information,of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



AAP Segment



AtDecember 31, 2011, we operated3,460AAP stores within the United States, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. We operated3,434AAP stores throughout39states in the Northeastern, Southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States. These stores operated under the “Advance Auto Parts” trade name except for certain stores in the state of Florida, which operated under the “Advance Discount Auto Parts” trade name. These stores offer a broad selection of brand name and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars and light trucks. In addition, we operated26AAP stores under the “Advance Auto Parts” and “Western Auto” trade names, located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, or Offshore. Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our DIY and Commercial customers from our store locations and online atwww.AdvanceAutoParts.com. Our online website allows our DIY customers to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to their home or business. Our Commercial customers can conveniently place their orders online.















AAP Stores



Store Overview.   Our stores generally are located in freestanding buildings in areas with high vehicle traffic counts, good visibility and easy access to major roadways and to our Commercial customers. We believe that our stores exhibit a customer-friendly format with the majority of our stores featuring an updated exterior and interior, bright lighting, and a well-designed and easily navigated floor plan. The average size of our stores is7,300square feet with the size of our typical new stores ranging from approximately6,000to8,000square feet. Our stores generally are open from 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six days a week and 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays and most holidays to meet the needs of our DIY and Commercial customers.



Our stores carry a product offering of approximately18,000SKUs, generally consisting of a custom mix of product based on the stores' respective market. Our stores also have access to an additional assortment of108,000SKUs for same-day or next-day delivery from one of our 254 HUB stores or our network of22Parts Delivered Quickly, or PDQ®, facilities. Additionally, our customers have access to over340,000SKUs by ordering directly from one of our vendors for delivery to a particular store or other destination as chosen by the customer.



We strive to be the leader in the automotive aftermarket industry by fulfilling our promise, 'Service is our best part®,' through our Service Leadership and Superior Availability strategies.  We offer our customers quality products which are backed by a solid warranty. Many of our products are offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality. Store Team Members utilize our proprietary point-of-sale, or POS, system, including a fully integrated electronic parts catalog to identify and suggest the appropriate quality and price options for the SKUs we carry, as well as the related products, tools or additional information that is required by our customers to complete their automotive repair projects properly and safely.



The primary categories of product we offer in our stores include:



•Parts, including alternators, batteries, belts and hoses, chassis parts, clutches, engines and engine parts, ignition, lighting, radiators, starters, spark plugs and wires, transmissions and water pumps;

•Accessories, including floor mats, mirrors, vent shades, MP3 and cell phone accessories, and seat and steering wheel covers;

•Chemicals, including antifreeze, brake and power steering fluid, freon, fuel additives, windshield washer fluid and car washes and waxes;

•Oil,transmission fluid and other automotive petroleum products; and

•Other miscellaneous offerings.



The product in our stores is generally arranged in a uniform and consistent manner based on standard store formats and merchandise presentation. The parts inventory is generally located on shelves behind the customer service counter with the remaining product, or front room merchandise, arranged on the sales floor to provide easy customer access, maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to customers. We utilize aisle displays to feature high-demand or seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials, including bilingual signage based on the demographics in each store's geographic area.



We also provide a variety of services free of charge to our customers including:



•Battery & wiper installation;

•Battery charging;

•Check engine light reading where allowed by law;

•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters, alternators and sensors;

•“How-To” Video Clinics;

•Oil and battery recycling; and

•Loaner tool program.



Our stores are 100% company operated and are divided into three geographic areas. Each geographic area is managed by a senior vice president, who is supported by regional and district management. District Leaders have direct responsibility for store operations in a specific district, which typically consists on average of 12 stores. Depending on store size and sales volume, each store is staffed by approximately 8 to 16 Team Members, under the leadership of a General Manager. Store Team Members are comprised of full and part-time Team Members. A majority of our stores include at least two parts professionals, or parts pros, who have an extensive technical knowledge of automotive replacement parts and other related applications to better serve our Commercial and DIY customers. Many of our stores include bilingual Team Members to better serve our diverse customer base. We offer training to all of our Team Members, including formal classroom workshops, e-learning and









certification by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence, or ASE. ASE is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry.



Commercial Sales.Our Commercial sales consist of sales to both our walk-in and delivery customers, which represented approximately34%of our AAP sales in Fiscal2011. Since 2000, we have aggressively expanded our sales to Commercial customers through our Commercial delivery program. For delivered sales, we utilize our Commercial delivery fleet to deliver product from our store locations to our Commercial customers' place of business, including independent garages, service stations and auto dealers. Our stores are supported by a Commercial sales team who are dedicated to the development of our national, regional and local Commercial customers. Our Commercial sales management is closely aligned with our store management as part of our overall integrated store operation.



Since 2008, we have concentrated a significant amount of our investments on increasing our Commercial sales at a faster rate in light of the favorable market dynamics.  We have added key product brands in our stores that are well recognized by our Commercial customers, and have increased the number of parts professionals, delivery trucks and other support services to serve those customers.  We believe these investments and the commitment to consistent delivery times and order accuracy will enable us to gain more Commercial customers as well as increase our sales to existing customers who will use us as their “first call” supplier. AtDecember 31, 2011,3,124AAP stores, or90%of total AAP stores, had Commercial delivery programs.



Store Development.Our store development program has historically focused on adding new stores within existing markets where we can achieve a larger presence, remodeling or relocating existing stores and entering new markets. The addition of new stores, along with strategic acquisitions, have played a significant role in our growth and success. We believe the opening of new stores, and their strategic location in relation to our DIY and Commercial customers, will continue to play a significant role in our future growth and success.



We open and operate stores in both large, densely populated markets and small, less densely populated areas. We complete substantial research prior to entering a new market. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors' stores and the cost of real estate.



Our3,460AAP stores were located in the following states and territories atDecember 31, 2011:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresAlabama121Maryland84Pennsylvania179Arkansas28Massachusetts70Puerto Rico25Colorado50Michigan112Rhode Island11Connecticut41Minnesota14South Carolina128Delaware7Mississippi57South Dakota7Florida465Missouri43Tennessee138Georgia233Nebraska21Texas174Illinois109New Hampshire15Vermont8Indiana107New Jersey65Virgin Islands1Iowa27New Mexico1Virginia177Kansas25New York133West Virginia69Kentucky102North Carolina242Wisconsin53Louisiana61Ohio209Wyoming3Maine14Oklahoma31











The following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number of our AAP stores during the past five years:

20112010200920082007Beginning Stores3,3693,2643,2433,1532,995New Stores(1)9511075109175Stores Closed(4)(5)(54)(19)(17)Ending Stores3,4603,3693,2643,2433,153



(1)Does not include stores that opened as relocations of previously existing stores within the same general market area or substantial renovations of stores.



Store Technology.Our store-based information systems, which are designed to improve the efficiency of our operations and enhance customer service, are comprised of a proprietary POS system and electronic parts catalog, or EPC, system.  Information maintained by our POS system is used to formulate pricing, marketing and merchandising strategies and to replenish inventory accurately and rapidly. Our POS system is fully integrated with our EPC system and enables our store Team Members to assist our customers in their parts selection and ordering based on the year, make, model and engine type of their vehicles. Our centrally-based EPC data management system enables us to reduce the time needed to (i) exchange data with our vendors and (ii) catalog and deliver updated, accurate parts information.



Our EPC system also contains enhanced search engines and user-friendly navigation tools that enhance our Team Members' ability to look up any needed parts as well as additional products the customer needs to complete an automotive repair project. If a hard-to-find part or accessory is not available at one of our stores, the EPC system can determine whether the part is carried and in-stock through our HUB or PDQ®networks or can be ordered directly from one of our vendors. Available parts and accessories are then ordered electronically from another store, HUB, PDQ®or directly from the vendor with immediate confirmation of price, availability and estimated delivery time.



We also support our store operations with additional proprietary systems and customer driven labor scheduling capabilities. Our store-level inventory management system provides real-time inventory tracking at the store level. With the store-level system, store Team Members can check the quantity of on-hand inventory for any SKU, adjust stock levels for select items for store specific events, automatically process returns and defective merchandise, designate SKUs for cycle counts and track merchandise transfers. Our stores use radio frequency hand-held devices to help ensure the accuracy of our inventory. Our standard operating procedure, or SOP, system is a web-based, electronic data management system that provides our Team Members with instant access to any of our standard operating procedures through a comprehensive on-line search function.  All of these systems are tightly integrated and provide real-time, comprehensive information to store personnel, resulting in improved customer service levels, Team Member productivity and in-stock availability.



Store Support Center



Merchandising.Purchasing for virtually all of the merchandise for our stores is handled by our merchandise teams located in three primary locations:



•Store support center in Roanoke, Virginia;

•Regional office in Minneapolis, Minnesota; and

•Global sourcing office in Taipei, Taiwan.



Our Roanoke team is primarily responsible for the parts categories and our Minnesota team is primarily responsible for accessories, oil and chemicals. Our global sourcing team works closely with both teams.



In Fiscal2011, we purchased merchandise from approximately 500 vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than 9% of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements with most of our vendors to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other terms, including pricing, payment terms and volume.



The merchandising team has developed strong vendor relationships in the industry and, in a collaborative effort with our vendor partners, utilizes a category management process where we manage the mix of our product offerings to meet customer demand. We believe this process, which develops a customer-focused business plan for each merchandise category, and our global sourcing operation are critical to improving comparable store sales, gross margin and inventory productivity.











Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories which we believe will generate DIY customer traffic and also appeal to our Commercial customers. Some of these brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Federal-Mogul Moog®, or Moog®, Monroe®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico®and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high quality private label products that appeal to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Driveworks®, Tough One®and Wearever®.



Supply Chain.Our supply chain consists of centralized inventory management and transportation functions which support a supply chain network of distribution centers, PDQ®warehouses, HUB's and stores. Our inventory management team utilizes a replenishment system to monitor the distribution center, PDQ®warehouse, HUB and store inventory levels and orders additional product when appropriate while streamlining handling costs. Our replenishment system utilizes the most up-to-date information from our POS system as well as inventory movement forecasting based upon sales history, sales trends by SKU, seasonality (and weather patterns) and demographic shifts in demand. Our replenishment system combines these factors with service level goals, vendor lead times and cost of inventory assumptions to determine the timing and size of purchase orders. The vast majority of our purchase orders are sent to our merchandise vendors via electronic data interchange.



We currently operateeightAAP distribution centers. All of these distribution centers are equipped with our distribution center management system, or DCMS. Our DCMS provides real-time inventory tracking through the processes of receiving, picking, shipping and replenishing inventory at our distribution centers. The DCMS, integrated with technologically advanced material handling equipment, reduces warehouse and distribution costs, while improving efficiency. This equipment includes carousels, “pick-to-light” systems, radio frequency technology, voice technology and automated sorting systems. We have ongoing supply chain initiatives to further increase the efficient utilization of our distribution capacity. Among these initiatives is the planned opening of our ninth AAP distribution center in 2012. The new distribution center will provide needed capacity to support our product availability initiatives and will utilize updated technology to eventually be implemented throughout our entire supply chain network.



Store inventories are replenished from oureightdistribution centers. We utilize reputable dedicated carriers to ship product from our distribution centers to our stores. In addition to a store's normal inventory assortment, we currently offer approximately81,000SKUs to support all of our retail stores via our22stand-alone PDQ®warehouses and/or oureightdistribution centers (all of which stock PDQ®items). Stores have visibility, through our EPC system, to inventory in their respective PDQ®warehouses and distribution centers as well as facilities throughout the Company and can place orders to these facilities through an online ordering system. Ordered parts are delivered to substantially all stores on a same-day or next-day basis through our dedicated PDQ®trucking fleet and third-party carriers. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, our HUB stores stock an additional27,000less common SKUs which are available to our stores within the HUB stores'  service area on a same-day or next-day basis.



Marketing & Advertising.Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness and store traffic  by positioning the Advance Auto Parts brand as the service leader in the aftermarket auto parts category.  We strive to exceed consumers' expectations through our free and value-added services, extensive parts assortment and quality merchandise offerings.



In early 2011, we launched our 'Service is our best part®' campaign nationwide. The campaign was developed based on extensive research with our customers and Team Members and brings to life a new brand promise for Advance. The campaign targets core DIY and Commercial customers and emphasizes our commitment to provide market-leading service to our customers.



Our multi-channel marketing communication plan is built around radio, direct marketing, digital and local marketing. The plan is supported by public relations, in-store and event signage as well as mobile and social media. We also use Spanish-language television, radio and outdoor advertising to reach our Latino customers.



A final and key component of our advertising is our local marketing program highlighted by our title sponsorship of the Advance Auto Parts Monster Jam, a live family-oriented monster truck event tour and television show. We are the title sponsor of the show and as such, the Advance brand is present throughout each host arena and comes alive through the Advance Auto Parts Grinder monster trucks. We are able to capitalize on the sponsorship at a store level through Grinder and other monster truck appearances and through store-based customer events in conjunction with the show. In addition, Advance also sponsors various other grass-root level events intended to positively impact the individual communities we serve, including Latino and other ethnic communities, and to drive awareness and repeated store visits.











AI Segment



AI's business primarily serves the Commercial market, with an emphasis on parts for imported cars, from its store locations located primarily throughout the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States and Florida. In addition, its North American Sales Division serves warehouse distributors and jobbers throughout North America. We believe AI provides a high level of service to its Commercial customers by providing quality parts, unsurpassed customer service and efficient parts delivery. As a result of its extensive sourcing network, AI is able to serve its customers in search of replacement parts for both domestic and imported cars and light trucks with a greater focus on imported parts. The vast majority of AI's product is sold under its own proprietary brand. The AI stores offer approximately30,000SKUs through routine replenishment from its supply chain with access to an additional 100,000 to120,000SKUs through local sourcing networks.



AI has significantly increased its store count since our acquisition of AI in September 2005. AtDecember 31, 2011, we operated202stores under the “Autopart International” trade name in the following states:



LocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresLocationNumber ofStoresAlabama1Maryland13Pennsylvania23Connecticut17Massachusetts32Rhode Island4Delaware1North Carolina1Vermont1Florida44New Hampshire8Virginia11Georgia1New Jersey17Maine4New York24



The following table sets forth information concerning increases in the total number of our AI stores:



20112010200920082007Beginning Stores19415612510887New Stores938321821Stores Closed(1)—(1)(1)—Ending Stores202194156125108



Seasonality



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate.



Team Members



AtFebruary 25, 2012, we employed approximately29,000full-time Team Members and approximately24,000part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of91%of our Team Members employed in store-level operations,6%employed in distribution and3%employed in our corporate offices. We have never experienced any labor disruption and are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our Team Member relations are good.



Intellectual Property



We own a number of trade names and own and have federally registered several service marks and trademarks, including “Advance Auto Parts,” “Advance Discount Auto Parts,” “Western Auto,” “Parts America,” “Autopart International,” “PDQ” and “Service is our best part,” for use in connection with the automotive parts retailing business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks, and we actively defend and enforce them.











Competition



We operate in both the DIY and Commercial markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional retail chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, such as NAPA and Carquest, (iv) independent operators, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based parts providers. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.



Environmental Matters





We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible.  Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our operations to date.





