
10-K
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED FORM 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996

   [  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   Commission File Number 1-7724

                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                39-0622040
   (State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   incorporation or organization)

   10801 Corporate Drive, Kenosha, Wisconsin         53141-1430
   (Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 656-5200

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class                Name of exchange on which registered
   Common stock, $1 par value         New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred stock purchase rights    New York Stock Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
   of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such
   filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [ X]  No [  ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in a definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

   Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   registrant at February 25, 1997: 
                                 $2,401,637,648

   Number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common
   stock at February 25, 1997:
                  Common stock, $1 par value, 60,609,152 shares

   Documents incorporated by reference 
   Portions of the Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
   year ended December 28,1996, are incorporated by reference into Parts I,
   II and IV of this report.

   Portions of the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 14, 1997,
   prepared for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 25,
   1997, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

   
                                                                                                         Page

   PART I
    Item 1.       Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
    Item 2.       Description of Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
    Item 3.       Legal Proceedings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
    Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . 9
    Item 4.1.     Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . 9

   PART II
    Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and 
                  Related Stockholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
    Item  6.      Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
    Item  7.      Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                  Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . .  10
    Item  8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . .  10
    Item  9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants 
                  on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . .  10

   PART III
    Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . .  10
    Item  11.     Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
    Item  12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                  and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
    Item  13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . .  11

   PART IV
    Item  14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and 
                  Reports on Form 8-K  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
    
   Auditor's Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   Signature Pages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   Exhibit Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15

   

   PART I

   Item I: Business

   Snap-on Incorporated (the "Corporation") was incorporated under the laws
   of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the
   state of Delaware in 1930.  Its corporate headquarters are located in
   Kenosha, Wisconsin.

   The Corporation is a leading manufacturer and distributor of high-quality
   hand tools, power tools, tool storage products, diagnostics equipment,
   shop equipment, and diagnostics software and other services, primarily for
   use by professional technicians in vehicle service and industrial
   applications.  Its products are marketed to individual automotive
   technicians, shop owners, specialty service centers, national accounts,
   industrial and government entities, original equipment manufacturers
   ("OEMs"), and other professional tool and equipment users.

   The Corporation has operations throughout the world. Its largest markets
   include the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Japan,
   Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. Products and
   services to support its products and customers are marketed and
   distributed in more than 100 countries.

   In 1996 the Corporation acquired new business operations that expanded its
   product line, distribution channels and geographic reach, including the
   John Bean Company (formerly the Automotive Equipment Service Division of
   FMC Corporation), Automotive Data Solutions ("ADS") and Snap-on Tools/PST
   Africa (Pty.), Ltd. ("Snap-on Tools/PST Africa").

   The John Bean Company is a leading producer of wheel and brake service
   equipment, including wheel aligners and balancers, tire changers, and brake
   lathes.  Its products are sold in North America, Europe and select other
   parts of the world.  ADS is a tele-diagnostics service for automotive
   technicians.  Snap-on Tools/PST Africa is a mobile van distributor of
   tools to professional users in South Africa.

   Subsequent to the close of 1996, the Corporation acquired a 50 percent
   interest in the Mitchell Repair Information business of The Thomson
   Corporation.  The new company is a provider of print and electronic
   versions of vehicle mechanical and electrical system repair information to
   vehicle repair and service establishments throughout North America.  The
   Corporation also acquired Computer Aided Service, Inc. ("CAS"), a 
   developer of repair shop management systems, point of sale systems and
   diagnostics equipment.

   The Corporation conducts its business through four principal operations: 

   Tools

   -  The Transportation business focuses on the development and sale of
   products and services through the Corporation's worldwide dealer direct
   sales programs to professional technicians and shop owners, and through
   distributors in some non-U.S. locations. Trademarks associated with this
   operating group include: Snap-on - hand tools, power tools, tool storage
   units, and certain equipment; Blue Point - hand tools and power tools; and
   Wheeltronic - hoists and lifts for vehicle service shops.  Some
   differentiated equipment products developed by the Corporation's other
   operations are also sold through the distribution channels employed by
   this business.  In addition, to complete the product line, some items are
   purchased from external manufacturers.

   -  The Industrial operation focuses on the development and sale of
   industrial tools and equipment through a direct sales force as well as
   through industrial distributors, and on the development and sale of tools
   for the medical profession. Trademarks associated with this operating
   group include: Snap-on - hand tools and tool storage units; J.H. Williams
   - hand tools; A.T.I. Tools - tools and equipment for aerospace and
   industrial applications; Sioux Tools - power tools; and Snap-on Medical
   Products - tools for orthopedic applications.


   Equipment

   This operation focuses on the development and sale of diagnostics, under-
   car, emissions and safety, and shop equipment; shop management systems;
   and vehicle repair and service information to vehicle service and repair
   shops.  Trademarks associated with this operating group include: Sun
   Electric ("Sun") - diagnostics and service equipment; John Bean - under-
   car and other service equipment; Balco - engine diagnostics, wheel
   balancing and alignment equipment; Mitchell - repair and service
   information and shop managment systems; and Edge Diagnostic Systems -
   software to diagnose vehicle computer systems.

   Financial Services

   Through its Snap-on Credit Corporation subsidiary, Financial Services is
   responsible for certain credit and non-credit services used to support
   sales and to provide dealer financing options.  Credit programs facilitate
   the sale of the Corporation's products and services, especially higher-
   value products such as diagnostics and other shop equipment.

   Products, Services, and Markets Served

   The Corporation offers a broad product line which it divides into two
   groups -- tools and equipment.

   Tools -- Includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products.  Hand
   tools include wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets, pliers, ratchets and other
   similar products, and instruments developed for medical applications and
   for the manufacture and servicing of electronic equipment.  Power tools
   include pneumatic (air), cord-free (battery) and corded (electric) tools
   such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and
   similar products.  Tool storage units include tool chests, roll cabinets
   and other similar products for automotive, industrial, aerospace and other
   storage applications.

   Equipment -- Includes hardware and software solutions for the diagnosis
   and service of automotive and industrial equipment. The primary products
   are: engine and emissions analyzers, air conditioning service equipment,
   brake service equipment, wheel balancing and alignment equipment,
   transmission troubleshooting equipment, vehicle safety testing equipment,
   battery chargers, and lifts and hoists used in repair shops. Also included
   are service and repair information products, on-line diagnostics services,
   systems integration and purchasing facilitation services.

   In the U.S. the Corporation supports the sale of its diagnostics and shop
   equipment by offering training programs to technician customers. These
   programs offer certification in both specific automotive technologies and
   in the application of specific diagnostics equipment developed and
   marketed by the Corporation.

   Competition

   The Corporation competes on the basis of its product quality, service,
   brand awareness and technological innovation. While no one company
   competes with the Corporation across all of its product lines and
   distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product
   categories and/or distribution channels.

   The Corporation believes that it is a leading manufacturer and distributor
   of its products within the markets it serves in the vehicle service
   industry, and that it offers the broadest line of products to the vehicle
   service industry.  The major competitors selling to professional
   technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile
   van channel include MAC Tools (The Stanley Works) and Matco (Danaher
   Corporation).  The Corporation also competes against companies that sell
   through non-mobile-van distributors; these competitors include The Stanley
   Works, Sears, Roebuck and Co., and Strafor Facom.  In the industrial
   sector, major competitors include Armstrong (Danaher Corporation), Cooper
   Industries and Proto (The Stanley Works).  The major competitors selling
   diagnostics and shop equipment to shop owners in the vehicle service and
   repair sector include SPX Corporation and Hunter Engineering.

   Consolidated Sales

   The following table shows the approximate percentage of consolidated sales
   for each of the Corporation's product groups in each of the past three
   years.

   Product Group % of Sales     1996       1995      1994

   Tools
     Hand tools                  40%        40%       38%
     Power tools                  8%        10%        7%
     Tool storage products       10%        10%       11%
                                ---        ---       --- 
                                 58%        60%       56%
   Equipment                     42%        40%       44%
                                ---        ---       --- 
                                100%       100%      100%

   Market Sectors Served -- The Corporation markets and distributes its
   products around the world to professional users primarily in two market
   sectors:  the vehicle service and repair sector, and the industrial
   sector.  For further information on the Corporation's international and
   domestic operations, see Note 14 on page 34 of the Corporation's 1996
   Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

   Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

   The vehicle service and repair sector has two primary customer groups:
   professional technicians, primarily in the vehicle service industry, who
   purchase tools and equipment for themselves, and service and repair shop
   owners (both independent and national chains) and managers who purchase
   equipment for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair
   facility.  Following is a discussion of the characteristics of these
   customers.

   Professional Technicians -- The Corporation markets its products and
   services to professional automotive technicians in the U.S. and select
   other countries, primarily through its dealer van distribution system. It
   provides innovative tool and equipment solutions, as well as technical
   sales support and training, to meet technicians' evolving needs.

   Shop Owners -- The Corporation also serves owners and managers of shops
   where technicians work with tools, diagnostics equipment, repair and
   service information, and shop management products.  These products are
   sold through the Corporation's dealer van distribution system.  In
   addition, certain tools and equipment, differentiated by product features
   and brand, are sold through distributors to shop owners.

   Major challenges for the Corporation and the industry include increased
   competition within the dealer van channel during the past decade and the
   increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles. 

   Industrial Sector

   The Corporation markets its products to a wide variety of industrial
   customers, including industrial maintenance and repair facilities;
   manufacturing and assembly operations; industrial distributors; government
   facilities; schools; and OEMs who require instrumentation or service tools
   and equipment for their products. 

   Major challenges in the industrial market include a highly competitive,
   cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making all of
   their tool purchases through one integrated supplier. The Corporation
   believes it is currently a meaningful participant in the market for
   industrial tools and equipment.

   Distribution Channels and the Franchise Program

   The Corporation serves customers through direct and indirect sales
   channels.

   Distribution to Technicians and Shop Owners 

   Snap-on Dealer Organization -- Sales to technicians and select shop owners
   are conducted weekly at the customer's place of business, primarily
   through the mobile dealer van system.  Dealers purchase the Corporation's
   products at a discount from suggested retail prices and resell them at
   prices of the dealer's choosing.  Although some dealers have sales areas
   defined by other methods, most U.S. dealers are provided a list of places
   of business which serves as the basis of the dealer's sales route.

   Since 1991, all new U.S. dealers, and a majority of existing U.S. dealers,
   have been enrolled as franchisees of the Corporation.  The Corporation
   currently charges initial and ongoing monthly license fees, which do not
   add materially to the Corporation's revenues.  The Corporation makes it
   possible for prospective dealer candidates to work as employee sales
   representatives, at salary plus commission, for up to one year prior to
   making an investment in a franchise.  In addition, through Snap-on
   Financial Services, Inc. and its subsidiary, Snap-on Credit Corporation,
   the Corporation also provides financial assistance for newly converted
   franchise dealers and other new franchise dealers, which could include
   financing for initial license fees, inventory, revolving accounts
   receivable acquisition, equipment, fixtures, other expenses and an initial
   checking account deposit.  At year-end 1996, approximately 86 percent of
   all U.S. dealers were enrolled as franchisees.

   The Corporation services and supports its dealers with an extensive field
   organization of branch offices, and service and distribution centers.  The
   Corporation also provides sales training, customer and dealer financial
   assistance, and marketing and product promotion programs to help maximize
   dealer sales. A National Dealer Advisory Council, composed of and elected
   by dealers, assists the Corporation in identifying and implementing
   enhancements to the franchise program.

   The Corporation has replicated its dealer van method of distribution in
   Australia, Canada, Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands, Japan and the United
   Kingdom.  The Corporation also markets products to additional select
   countries through its subsidiary, Snap-on Tools International, Ltd., which
   sells to foreign distributors under license or contract with the
   Corporation.

   Snap-on/Sun Tech Systems -- Higher-end diagnostics and shop equipment is
   also sold directly to customers through the Snap-on/Sun Tech Systems
   employee sales force ("Tech Specialists").  Tech Specialists are
   compensated primarily on the basis of commission.  In the U.S., Tech
   Specialists sell Snap-on and Sun brand equipment to accounts on their own,
   and assist dealers in the demonstration and sale of Snap-on and Sun brand
   diagnostics equipment.

   The Snap-on/Sun Tech Systems group also sells Snap-on and Sun equipment to
   volume buyers such as retail service centers and OEMs through a national
   account sales organization. In addition, Sun brand equipment is marketed
   through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct
   sales force and distributors in Europe.

   With the 1996 addition of the John Bean Company, the Corporation now
   distributes under-car and other service equipment through a number of
   distributors, located primarily in North America, Europe and select other
   parts of the world.  The majority of these products are sold under the
   John Bean brand and are differentiated from those sold through the dealer
   van channel.

   Distribution to Industrial Customers

   Marketing to industrial and governmental customers is by both direct sales
   through industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and indirect
   sales through independent industrial distributors.  At the end of 1996,
   the Corporation had industrial sales representatives in the United States,
   Canada, Australia, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and some European
   countries, with the U.S. representing the majority of the Corporation's
   total industrial sales.  The sales representatives focus on industrial
   customers who prefer to buy on quality and service, as well as on certain
   OEM accounts.

   Raw Material & Purchased Product

   The Corporation's supply of raw materials (various grades of steel bars
   and sheets) and purchased components are readily available from numerous
   suppliers.

   The majority of 1996 consolidated net sales consisted of products
   manufactured by the Corporation.  The remainder was purchased from outside
   suppliers.  No single supplier's products accounted for a material portion
   of 1996 consolidated net sales.

   Patents and Trademarks

   The Corporation vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to
   protect its inventions and its position in the market. As of December 28,
   1996, the Corporation and its subsidiaries held over 600 patents
   worldwide, with more than 470 pending patent applications.  No sales
   relating to any single patent represent a material portion of the
   Corporation's revenues.

   Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from
   patent protection include engine analyzers, serrated jaw open-end
   wrenches, wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, sealed ratchets,
   electronic torque wrenches, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions sensing
   devices and air conditioning equipment.

   Much of the technology used in the manufacturing of automotive tools and
   equipment is in the public domain.  The Corporation relies primarily on
   trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in
   manufacturing.  Methods and processes are patented when appropriate.

   Trademarks used by the Corporation are of continuing importance to the
   Corporation in the marketplace.  Trademarks have been registered in the
   U.S. and 67 other countries, and additional applications for trademark
   registrations are pending.  The Corporation rigorously polices proper use
   of its trademarks.

   The Corporation's right to manufacture and sell certain products is
   dependent upon licenses from others. These products do not represent a
   material portion of the Corporation's sales. 

   Working Capital

   Because the Corporation's business is not seasonal, and its inventory
   needs are relatively constant, no unusual working capital needs arise
   during the year.

   The Corporation's use of working capital to extend credit to its dealers
   and to purchase installment credit receivables from dealers is discussed
   in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
   Financial Condition," which is found on pages 16 to 19 of the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

   The Corporation does not depend on any single customer, small group of
   customers or government for any material part of its sales, and has no
   significant backlog of orders.

   Environment

   The Corporation complies with applicable environmental control
   requirements in its operations. Compliance has not had a material effect
   upon the Corporation's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
   position.

   Employees

   At the end of 1996, the Corporation employed approximately 10,600 people,
   of whom approximately one-third are engaged in manufacturing activities.

   Item 2: Description of Properties

   The Corporation maintains both leased and owned manufacturing, warehouse,
   distribution and office facilities throughout the world. The Corporation
   believes that its facilities are well maintained and have a capacity
   adequate to meet the Corporation's present and foreseeable future demand. 
   The Corporation's U.S. facilities occupy approximately 4.2 million square
   feet, of which approximately 84 percent is owned.  The Corporation's
   facilities outside the U.S. contain approximately  1.7 million square
   feet, of which approximately 69 percent is owned.

   The Corporation's principal manufacturing locations and distribution
   centers are as follows:

   Location                           Type of property      Owned/Leased
   Conway, Arkansas                   Manufacturing         Owned
   City of Industry, California       Manufacturing         Leased
   Escondido, California              Manufacturing         Owned
   San Jose, California               Manufacturing         Leased
   Sunnyvale, California              Manufacturing         Leased

   Columbus, Georgia                  Manufacturing         Owned
   Crystal Lake, Illinois             Distribution          Owned
                                      and manufacturing
   Mt. Carmel, Illinois               Manufacturing         Owned
   Ottawa, Illinois                   Distribution          Owned
   Algona, Iowa                       Manufacturing         Owned

   Sioux City, Iowa                   Manufacturing         Owned
   Natick, Massachusetts              Manufacturing         Owned
   Olive Branch, Mississippi          Distribution          Leased and owned
   Carson City, Nevada                Distribution          Owned
   Robesonia, Pennsylvania            Distribution          Owned

   Johnson City, Tennessee            Manufacturing         Owned
   Elizabethton, Tennessee            Manufacturing         Owned
   East Troy, Wisconsin               Manufacturing         Owned
   Elkhorn, Wisconsin                 Manufacturing         Owned
   Kenosha, Wisconsin                 Manufacturing         Owned

   Milwaukee, Wisconsin               Manufacturing         Owned
   Sydney, Australia                  Distribution          Leased
   Barbara D'oeste, Brazil            Manufacturing         Owned
   Calgary, Canada                    Distribution          Leased
   Mississagua, Canada                Manufacturing         Leased

   Newmarket, Canada                  Distribution          Owned
                                      and manufacturing
   Kettering, England                 Distribution          Owned
   King's Lynn, England               Distribution          Owned
                                      and manufacturing
   Altmittweida, Germany              Distribution          Owned
   Cork, Ireland                      Manufacturing         Leased
   Shannon, Ireland                   Manufacturing         Leased

   Tokyo, Japan                       Distribution          Leased
   Amsterdam, the Netherlands         Distribution          Owned
   Irun, Spain                        Manufacturing         Owned
   Urretxu, Spain                     Manufacturing         Owned
   Vitoria, Spain                     Distribution          Owned
                                      and manufacturing


   Item 3: Legal Proceedings

   Note 4 to the Financial Statements of the Corporation on pages 25 and
   26 of its 1996 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  None
   of such litigation is material within the meaning of Section 103 of
   Regulation S-K in that such matters individually or in the aggregate
   do not exceed 10% of current assets.  The Corporation intervened in 
   litigation commenced by Tejas Testing Technology One, L.C. and Tejas 
   Testing Technology Two, L.C. (the "Tejas Companies"), as described in 
   Note 13 to the Financial Statements of the Corporation on pages 32 and
   33 of its 1996 Annual Report, which Note is incorporated herein by 
   reference.  Such litigation was commenced on May 2, 1995 and is pending
   in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas, 
   Austin Division, and was also commenced on November 20, 1995 in the 
   345th Judicial District Court of Travis County, Texas.  On February 11,
   1997, Systems Control, Inc. and Systems Control Acquisition Corp., 
   affiliates of the Tejas Companies, commenced litigation against the
   Corporation in the Superior Court of the State of California for the
   County of San Francisco to resist their obligation to indemnify the
   Corporation in full as described in Note 13.

   Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   There was no matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders during the
   fourth quarter of the fiscal year ending December 28, 1996.

   Item 4.1:  Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The executive officers of the Corporation, their ages as of December 28,
   1996, and their current titles and positions held during the last five
   years are listed below.

   Robert A. Cornog  (56) - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
   since July 1991.  A Director since 1982.

   Branko M. Beronja (62) - Senior Vice President - Diagnostics, North
   America since April 1996.  President - North American Operations from
   April 1994 to April 1996, and Vice President - Sales, North America  from
   August 1989 to April 1994.  A Director since January 1997.

   Frederick D. Hay (52) - Senior Vice President - Transportation since
   February 1996.  Prior to joining Snap-on, he was President of the Interior
   Systems and Components Division of UT Automotive, a business unit of
   United Technologies Corporation, from December 1989 to January 1996.

   Donald S. Huml (50) - Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial
   Officer since August 1994.  Prior to joining Snap-on, he was Vice
   President and Chief Financial Officer of Saint-Gobain Corporation from
   December 1990 to August 1994.

   Michael F. Montemurro (48) - Senior Vice President - Financial Services
   and Administration since August 1994.  Senior Vice President - Financial
   Services, Administration and Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 to
   August 1994.  Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer
   from March 1990 to April 1994.

   Jay H. Schnabel (54) - Senior Vice President - Europe since April 1996. 
   Senior Vice President - Diagnostics from April 1994 to April 1996.  Senior
   Vice President - Administration from April 1990 to April 1994. A Director
   since August 1989.

   Gregory D. Johnson  (47) - Controller since April 1992.  Financial
   Controller - Asia/Pacific from May 1991 to April 1992.

   Susan F. Marrinan  (48) - Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
   since January 1992.  Secretary and General Counsel from November 1990 to
   January 1992.  

   There is no family relationship among the executive officers and there has
   been no involvement in legal proceedings during the past five years that
   would be material to the evaluation of the ability or integrity of any of
   the executive officers. Executive officers may be elected by the Board of
   Directors or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer at the regular
   meeting of the Board which follows the Annual Shareholders' Meeting, held
   on the fourth Friday of April each year, and at such other times as new
   positions are created.

   PART II

   Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
   Matters

   At December 28, 1996, the Corporation had 60,785,367 shares of common
   stock outstanding.

   On January 26, 1996, the Corporation's Board of Directors authorized the
   Corporation to repurchase shares of the Corporation's common stock from
   time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. 
   The authority allows the repurchase of up to the number of shares issued
   or delivered from treasury from time to time under the various plans the
   Corporation has in place that call for the issuance of the Corporation's
   common stock.  Currently, those plans include the Corporation's Employee
   Stock Ownership Plan, Franchise Dealer Stock Ownership Plan, Amended and
   Restated 1986 Incentive Stock Program, Amended and Restated Directors'
   1993 Fee Plan, and Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Based
   upon the number of shares issued under plans and programs through February
   25, 1997, as of that date the Corporation had the authority pursuant to
   the Board's action to repurchase 243,503 shares.

   Additional information required by Item 5 is contained on page 40 of the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 6: Selected Financial Data

   The information required by Item 6 is contained on pages 36 and 37 of the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
   Results of Operations

   The information required by Item 7 is contained on pages 16 to 19 of the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The information required by Item 8 is contained on pages 20 to 34 of the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
   Financial Disclosure

   None.

   PART III

   Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The identification of the Corporation's directors as required by Item 10
   is contained in the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 14, 1997,
   and is incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.  With
   respect to information about the Corporation's executive officers, see
   caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of
   this report.

   The disclosure of late filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
   contained on page 11 of the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 14,
   1997, and is incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 11: Executive Compensation

   The information required by Item 11 is contained on pages 7 to 9 of the
   Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 14, 1997, and is incorporated
   herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The information required by Item 12 is contained on page 5 of the
   Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 14, 1997, and is incorporated
   herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   None.

   PART IV

   Item 14: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K 

   Item 14(A):  Document List

   1.  List of Financial Statements

   The following consolidated financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated,
   and the Auditors' Report thereon, each included in the 1996 Annual Report
   of the Corporation to its shareholders for the year ended December 28,
   1996, are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995.

   Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 28, 1996,
   December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994. 

   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
   December 28, 1996, December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994.

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 28,
   1996, December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994.

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   2.  Financial Statement Schedule

   The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Snap-on
   Incorporated is included in Item 14(d) as a separate section of this
   report.

   Schedule II     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     Page 17

   All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
   accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
   inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted, or are included in the
   Corporation's 1996 Annual Report in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
   Statements for the years ended December 28, 1996, December 30, 1995 and
   December 31, 1994, which are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this
   report.


   3.  List of Exhibits

   The exhibits filed with or incorporated by reference in this report are as
   specified in the exhibit index.


   Item 14(B):  Reports on Form 8-K

   No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
   covered by this report.

   
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

   We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the financial statements included in Snap-on Incorporated's (the
   "Corporation") Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference in
   this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated January 27, 1997. 
   Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
   statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed on page 17 is the
   responsibility of the Corporation's management and is presented for
   purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
   and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been
   subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
   financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material
   respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation
   to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                 /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                 ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   Chicago, Illinois
   January 27, 1997

   
                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


   As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
   of our reports included (or incorporated by reference) in this Form 10-K,
   into the Corporation's previously filed Registration Statement File Nos.
   2-53663, 2-53578, 33-7471, 33-22417, 33-37924, 33-39660, 33-57898, 33-
   55607, 33-58939, 33-58943, 333-14769, 333-21277 and 333-21285.


                                 /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                 ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   Chicago, Illinois
   March 27, 1997

   
                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the Corporation has duly caused this report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

   SNAP-ON INCORPORATED    

   By: /s/ R. A. Cornog                             Date:  March 27, 1997
       R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
       President and Chief Executive Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
   Corporation and in the capacities as indicated.

       /s/ R. A. Cornog                             Date:  March 27, 1997   
       R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
       President and Chief Executive Officer

       /s/ D. S. Huml                               Date:  March 27, 1997   
       D. S. Huml, Principal Financial Officer,
       and Senior Vice President - Finance

       /s/ G. D. Johnson                            Date:  March 27, 1997  
       G. D. Johnson, Principal Accounting Officer,
       and Controller

                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
   Corporation and in the capacities as indicated.

   By: /s/ B. M. Beronja                            Date:  March 27, 1997     
       B. M. Beronja, Director

   By: /s/ D. W. Brinckman                          Date:  March 27, 1997  
       D. W. Brinckman, Director

   By: /s/ B. S. Chelberg                           Date:  March 27, 1997  
       B. S. Chelberg, Director

   By: /s/ R. J. Decyk                              Date:  March 27, 1997  
       R. J. Decyk, Director

   By: /s/ R. F. Farley                             Date:  March 27, 1997  
       R. F. Farley, Director

   By: /s/ L. A. Hadley                             Date:  March 27, 1997 
        L. A. Hadley, Director

   By: /s/ A. L. Kelly                              Date:  March 27, 1997  
       A. L. Kelly, Director

   By: /s/ G. W. Mead                               Date:  March 27, 1997  
       G. W. Mead, Director

   By: /s/ E. H. Rensi                              Date:  March 27, 1997  
       E. H. Rensi, Director

   By: /s/ J. H. Schnabel                           Date:  March 27, 1997  
       J. H. Schnabel, Director

   

          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                            Balance of 
                Balance at  Subsidiary  Charged to                 Balance
                beginning   at time of   costs and                 at end
   Description   of year    acquisition  expenses   Deductions(1)  of year

  Allowance for 
  doubtful accounts

  Year ended
  December 28,
   1996        $14,650,458   $296,140   $13,611,414  $11,655,431  $16,902,581

  Year ended
  December 30,
   1995        $13,180,862   $205,414   $12,999,732  $11,735,550  $14,650,458

  Year ended
  December 31,
   1994        $14,946,208   $ 96,355   $ 8,652,343  $10,514,044  $13,180,862


    (1) This amount represents write-offs of bad debts.

   
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Item 14(c):  Exhibits

   (3)  (a)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
             effective as of March 10, 1995 (incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit (3)(a) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (Commission File No.
             1-7724))

        (b)  Bylaws of the Corporation, effective as of January 26, 1996

   (4)  (a)  Rights Agreement dated as of October 23, 1987 between the
             Corporation and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Rights Agent
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Corporation's
             Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated October 26, 1987
             (Commission File No. 1-7724))

        (b)  Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of May 21, 1992
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Corporation's
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 4, 1992 (Commission File
             No. 1-7724))

        (c)  Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of January 28, 1994
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Corporation's
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 28, 1994 (Commission
             File No. 1-7724))

        (d)  Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of June 28, 1996
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Corporation's
             Current Report on Form 8-A dated June 28, 1996 (Commission File
             No. 1-7724))

        The Corporation and its subsidiaries have no long-term debt
        agreement for which the related outstanding debt exceeds 10% of
        consolidated total assets as of December 28, 1996.  Copies of
        debt instruments for which the related debt is less than 10% of
        consolidated total assets will be furnished to the Commission
        upon request.   

   (10)  Material Contracts 

        (a)  Amended and Restated Snap-on Incorporated 1986 Incentive Stock
             Plan*

        (b)  Form of Restated Senior Officer Agreement between the
             Corporation and each of Robert A. Cornog, Branko M. Beronja,
             Frederick D. Hay, Donald S. Huml, Michael F. Montemurro and Jay
             H. Schnabel (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the
             Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

        (c)  Form of Restated Executive Agreement between the Corporation and
             each of Richard V. Caskey, Dan G. Craighead, Dale F. Elliott,
             Gregory D. Johnson, Nicholas L. Loffredo, Denis J. Loverine,
             Susan F. Marrinan, Lawrence G. Panatera, and William R. Whyte
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the
             Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

        (d)  Indemnification Agreement for Directors (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit B to the Corporation's Proxy Statement
             dated March 23, 1990 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

        (e)  Amended and Restated Snap-on Incorporated Directors' 1993 Fee
             Plan*

        (f)  Snap-on Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan*

        (g)  Snap-on Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan for Officers
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the
             Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

        (h)  Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of October 6,
             1995, among Snap-on Credit Corporation, as Seller, Corporate
             Asset Funding Company, Inc., as Investor, and Citicorp North
             America, Inc., individually and as Agent (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to the Corporation's Quarterly
             Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1996
             (Commission File No. 1-7724))

        (i)  Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of October 6,
             1995, among Snap-on Credit Corporation, as Seller, the banks set
             forth on the signature pages thereof, and Citicorp North
             America, Inc., individually and as Agent (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the Corporation's Quarterly
             Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1996
             (Commission File No. 1-7724))

        (j)  Support Agreement, dated as of October 6, 1995, by Snap-on
             Incorporated in favor of Corporate Asset Funding Company, Inc.,
             Citibank, N.A. and Citicorp North America, Inc. (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report
             on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
             (Commission File No. 1-7724))


   (13) Annual Report to Shareholders
   (21) Subsidiaries of the Corporation
   (23) Consent of Independent Public Accountants (included with Report of
        Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule)
   (27) Financial Data Schedule

   * Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement


