10-K


d58704d10k.htm

10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 2, 2016, or

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-7724

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

39-0622040

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

2801 80

th

Street, Kenosha,
Wisconsin


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip code)

(262) 656-5200

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each
class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.  Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation

S-K

(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in a definitive proxy or information statement incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form

10-K

or any amendment to this Form

10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

¨

Non-accelerated filer

¨

Smaller reporting
company

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell
company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes

¨

No

x

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates (excludes 450,073 shares held by directors and
executive officers) computed by reference to the price ($160.79) at which common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (July 4, 2015) was $9.3 billion.

The number of shares of Common Stock ($1.00 par value) of the registrant outstanding as of February 5, 2016, was
58,092,025 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information that will be set forth in Snap-on’s Proxy
Statement, which is expected to first be mailed to shareholders on or about March 11, 2016, prepared for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 28, 2016.




SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


PART I

Safe Harbor

Statements in this document that are not historical facts, including
statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words “expects,” “plans,” “targets,” “estimates,” “believes,” “anticipates,” or similar words that reference

Snap-on

Incorporated (“Snap-on” or “the company”) or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-on’s or management’s future
outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that any forward-looking statements included in this document that
are based upon assumptions and estimates were developed by management in good faith and are subject to risks, uncertainties or other factors that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in
any such statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results or regarded as a representation by the company or its management that the projected results will be achieved. For those
forward-looking statements, Snap-on cautions the reader that numerous important factors, such as those listed below, as well as those factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those in “Item 1A: Risk
Factors,” could affect the company’s actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on.

These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, statements, assumptions and projections
generally, and the timing and progress with which Snap-on can attain value through its Snap-on Value Creation Processes, including its ability to realize efficiencies and savings from its rapid continuous improvement and other cost reduction
initiatives, improve workforce productivity, achieve improvements in the company’s manufacturing footprint and greater efficiencies in its supply chain, and enhance machine maintenance, plant productivity and manufacturing line set-up and
change-over practices, any or all of which could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and/or lost revenues. These risks also include uncertainties related to

Snap-on’s

capability to implement
future strategies with respect to its existing businesses, its ability to refine its brand and franchise strategies, retain and attract franchisees, further enhance service and value to franchisees and thereby help improve their sales and
profitability, introduce successful new products, successfully pursue, complete and integrate acquisitions, as well as its ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, planned facility closures or other labor interruptions, the
effects of external negative factors, including adverse developments in world financial markets, weakness in certain areas of the global economy, and significant changes in the current competitive environment, inflation, interest rates and other
monetary and market fluctuations, changes in tax rates and regulations, and the impact of energy and raw material supply and pricing, including steel and gasoline, the amount, rate and growth of

Snap-on’s

general and administrative expenses, including health care and postretirement costs (resulting from, among other matters, U.S. health care legislation and its implementation), continuing and potentially increasing required contributions to pension
and postretirement plans, the impacts of non-strategic business and/or product line rationalizations, and the effects on business as a result of new legislation, regulations or government-related developments or issues, risks associated with data
security and technological systems and protections, and other world or local events outside

Snap-on’s

control, including terrorist disruptions.

Snap-on

disclaims
any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as required by law.

In addition,
investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) prescribe when a company should reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a
given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.

Fiscal Year

Snap-on’s
fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this document to “fiscal 2015” or “2015” refer to the fiscal year ended January 2, 2016; references to
“fiscal 2014” or “2014” refer to the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015; and references to “fiscal 2013” or “2013” refer to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013. Snap-on’s 2015 and 2013 fiscal
years each contained 52 weeks of operating results; Snap-on’s 2014 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results, with the extra week occurring in the fourth quarter. References in this document to 2015, 2014 and 2013 year end refer to
January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013, respectively.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Item 1: Business

Snap-on was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1930. Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools,
tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture,
construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education.

Snap-on

also derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its
products and support its franchise business.

Snap-on markets its products and brands through multiple sales distribution
channels in more than 130 countries.

Snap-on’s

largest geographic markets include the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, France, Japan, Spain, Brazil, Sweden, Italy, China,
Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Denmark, India, Norway, Finland, Indonesia, Belgium and Poland. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Snap-on
originated the mobile tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

The company began with the development of
the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where fully stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. Snap-on now
defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach “beyond the garage” to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. The company’s “coherent
growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in its legacy automotive market, as well as in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and
penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its “Value Creation Processes” – a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of
(i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement (“RCI”). Snap-on’s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across multiple
businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on’s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings generated
from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations.

Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair
technicians who purchase products through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment
manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”). Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers who
require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing for business loans and vehicle leases.

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions
and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and
(iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government and
technical education market segments (collectively, “critical industries”), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians
through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of
independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United
States, and Snap-on’s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues,
including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable
assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All
significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

Recent Acquisitions

On July 27, 2015, Snap-on acquired the assets of Ecotechnics S.p.A. (“Ecotechnics”) for a cash purchase
price of $11.8 million. Ecotechnics designs and manufactures vehicle air conditioning service equipment for OEM dealerships and the automotive aftermarket worldwide. The acquisition of the Ecotechnics product line complemented and increased
Snap-on’s existing equipment product offering for OEM dealerships and independent automotive repair shops, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities, and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop
owners and managers.

On May 28, 2014, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of Pro-Cut International, Inc.
(“Pro-Cut”) for a cash purchase price of $41.3 million. Pro-Cut designs, manufactures and distributes on-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories used in brake servicing by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of the
Pro-Cut product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners
and managers.

On May 13, 2013, Snap-on acquired Challenger Lifts, Inc. (“Challenger”) for a cash purchase
price of $38.2 million. Challenger designs, manufactures and distributes a comprehensive line of vehicle lifts and accessories to a diverse customer base in the automotive repair sector. The acquisition of the Challenger vehicle lift
product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and
managers.

For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Ecotechnics, Pro-Cut and Challenger have
been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the respective acquisition dates. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of these acquisitions, both individually and collectively, were
neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

Information Available on the
Company’s Website

Additional information regarding Snap-on and its products is available on the company’s
website at

www.snapon.com

. Snap-on is not including the information contained on its website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Snap-on’s
Annual Reports on Form

10-K,

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no
charge, other than an investor’s own internet access charges, through the Investor Information section of the company’s website at

www.snapon.com

.

Snap-on

makes such material available on its
website as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained
free of charge through the SEC’s website at

www.sec.gov

. The SEC’s Public Reference Room can be contacted at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling 1-800-732-0330. In addition, Snap-on’s
(i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Organization and Executive Compensation Committees of the company’s Board of Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics are available on the company’s website. Snap-on will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on
the company’s website at

www.snapon.com

.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Products and Services

Tools, Diagnostics and Repair Information, and Equipment

Snap-on
offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as
it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:

The

tools

product category includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage products. Hand tools
include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air),
hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers,
Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The
majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.

The

diagnostics and repair information

product category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts
catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track
performance.

The

equipment

product category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of vehicles and
industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange
equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Snap-on supports
the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by
Snap-on.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are
well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Financial Services

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from
franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools, including tool storage, and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business loans and
vehicle leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the customer’s election. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors including financial
condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, credit bureau information and proprietary credit models.

Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries in those markets where

Snap-on

has franchise operations. Financing
revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the contracts, with interest computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on markets and distributes its products and
related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle service and repair sector
has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for themselves; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent
repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet
technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine.

Snap-on

also provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management
products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including tools, consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their
dealership equipment programs.

The vehicle service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological
change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle
service and repair market sector.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities;
various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational and technical schools; aviation and aerospace operations; OEM and service and repair customers; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and
power generation, equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for
their product and business needs.

The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to
an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries. Through its experienced and dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” develop unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide
that leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

The industrial sector is characterized by a
highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making many of their tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment
market sector.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Distribution Channels

Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The
following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van
Channel

In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted
through

Snap-on’s

mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the
customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can easily be transported in a van or trailer and
demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees purchase

Snap-on’s

products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are
provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route. Snap-on’s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises.

Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial
and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $12.7 million, $12.1 million and $11.9 million in fiscal 2015,
2014 and 2013, respectively.

Snap-on

also has a company-owned route program that is
designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow

Snap-on

to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2015 year end, company-owned routes comprised approximately 3% of the total route population; Snap-on
may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future.

In addition to its mobile van channel in
the United States, Snap-on has replicated its U.S. franchise distribution model in certain other countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of
these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide route count was
approximately 4,800, including approximately 3,500 routes in the United States.

Through SOC, financing is available to U.S.
franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise. In many international markets,

Snap-on

offers a variety of
financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through

Snap-on

or another financing entity is solely at the
customer’s election.

Snap-on

supports its franchisees with a field organization
of regional offices, franchise performance teams, customer care centers and distribution centers.

Snap-on

also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as
customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. National Franchise Advisory Councils in the United States, the United
Kingdom, Canada and Australia, composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist

Snap-on

in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

Company Direct Sales

A
significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk, Challenger and Pro-Cut brands, diagnostic products under the

Snap-on

brand and information products
under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and
franchised service centers),

Snap-on

believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostic and equipment products and

services. Snap-on

also sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Snap-on

brand tools and equipment are marketed
to industrial and governmental customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial distributors. Outside of the United States, industrial sales are also conducted through other
independent distributors. Sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and integrated solutions. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales representatives in the United States, Australia,
Canada, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico and various European, Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern and African countries, with the United States representing the majority of

Snap-on’s

total industrial sales.

Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, heavy duty, agriculture, power equipment
and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships, fleets and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence, Snap-on has
deployed focused business teams globally.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items from

Snap-on

and resell them to end users. Hand tools sold
under the BAHCO, Fish and Hook, Irimo, Lindström and Williams brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world. Wheel service and other vehicle
service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Challenger, Pro-Cut, Cartec, Blackhawk and Ecotechnics. Diagnostic and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and
Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the

Snap-on,

Sun, BAHCO and Blue-Point brands.

E-commerce

Snap-on

offers current
and prospective customers online access to research and purchase products through its public website at

www.snapon.com

. The site features an online catalog of

Snap-on

hand tools, power tools, tool
storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.

E-commerce

and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve
productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service

Snap-on

has with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’s e-commerce distribution channel were not
significant in any of the last three years.

Competition

Snap-on

competes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation
and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While Snap-on does not believe that any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in
one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.

Snap-on

believes it is a
leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool storage, diagnostic and equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various
competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel;

Snap-on

also competes with companies that sell tools and equipment
to vehicle service and repair technicians online and through retail stores, vehicle parts supply outlets and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors,
including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary
electronic parts catalogs and diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.

Raw
Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily
available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any
significant impact in 2016 from steel pricing or availability issues.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

Snap-on

vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property
and position in its markets. As of 2015 year end,

Snap-on

and its subsidiaries held approximately 700 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 1,550 active and pending patents outside
of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of

Snap-on’s

revenues in any of the last three years.

Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers,
tire changers, vehicle lifts, tool storage, tool control, test lanes, brake lathes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain.

Snap-on

relies primarily on trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when
appropriate.

Trademarks used by

Snap-on

are of continuing importance to

Snap-on

in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and more than 120 other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending.

Snap-on

vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.

Snap-on’s

right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however,
these products under license do not represent a material portion of

Snap-on’s

net sales.

Domain names have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including

Snap-on.

Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or
even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the

Snap-on

name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.

Snap-on

strategically licenses the

Snap-on

brand to
carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

Environmental

Snap-on

is subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. At

Snap-on,

these environmental liabilities are managed through the

Snap-on

Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon
continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-on

believes that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental matters through EH &
SMS have not had, and

Snap-on

does not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon

Snap-on’s

capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position.

Employees

Snap-on employed approximately 11,500 people at the end of January 2016; Snap-on employed approximately 11,400 people at the end of January 2015.

Approximately 2,600 employees, or 23% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions and/or covered under collective
bargaining agreements. The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire over the next five years approximates 1,400 employees in 2016, 700 employees in 2017, and 500 employees in 2018; there are no contracts currently scheduled to expire
in 2019 or 2020. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

There can be no assurance that these and other future contracts with

Snap-on’s

unions will be renegotiated upon terms acceptable to

Snap-on.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Working Capital

Most of

Snap-on’s

businesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant. Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of orders at 2015
year end. In recent years, Snap-on has been using its working capital to fund, in part, the continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Snap-on’s liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.”

As of 2015 year end, neither

Snap-on

nor any of its segments
depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part of its revenues.

Item 1A: Risk Factors

In evaluating the company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the related notes. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect the company’s business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the
company’s common stock.

Economic conditions and world events could affect our operating results.

We, our franchisees and our customers, may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions, including conditions that may
particularly impact specific regions. These conditions may result in reduced consumer and investor confidence, instability in the credit and financial markets, volatile corporate profits, and reduced business and consumer spending. We, our
franchisees and our customers, and the economy as a whole, also may be affected by future world or local events outside our control, such as acts of terrorism, developments in the war on terrorism, conflicts in international situations and natural
disasters, as well as government-related developments or issues. These factors may affect our results of operations by reducing our sales, margins and/or net earnings as a result of a slowdown in customer orders or order cancellations, impact the
availability of raw materials and/or the supply chain, and could potentially lead to future impairment of our intangible assets. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put pressure on
economic conditions abroad. Unstable political, social and economic conditions may make it difficult for our franchisees, customers, suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.

Raw material and energy price
fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could adversely affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could adversely affect our results of operations.

The principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive, price-sensitive markets.
To meet

Snap-on’s

high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity types of alloys. These raw
materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply, particularly in the event of mill shutdowns or production cut backs. As some steel alloys require
specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. Additionally, unexpected price increases for raw materials could result in higher prices to our
customers or an erosion of the margins on our products.

We believe our ability to sell our products is also dependent on the
number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. These factors affect the frequency, type and amount of service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand for the
number of technicians, the prosperity of technicians and, consequently, the demand technicians have for our tools, other products and services, and the value technicians place on those products and services. The use of other methods of
transportation, including more frequent use of public transportation, could result in a decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles. A decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our
products.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


We use various energy sources to transport, produce and distribute products, and some of
our products have components that are petroleum based. Petroleum and energy prices have periodically increased significantly over short periods of time; further volatility and changes may be caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency
fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our operating costs and the costs of our materials, and we may not be able to increase our prices enough to
offset these costs. Higher prices also may reduce the level of future customer orders and our profitability.

The performance of

Snap-on’s

mobile tool distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees.

Approximately 44% of our consolidated revenues in 2015 were generated by the

Snap-on

Tools Group, which consists of

Snap-on’s

business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel.

Snap-on’s

success is dependent on its relationships with franchisees, individually and collectively, as they are the primary sales and service link between the company and vehicle service and repair
technicians, who are an important class of end users for

Snap-on’s

products and services. If our franchisees are not successful, or if we do not maintain an effective relationship with our franchisees,
the delivery of products, the collection of receivables and/or our relationship with end users could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In addition, if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with franchisees, Snap-on or the franchisees may choose to terminate
the relationship, which may result in (i) open routes, in which end-user customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation resulting from termination; (iii) reduced collections or increased write-offs of franchisee
receivables owed to

Snap-on;

and/or (iv) reduced collections or increased write-offs of finance and contract receivables.

New and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

Increased legislative and regulatory activity and compliance burdens, including those associated with sales to our government, military
and defense contractor customers, as well as a more stringent manner in which they are applied, could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. For example, the Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”), which continues to be
phased in, significantly affects the provision of both health care services and benefits in the United States; the ACA may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various
other aspects of our business. The ACA did not have a material impact on our fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013 financial results; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the ACA on our health care benefit costs.

Financial services businesses of all kinds are subject to increasing regulation and enforcement. In addition to potentially increasing
the costs of doing business due to compliance obligations, new laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, as well as the enforcement thereof, may affect the relationships between creditors and debtors, inhibit the rights of
creditors to collect amounts owed to them, expand liability for certain actions or inactions, or limit the types of financial products or services offered, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could also result in penalties and damage to our reputation, and/or the incurrence of remediation costs.

These developments, and other potential future legislation and regulations, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment,
including the growing international regulation of privacy rights, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, reputation,
results of operations and financial condition, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen.

Exposure to credit risks of customers and
resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect operating results and financial condition.

A decline in industry and/or economic conditions could have the potential to weaken the financial position of some of our customers. If circumstances surrounding our customers’ ability to repay their
credit obligations were to deteriorate and result in the write-down or write-off of such receivables, it would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Our inability to provide acceptable financing alternatives to end-user customers and
franchisees could adversely impact our operating results.

An integral component of our business and profitability is our
ability to offer competitive financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees. The lack of our ability to offer such alternatives or obtain capital resources or other financing to support our receivables on terms that we believe are
attractive, whether resulting from the state of the financial markets, our own operating performance, or other factors, would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Adverse fluctuations in interest rates and/or our ability
to provide competitive financing programs could also have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.

Failure to
achieve expected investment returns on pension plan assets, as well as changes in interest rates or plan demographics, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Snap-on

sponsors various defined benefit pension plans (the “pension plans”). The
assets of the pension plans are broadly diversified in an attempt to mitigate the risk of a large loss. The assets are invested in equity securities, debt securities, hedge funds, real estate and other real assets, insurance contracts, and cash
and cash equivalents. Required funding for the company’s domestic defined benefit pension plans is determined in accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”); foreign
defined benefit pension plans are funded in accordance with local statutes or practice. Additional contributions to enhance the funded status of the pension plans can be made at the company’s discretion. However, there can be no
assurance that the value of the pension plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of such plans. In addition, during periods of adverse investment market conditions
and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could reduce our financial flexibility. Changes in plan demographics, including an increase in the number of retirements or
changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the company’s pension plans.

Our pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates have added, and may further add, volatility to our pension plan
obligations. In periods of declining market interest rates, our pension plan obligations generally increase; in periods of increasing market interest rates, our pension plan obligations generally decrease. While our plan assets are broadly
diversified, there are inherent market risks associated with investments; if adverse market conditions occur, our plan assets could incur significant or material losses. Since we may need to make additional contributions to address changes in
obligations and/or a loss in plan assets, the combination of declining market interest rates, past or future plan asset investment losses, and/or changes in plan demographics could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.

The company’s pension plan expense is comprised of the following factors: (i) service cost;
(ii) interest on projected benefit obligations; (iii) the expected return on plan assets; (iv) the amortization of prior service costs and credits; (v) the effects of actuarial gains and losses; and
(vi) settlement/curtailment costs, when applicable. The accounting for pensions involves the estimation of a number of factors that are highly uncertain. Certain factors, such as the interest on projected benefit obligations and the
expected return on pension plan assets, are impacted by changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. A significant decrease in market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value of pension plan assets would increase net pension
expense and may adversely affect the company’s future results of operations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company’s pension plans.

Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets could negatively impact the availability of credit that we and our customers need to operate
our businesses.

We depend upon the availability of credit to operate our business, including the financing of receivables
from end-user customers that are originated by our financial services businesses. Our end-user customers, franchisees and suppliers also require access to credit for their businesses. At times in recent years, world financial markets have been
unstable and subject to uncertainty. Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets, or unfavorable changes in

Snap-on’s

credit rating, could negatively impact the availability of future
financing and the terms on which it might be available to

Snap-on,

its end-user customers, franchisees and suppliers. Inability to access credit or capital markets, or a deterioration in the terms on which
financing might be available, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Increasing our financial leverage could affect our operations and profitability.

The maximum available credit under our multi-currency revolving credit facility is $700 million. The company’s leverage ratio may
affect both our availability of additional capital resources as well as our operations in several ways, including:

•

The terms on which credit may be available to us could be less attractive, both in the economic terms of the credit and the covenants stipulated by
the credit terms;

•

The possible lack of availability of additional credit;

•

The potential for higher levels of interest expense to service or maintain our outstanding debt;

•

The possibility of additional borrowings in the future to repay our indebtedness when it comes due; and

•

The possible diversion of capital resources from other uses.

While we believe we will have the ability to service our debt and obtain additional resources in the future if and when needed, that will
depend upon our results of operations and financial position at the time, the then-current state of the credit and financial markets, and other factors that may be beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot give assurances that credit will be
available on terms that we consider attractive, or at all, if and when necessary or beneficial to us.

Data security and
information technology infrastructure and security are critical to supporting business objectives; failure of our systems to operate effectively could adversely affect our business and reputation.

We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives and to protect sensitive information, and
continually invest in improving such systems. Problems that impair or compromise this infrastructure, including due to natural disasters, power outages, major network failures, security breaches or malicious attacks, or during system upgrades and/or
new system implementations, could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, account for and collect receivables, protect sensitive data of the company, our customers, our suppliers and business
partners, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. Any such events, if significant, could cause us to lose customers and/or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate, including as a result of legal or
regulatory claims or proceedings, and could also damage our reputation. While we have taken steps to maintain adequate data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing security technologies, internal controls, network and data
center resiliency, and redundancy and recovery processes, as well as by securing insurance, these measures may be inadequate.

In association with initiatives to better integrate business units, rationalize operating footprint and improve responsiveness to
franchisees and customers,

Snap-on

is continually replacing and enhancing its global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) management information systems. As we integrate, implement and deploy new information
technology processes and a common information infrastructure across our global operations, we could experience disruptions in our business that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Failure to maintain effective distribution of products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross margin and profitability.

We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services. Successfully managing the interaction of our
distribution efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks, costs and gross margins, our failure to implement the most
advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.

Risks associated with the disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or competitive position.

We manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing
facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, facility consolidation or closure actions, lack of raw material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, use and storage of
hazardous materials or other events), or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



The inability to continue to introduce new products that respond to customer needs
and achieve market acceptance could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability.

Sales from new products represent
a significant portion of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete effectively unless we continue to enhance existing products or introduce new products to
the marketplace in a timely manner. Product improvements and new product introductions require significant financial and other resources, including significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product and
manufacturing process levels. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be more effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop
may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund
advertising, marketing, promotional programs and research and development.

The global tool, equipment, and diagnostics and repair
information industries are competitive.

We face strong competition in all of our market segments. Price competition in
our various industries is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In general, as a manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services, the expectations of Snap-on’s customers and its franchisees are
high and continue to increase. Any inability to maintain customer satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and reputation and could result in a lessening of our ability to command premium pricing. We expect that the level of
competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase market share or profitability.

Product
liability claims and litigation could affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The products that we design and/or manufacture, and/or the services we provide, can lead to product liability claims or other legal claims being filed against us. To the extent that plaintiffs are
successful in showing that a defect in a product’s design, manufacture or warnings led to personal injury or property damage, or that our provision of services resulted in similar injury or damage, we may be subject to claims for damages.
Although we are insured for damages above a certain amount, we bear the costs and expenses associated with defending claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and are responsible for damages below the insurance retention amount. In addition to claims
concerning individual products, as a manufacturer, we can be subject to costs, potential negative publicity and lawsuits related to product recalls, which could adversely impact our results and damage our reputation.

Legal disputes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

From time to time we are subject to legal disputes that are being litigated and/or settled in the ordinary course of business. Disputes
or future lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations. Additionally, negative developments with respect to legal disputes and the costs incurred in defending ourselves could have an
adverse impact on the company and its reputation. Adverse outcomes or settlements could also require us to pay damages, potentially in excess of amounts reserved, or incur liability for other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our
business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Failure to adequately protect intellectual property could
adversely affect our business.

Intellectual property rights are an important and integral component of our business. We
attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Adverse determinations in a
judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our
intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Foreign operations are subject to political, economic, currency exchange and other
risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Approximately
31% of our revenues in 2015 were generated outside of the United States. Future growth rates and success of our business depends in large part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets and critical
industries. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, such as acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions,
changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries, as well as the exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws in
various countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, currency volatility, transportation delays or interruptions, sovereign debt uncertainties and difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights, as well as
natural disasters. Should the economic environment in our non-U.S. markets deteriorate from current levels, our results of operations and financial position could be materially impacted, including as a result of the effects of potential impairment
write-downs of goodwill and/or other intangible assets related to these businesses.

The reporting currency for Snap-on’s
consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the company’s assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In preparing

Snap-on’s

Consolidated Financial Statements, those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Increases or decreases in exchange rates
between the U.S. dollar and other currencies affect the U.S. dollar value of those items, as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the
company’s financial condition and results of operations.

We are also affected by changes in inflation rates and interest
rates. Additionally, cash generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to repatriate to the United States in a tax-efficient manner. Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks and challenges, such as the need to staff
and manage diverse workforces, respond to the needs of multiple national and international marketplaces, and differing business climates and cultures in various countries.

The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely impact our future financial condition and results of operations.

We have a substantial amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, almost all of which are booked in the Commercial &
Industrial Group and in the Repair Systems & Information Group. We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangibles annually or at any time when events occur that could impact the value of our business
segments. Our determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ fair market value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant and
long-term adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated competition, the loss of key customers, and/or changes in technology or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could
substantially impact our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated net worth and shareholders’ equity. Should the economic environment in these markets deteriorate, our results of operations and financial position could be materially
impacted, including as a result of the effects of potential impairment write-downs of goodwill and/or other intangible assets related to these businesses.

Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.

Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate,
which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety
regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we may incur
costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices. Legislation has been proposed, and governmental regulatory action has been both proposed and taken, that may significantly
impact environmental compliance in the United States; these actions could increase our costs of production by raising the cost of energy as well as by further restricting emissions or other processes that we currently use in our operations. We
cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to
interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may
differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue and/or profitability.

Snap-on’s success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team and other key employees. Their
skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results.
In addition, transitions of important responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.

The steps taken to restructure operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses and achieve greater
efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business.

We have taken steps in the past, and expect to take additional
steps in the future, intended to improve customer service and drive further efficiencies and reduce costs, some of which could be disruptive to our business. These actions, collectively across our operating groups, are focused on the following:

•

Continuing to invest in initiatives focused on building a strong sales and operating presence in emerging growth markets;

•

Continuing to enhance service and value to our franchisees and customers;

•

Continuing to implement efficiency and productivity initiatives throughout the company to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs;

•

Continuing on the company’s existing path to improve and transform global manufacturing and the supply chain into a market-demand-based
replenishment system with lower costs;

•

Continuing to invest in developing and marketing new, innovative, higher-value-added products and advanced technologies;

•

Extending our products and services into additional and/or adjacent markets or to new customers; and

•

Continuing to provide financing for, and grow our portfolio of, receivables within our financial services businesses.

A failure to succeed in the implementation of any or all of these actions could result in an inability to achieve our financial goals and
could be disruptive to the business.

In addition, any future reductions to headcount and other cost reduction measures may
result in the loss of technical expertise and could adversely affect our research and development efforts as well as our ability to meet product development schedules. Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the recording of charges
for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs or other charges relating to the consolidation or closure of facilities. If we were to incur a substantial charge to further these efforts, our earnings per share would be
adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively manage our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


We may not successfully integrate businesses we acquire, which could have an adverse
impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The pursuit of growth through
acquisitions, including participation in joint ventures, involves significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risks include:

•

Loss of the acquired businesses’ customers;

•

Inability to integrate successfully the acquired businesses’ operations;

•

Inability to coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the acquired businesses;

•

Difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;

•

Failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain operating margins;

•

Strain on our personnel, systems and resources, and diversion of attention from other priorities;

•

Incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense;

•

The dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities;

•

Unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses; and

•

Large write-offs or write-downs, or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.

Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2: Properties

Snap-on

maintains leased and owned manufacturing (including software products), warehouse,
distribution, research and development and office facilities throughout the world.

Snap-on

believes that its facilities currently in use are suitable and have adequate capacity to meet its present and
foreseeable future demand. Snap-on’s facilities in the United States occupy approximately 3.3 million square feet, of which 72% is owned, including its corporate and general office facility located in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

Snap-on’s

facilities outside the United States occupy approximately 3.9 million square feet, of which approximately 74% is owned. Certain

Snap-on

facilities are
leased through operating and capital lease agreements. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the company’s operating and capital leases.

Snap-on

management continually
monitors the company’s capacity needs and makes adjustments as dictated by market and other conditions.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



The following table provides information about our corporate headquarters and financial
services operations, and each of Snap-on’s principal active manufacturing locations and distribution centers (exceeding 50,000 square feet) as of 2015 year end:

*

Segment abbreviations:

C&I – Commercial & Industrial Group

SOT – Snap-on Tools
Group

RS&I – Repair Systems & Information Group

FS – Financial Services


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Item 3: Legal Proceedings

Snap-on is involved in various legal matters that are being litigated and/or settled in the ordinary course of business. Although it is
not possible to predict the outcome of these legal matters, management believes that the results of these legal matters will not have a material impact on

Snap-on’s

consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

PART II

Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

Snap-on

had 58,086,046 shares of common stock outstanding as of
2015 year end.

Snap-on’s

stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “SNA.” At February 5, 2016, there were 5,206 registered holders of

Snap-on

common stock.

The high and low closing prices of Snap-on’s common stock during
each fiscal quarter for the last two years were as follows:

Snap-on

has paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends, without
interruption or reduction, since 1939. Quarterly dividends in 2015 were $0.61 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.53 per share in each of the first three quarters ($2.20 per share for the year). Quarterly dividends in 2014 were $0.53 per share in
the fourth quarter and $0.44 per share in each of the first three quarters ($1.85 per share for the year). Quarterly dividends in 2013 were $0.44 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.38 per share in each of the first three quarters ($1.58 per
share for the year). Cash dividends paid in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $127.9 million, $107.6 million and $92.0 million, respectively.

Snap-on’s

Board of Directors (the “Board”) monitors and
evaluates the company’s dividend practice quarterly and the Board may elect to increase, decrease or not pay a dividend on

Snap-on

common stock based upon the company’s financial condition, results
of operations, cash requirements and future prospects of

Snap-on

and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following chart discloses information regarding the shares of Snap-on’s common stock repurchased by the company during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, all of which were purchased pursuant to the Board’s authorizations that the company has publicly announced. Snap-on has undertaken stock repurchases from time to time to offset dilution created by shares issued
for employee and franchisee stock purchase plans, stock options and other corporate purposes, as well as to repurchase shares when the company believes market conditions are favorable. The repurchase of Snap-on common stock is at the company’s
discretion, subject to prevailing financial and market conditions.

N/A: Not applicable

*

Subject to further adjustment pursuant to the 1996 Authorization described below, as of January 2, 2016, the approximate value of shares that
may yet be purchased pursuant to the three outstanding Board authorizations discussed below is $230.6 million.

•

In 1996, the Board authorized the company to repurchase shares of the company’s common stock from time to time in the open market or in
privately negotiated transactions (“the 1996 Authorization”). The 1996 Authorization allows the repurchase of up to the number of shares issued or delivered from treasury from time to time under the various plans the company has in place
that call for the issuance of the company’s common stock. Because the number of shares that are purchased pursuant to the 1996 Authorization will change from time to time as (i) the company issues shares under its various plans; and
(ii) shares are repurchased pursuant to this authorization, the number of shares authorized to be repurchased will vary from time to time. The 1996 Authorization will expire when terminated by the Board. When calculating the approximate value
of shares that the company may yet purchase under the 1996 Authorization, the company assumed a price of $165.89, $171.76 and $171.43 per share of common stock as of the end of the fiscal 2015 months ended October 31,
2015, November 28, 2015, and January 2, 2016, respectively.

•

In 1998, the Board authorized the repurchase of an aggregate of $100 million of the company’s common stock (“the 1998
Authorization”). The 1998 Authorization will expire when the aggregate repurchase price limit is met, unless terminated earlier by the Board.

•

In 1999, the Board authorized the repurchase of an aggregate of $50 million of the company’s common stock (“the 1999 Authorization”).
The 1999 Authorization will expire when the aggregate repurchase price limit is met, unless terminated earlier by the Board.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Other Purchases or Sales of Equity Securities

The following chart discloses information regarding shares of Snap-on’s common stock that were sold by Citibank, N.A.
(“Citibank”) during the fourth quarter of 2015 pursuant to a prepaid equity forward agreement (the “Agreement”) with Citibank that is intended to reduce the impact of market risk associated with the stock-based portion of the
company’s deferred compensation plans. The company’s stock-based deferred compensation liabilities, which are impacted by changes in the company’s stock price, increase as the company’s stock price rises and decrease as the
company’s stock price declines. Pursuant to the Agreement, Citibank may purchase or sell shares of the company’s common stock (for Citibank’s account) in the market or in privately negotiated transactions. The Agreement has no stated
expiration date and does not provide for Snap-on to purchase or repurchase its shares.

Citibank Sales of Snap-on Stock

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Five-year Stock Performance Graph

The graph below illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return on

Snap-on

common stock since
December 31, 2010, assuming that dividends were reinvested. The graph compares

Snap-on’s

performance to that of a Peer Group and Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (“S&P
500”).

Snap-on Incorporated Total Shareholder Return

(1)

(1)

Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2010, and that dividends were reinvested quarterly.

(2)

The company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31 of each year; for ease of calculation, the fiscal year
end is assumed to be December 31.

(3)

The Peer Group consists of: Stanley Black & Decker, Inc., Danaher Corporation, Emerson Electric Co., Genuine Parts Company, Newell
Rubbermaid Inc., Pentair plc, SPX Corporation and W.W. Grainger, Inc.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Item 6: Selected Financial Data

The selected financial data presented below has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the respective historical
consolidated financial statements of the company, including the notes thereto, and “Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

*

In 2011, Snap-on settled a dispute with its former financial services joint venture partner and recorded an $18.0 million pretax arbitration
settlement gain ($11.1 million after tax or $0.19 per diluted share).

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7:
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management Overview

We believe our broad-based organic sales growth in 2015 demonstrates Snap-on’s continued progress in providing repeatability and
reliability to a wide range of professional customers performing critical tasks in workplaces of consequence, while overcoming headwinds in certain end markets and geographies that surfaced in the overall macroeconomic environment, particularly
during the latter half of the year. Leveraging capabilities already demonstrated in the automotive repair arena, our “coherent growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding our professional customer base, not only in automotive
repair, but in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high.

We believe our 2015 operating results also provide continued evidence that Snap-on’s value proposition of making work easier for serious professionals in workplaces of consequence is an ongoing
strength as we move forward along our runways for coherent growth:

•

Enhancing the franchise network, where we continued to focus on helping our franchisees extend their reach through innovative selling processes and
productivity initiatives that break the traditional time and space barriers inherent in a mobile van;

•

Expanding in the vehicle repair garage, where we continued to make significant progress in connecting with customers and translating the resulting
insights into new innovation that solves specific challenges in the repair facility. For example, the July 2015 acquisition of Ecotechnics S.p.A. (“Ecotechnics”) further broadened our established capabilities in serving vehicle repair
facilities and expanded our presence with repair shop owners and managers;

•

Extending to critical industries, where we continued to grow our lines of products customized for specific industries, despite near-term challenges
in certain industrial end markets; and

•

Building in emerging markets, where we continued to build manufacturing capacity, focused product lines and distribution capability.

We also believe our year-over-year improvement in operating margin further evidences the potential of our
Snap-on Value Creation Processes – our suite of strategic principles and processes we employ every day designed to create value and employed in the areas of safety, quality, customer connection, innovation and rapid continuous
improvement.

Our global financial services operations continue to serve a significant strategic role in offering financing
options to our franchisees, to their customers, and to customers in other parts of our business. We expect that our global financial services business, which includes both Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”) in the United States and our other
international finance subsidiaries, will continue to be a meaningful contributor to our operating earnings going forward.

Recent
Acquisitions

On July 27, 2015, Snap-on acquired the assets of Ecotechnics for a cash purchase price of $11.8
million, which reflects the finalization of a working capital adjustment that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. Ecotechnics designs and manufactures vehicle air conditioning service equipment for original equipment manufacturer
(“OEM”) dealerships and the automotive aftermarket worldwide. The acquisition of the Ecotechnics product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing equipment product offering for OEM dealerships and independent automotive
repair shops, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities, and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

On May 28, 2014, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of Pro-Cut International Inc. (“Pro-Cut”) for a cash purchase price of $41.3 million. Pro-Cut designs, manufactures and
distributes on-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories used in brake servicing by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of the Pro-Cut product line complemented and increased

Snap-on’s

existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


On May 13, 2013, Snap-on acquired Challenger Lifts, Inc. (“Challenger”)
for a cash purchase price of $38.2 million. Challenger designs, manufactures and distributes a comprehensive line of vehicle lifts and accessories to a diverse customer base in the automotive repair sector. The acquisition of the
Challenger vehicle lift product line complemented and increased

Snap-on’s

existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and
expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

For segment reporting purposes, the results of
operations and assets of Ecotechnics, Pro-Cut and Challenger have been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the respective acquisition dates. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of
these acquisitions, both individually and collectively, were neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.

Consolidated

net sales of $3,352.8 million in 2015 increased $75.1 million, or 2.3%, from 2014 levels, including an unfavorable $157.7 million impact from foreign currency translation and $12.0
million of acquisition-related sales. Organic sales (excluding foreign currency translation impacts and acquisition-related sales) increased $220.8 million or 7.1%.

Operating earnings before financial services of $594.6 million in 2015 were up $59.0 million, or 11.0%, from 2014 levels, reflecting contributions from higher sales and improved operating margins,
including contributions from “Rapid Continuous Improvement” or “RCI initiatives,” partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects. Snap-on’s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across
multiple businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on’s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings
generated from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations. Unless individually significant, it is not practicable to disclose each RCI
activity that generated savings and/or segregate RCI savings embedded in sales volume increases.

Operating earnings of $764.8
million in 2015 increased $80.1 million, or 11.7%, from $684.7 million last year. In 2015, net earnings attributable to Snap-on Incorporated were $478.7 million or $8.10 per diluted share. Net earnings attributable to Snap-on Incorporated in 2014
were $421.9 million or $7.14 per diluted share.

The

Commercial & Industrial Group

consists of business
operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government and technical education market segments (collectively, “critical industries”). Segment
net sales of $1,163.6 million in 2015 decreased $11.2 million, or 1.0%, from 2014 levels. Excluding $75.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales in 2015 increased $64.1 million, or 5.8%, due to higher sales in the
segment’s power tools and Asia/Pacific operations, as well as increased sales from the segment’s European-based hand tools business; sales to customers in critical industries were essentially flat, as sales gains in several market segments
were generally offset by lower sales to customers in the oil and gas sector of our natural resources market segment. Operating earnings of $169.4 million in 2015 increased $10.8 million, or 6.8%, from 2014 levels primarily as a result of higher
organic sales and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.

The
Commercial & Industrial Group intends to continue building on the following strategic priorities in 2016:

•

Investing in emerging market growth initiatives, including in China, India, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America;

•

Expanding our business with existing customers and reaching new customers in critical industries and other market segments;

•

Broadening our product offering and engineered solutions designed particularly for critical industry segments;

•

Increasing our customer-connection-driven understanding of work across multiple industries;

•

Investing in innovation that, guided by that understanding of work, delivers an ongoing stream of productivity-enhancing solutions; and

•

Continuing to reduce structural and operating costs through RCI and restructuring initiatives.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

In the

Snap-on Tools Group

, segment net sales of $1,568.7 million in 2015
increased $113.5 million, or 7.8%, from 2014 levels. Excluding $40.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales in 2015 increased $154.2 million, or 10.9%, reflecting higher sales in both the company’s U.S. and
international franchise operations. Operating earnings of $256.0 million in 2015 increased $32.9 million, or 14.7%, from 2014 levels, primarily as a result of the higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by unfavorable foreign
currency effects.

The Snap-on Tools Group made continued progress in 2015 on its fundamental, strategic initiatives to
strengthen the franchise network and enhance franchisee profitability. In 2016, the Snap-on Tools Group intends to further build on the progress made in 2015, with specific initiatives focused on the following:

•

Continuing to improve franchisee satisfaction, productivity, profitability and commercial health;

•

Developing new programs and products to expand market coverage, reaching new technicians and increasing penetration with existing customers;

•

Continuing to invest in new product innovation and development; and

•

Increasing operational flexibility in back office support functions, manufacturing and the supply chain through RCI initiatives and investment.

By focusing on these areas, we believe that Snap-on, as well as our franchisees, will have the opportunity
to continue to serve customers more effectively, more profitably and with improved satisfaction.

In the

Repair
Systems & Information Group

, segment net sales of $1,113.2 million in 2015 increased $18.0 million, or 1.6%, from 2014 levels. Excluding $45.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $12.0 million of acquisition-related
sales, organic sales increased $51.8 million or 4.9%. The organic sales increase primarily reflects higher sales to OEM dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”), as well as increased sales to independent repair shop owners
and managers, including higher sales of diagnostic and repair information products, and increased sales of undercar equipment. Operating earnings of $273.4 million in 2015 increased $22.2 million, or 8.8%, from 2014 levels, primarily due to higher
sales, including acquisition-related sales, and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects.

The Repair Systems & Information Group intends to focus on the following strategic priorities in 2016:

•

Expanding the product offering with new products and services, thereby providing more to sell to repair shop owners and managers;

•

Continuing software and hardware upgrades;

•

Leveraging integration of software solutions;

•

Continuing productivity advancements through RCI initiatives and leveraging of resources; and

•

Increasing penetration in geographic markets, including emerging markets.

Financial Services

revenue was $240.3 million in 2015 and $214.9 million in 2014; originations of $993.7 million in 2015 increased
$105.1 million, or 11.8%, from 2014 levels. In recent years, Snap-on has steadily grown its financial services portfolio by providing financing for new finance and contract receivables originated by our global financial services operations. In
2015, operating earnings from financial services of $170.2 million increased $21.1 million, or 14.2%, from $149.1 million last year.

Financial Services intends to focus on the following strategic priorities in 2016:

•

Delivering financial products and services that attract and sustain profitable franchisees and support Snap-on’s strategies for expanding
market coverage and penetration;

•

Improving productivity levels and ensuring high quality in all financial products and processes through the use of RCI initiatives; and

•

Maintaining healthy portfolio performance levels.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Cash Flows

Net cash provided by operating activities of $496.5 million in 2015 increased $98.6 million from prior-year levels primarily as a result of higher 2015 net earnings and net changes in operating assets and
liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2013 was $392.6 million.

Net cash used by investing activities of
$306.4 million in 2015 included additions to, and collections of, finance receivables of $844.2 million and $624.8 million, respectively, as well as an $11.8 million use of cash for the acquisition of Ecotechnics. Net cash used by investing
activities of $273.2 million in 2014 included additions to, and collections of finance receivables of $746.2 million and $591.4 million, respectively, as well as a $41.3 million use of cash for the acquisition of Pro-Cut. Net cash used by investing
activities of $250.4 million in 2013 included additions to, and collections of, finance receivables of $651.3 million and $508.8 million, respectively, as well as a $38.2 million use of cash for the acquisition of Challenger. Capital expenditures in
2015 of $80.4 million reflect continued spending to support the company’s execution of its strategic growth initiatives and Value Creation Processes, including continued investments focused on safety, quality, customer connection, innovation
and RCI.

Net cash used by financing activities of $226.0 million in 2015 included $127.9 million for dividend payments to
shareholders, $110.4 million for the repurchase of 723,000 shares of Snap-on’s common stock and $34.0 million from a net decrease in notes payable and other short-term borrowings, partially offset by $41.6 million of proceeds from stock
purchase and option plan exercises. Net cash used by financing activities of $206.9 million in 2014 included the March 2014 repayment of $100.0 million of unsecured notes at maturity. Net cash used by financing activities in 2014 also included
$107.6 million for dividend payments to shareholders and $79.3 million for the repurchase of 680,000 shares of Snap-on’s common stock, partially offset by $45.0 million of proceeds from a net increase in notes payable and other short-term
borrowings and $33.0 million of proceeds from stock purchase and option plan exercises. Net cash used by financing activities of $137.8 million in 2013 included $92.0 million for dividend payments to shareholders and $82.6 million for the repurchase
of 926,000 shares of Snap-on’s common stock, partially offset by $29.2 million of proceeds from stock purchase and option plan exercises.

Fiscal Year

Snap-on’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to “fiscal 2015” or “2015” refer to the fiscal year ended January 2, 2016; references to “fiscal 2014” or “2014”
refer to the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015; and references to “fiscal 2013” or “2013” refer to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013. References in this document to 2015, 2014 and 2013 year end refer to
January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013, respectively.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Results of Operations

2015 vs. 2014

Results of operations for 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

NM: Not
meaningful

Percentage Disclosure: All income statement line item percentages below “Operating earnings from financial
services” are calculated as a percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Snap-on’s 2015
fiscal year contained 52 weeks of operating results. Snap-on’s 2014 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results. The impact of the additional week of operations in fiscal 2014 was not material to Snap-on’s full year 2014 net sales
or net earnings.

Net sales of $3,352.8 million in 2015 increased $75.1 million, or 2.3%, from 2014 levels, including $157.7
million of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $12.0 million of acquisition-related sales. Organic sales (excluding foreign currency translation impacts and acquisition-related sales) in 2015 increased $220.8 million, or 7.1%, from 2014
levels.

Snap-on

has significant international operations and is subject to risks inherent with foreign operations, including foreign currency translation fluctuations.

Gross profit of $1,648.3 million in 2015 compared to $1,584.3 million last year. Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales)
of 49.2% in 2015 improved 90 basis points (100 basis points (“bps”) equals 1.0 percent) from 48.3% last year primarily due to benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives, as well as lower restructuring costs (20 bps).
Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $5.7 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Operating expenses of $1,053.7 million in 2015 compared to $1,048.7 million last year.
The operating expense margin (operating expenses as a percentage of net sales) of 31.5% in 2015 improved 50 bps from 32.0% last year primarily due to sales volume leverage and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by 20 bps of higher
pension expense. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were zero and $0.8 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Operating earnings before financial services of $594.6 million in 2015, including $39.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects,
increased $59.0 million, or 11.0%, as compared to $535.6 million last year. As a percentage of net sales, operating earnings before financial services of 17.7% in 2015 improved 140 bps from 16.3% last year.

Financial services revenue of $240.3 million in 2015 compared to revenue of $214.9 million last year. Financial services operating
earnings of $170.2 million in 2015, including $2.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $21.1 million, or 14.2%, as compared to $149.1 million last year. The year-over-year increases in both revenue and operating earnings
primarily reflect continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Operating earnings of $764.8 million
in 2015, including $42.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $80.1 million, or 11.7%, from $684.7 million last year. As a percentage of revenues (net sales plus financial services revenue), operating earnings of 21.3% in 2015
improved 170 bps from 19.6% last year.

Interest expense of $51.9 million in 2015 decreased $1.0 million from $52.9 million
last year. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Snap-on’s debt and credit facilities.

Other income (expense) – net was expense of $2.4 million and $0.9 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other income (expense)
– net primarily reflects net losses and gains associated with hedging and currency exchange rate transactions, and interest income. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other income (expense) – net.

Snap-on’s effective income tax rate on earnings attributable to

Snap-on

was
31.7% in 2015 and 32.1% in 2014. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income taxes.

Net
earnings attributable to Snap-on of $478.7 million, or $8.10 per diluted share, in 2015 increased $56.8 million, or $0.96 per diluted share, from 2014 levels. Net earnings attributable to Snap-on in 2014 were $421.9 million or $7.14 per diluted
share.

Exit and Disposal Activities

Snap-on did not record any costs for exit and disposal activities in 2015; Snap-on recorded $6.5 million of costs for exit and disposal activities in 2014. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on Snap-on’s exit and disposal activities.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Segment Results

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business
segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists
of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government and technical education market segments (collectively, “critical
industries”), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution
channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and
distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of

Snap-on’s

finance subsidiaries.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment
sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of
cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

Commercial & Industrial Group

Segment net sales of $1,163.6 million in 2015 decreased $11.2 million, or 1.0%, from 2014 levels.
Excluding $75.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales increased $64.1 million, or 5.8%, primarily due to a double-digit gain in the segment’s power tools operations and high single-digit increases from both the
segment’s European-based hand tools business and Asia/Pacific operations; sales to customers in critical industries were essentially flat, as sales gains in several market segments were generally offset by lower sales to customers in the oil
and gas sector of our natural resources market segment.

Segment gross profit of $446.5 million in 2015 compared to $449.7
million last year. Gross margin of 38.4% in 2015 improved 10 bps from 38.3% last year, as savings from RCI initiatives were partially offset by a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products, including increased
sales from the segment’s power tools and Asia/Pacific operations. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $1.0 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $277.1 million in 2015 compared to $291.1 million last year. The operating expense margin of 23.8% in 2015 improved 100 bps from 24.8% last year primarily due to benefits
from the sales shift noted above and a 20 bps gain from the sale of a former manufacturing facility. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were zero and $0.4 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $169.4 million in 2015, including $7.7 million of unfavorable foreign
currency effects, increased $10.8 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin (segment operating earnings as a percentage of segment net sales) for the Commercial & Industrial Group of 14.6% in 2015 improved 110 bps from 13.5% last year.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Snap-on Tools Group

Segment net sales of $1,568.7 million in 2015 increased $113.5 million, or 7.8%, from 2014
levels. Excluding $40.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales increased $154.2 million, or 10.9%, reflecting double-digit sales gains in both the company’s U.S. and international franchise operations.

Segment gross profit of $683.0 million in 2015 compared to $630.3 million last year. Gross margin of 43.5% in 2015 improved
20 bps from 43.3% last year primarily due to benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by 90 bps of unfavorable foreign currency effects.

Segment operating expenses of $427.0 million in 2015 compared to $407.2 million last year. The operating expense margin of
27.2% in 2015 improved 80 bps from 28.0% last year primarily due to sales volume leverage.

As a result of these factors,
segment operating earnings of $256.0 million in 2015, including $21.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $32.9 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin for the Snap-on Tools Group of 16.3% in 2015 improved 100 bps from
15.3% last year.

Repair Systems & Information Group

Segment net sales of $1,113.2 million in 2015 increased $18.0 million, or 1.6%, from 2014 levels.
Excluding $45.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $12.0 million of acquisition-related sales, organic sales increased $51.8 million or 4.9%. The organic sales increase primarily reflects mid single-digit gains in sales of
undercar equipment, sales to OEM dealerships, and sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers.

Segment gross profit of $518.8 million in 2015 compared to $504.3 million last year. Gross margin of 46.6% in 2015 improved 60 bps from 46.0% last year primarily due to contributions from higher
sales and savings from RCI initiatives, and lower restructuring costs (40 bps). These gross margin improvements were partially offset by a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products, including increased essential tool
and facilitation sales to OEM dealerships. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $4.7 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $245.4 million in 2015 compared to $253.1 million last year. The operating expense margin of 22.0% in 2015 improved 110 bps from 23.1% last year primarily due to sales volume
leverage, including benefits from the sales shift noted above, and savings from RCI initiatives. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were zero and $0.4 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $273.4 million in 2015, including $10.5 million of unfavorable foreign
currency effects, increased $22.2 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin for the Repair Systems & Information Group of 24.6% in 2015 improved 170 bps from 22.9% last year.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Financial Services

(Amounts in millions)



Change

Financial services revenue

$

240.3

100.0%

$

214.9

100.0%

$

25.4

11.8%

Financial services expenses

(70.1)

-29.2%

(65.8)

-30.6%

(4.3)

-6.5%

Segment operating earnings

$

170.2

70.8%

$

149.1

69.4%

$

21.1

14.2%

Financial services revenue of $240.3 million in 2015 increased $25.4 million, or 11.8%, from $214.9
million last year. The $25.4 million increase in financial services revenue primarily reflects $23.0 million of higher revenue as a result of continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio and $2.2 million of increased
revenue from higher average yields on finance receivables. In 2015 and 2014, the average yield on finance receivables was 17.8% and 17.6%, respectively, and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both years. Originations of $993.7
million in 2015 increased $105.1 million, or 11.8%, from 2014 levels.

Financial services expenses primarily include
personnel-related and other general and administrative costs, as well as provisions for doubtful accounts. These expenses are generally more dependent on changes in the size of the financial services portfolio than they are on the revenue of the
segment. Financial services expenses of $70.1 million in 2015 compared to $65.8 million in 2014. As a percentage of the average financial services portfolio, financial services expenses were 4.8% and 5.1% in 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Financial services operating earnings of $170.2 million in 2015, including $2.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects,
increased $21.1 million, or 14.2%, from 2014 levels.

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on financial
services.

Corporate

Snap-on’s general corporate expenses in 2015 of $104.2 million increased $6.9 million from $97.3 million last year primarily due to $7.9 million of higher pension expense.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Fourth Quarter

Results of operations for the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

NM: Not
meaningful

Percentage Disclosure: All income statement line item percentages below “Operating earnings from financial services” are
calculated as a percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Snap-on’s 2015 fiscal year contained
52 weeks of operating results. Snap-on’s 2014 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results, with the extra week occurring in the fourth quarter. The impact of the additional week of operations in fiscal 2014 was not material to
Snap-on’s fourth quarter 2014 net sales or net earnings.

Net sales of $851.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2015
decreased $5.7 million, or 0.7%, from 2014 levels, including $33.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $2.2 million of acquisition-related sales. Organic sales in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased $25.3 million, or 3.1%,
from 2014 levels.

Snap-on

has significant international operations and is subject to risks inherent with foreign operations, including foreign currency translation fluctuations.

Gross profit of $412.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $411.3 million last year. Gross margin of 48.4% in the quarter
improved 40 bps from 48.0% last year primarily due to higher organic sales and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by 20 bps of unfavorable foreign currency effects. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $1.0 million
in the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Operating expenses of $250.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $266.1
million last year. The operating expense margin of 29.3% in the fourth quarter of 2015 improved 180 bps from 31.1% last year primarily due to organic sales volume leverage and savings from RCI initiatives, a 50 bps benefit from lower
performance-based and stock-based (mark-to-market) compensation expenses, and a 30 bps gain primarily from the sale of a former manufacturing facility. These improvements in operating expense margin were partially offset by 20 bps of higher pension
expense.

Operating earnings before financial services of $162.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, including $9.2 million
of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $17.1 million, or 11.8%, as compared to $145.2 million last year. As a percentage of net sales, operating earnings before financial services of 19.1% in the quarter improved 220 bps from 16.9% last
year.

Financial services revenue of $63.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to revenue of $59.4 million last
year. Financial services operating earnings of $45.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, including $0.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $2.8 million, or 6.6%, as compared to $42.2 million last year. The year-over-year
increases in both revenue and operating earnings primarily reflect continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Operating earnings of $207.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, including $9.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $19.9 million, or 10.6%, from $187.4 million last year. As a
percentage of revenues, operating earnings of 22.7% in the quarter improved 230 bps from 20.4% last year.

Interest expense of
$13.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $0.8 million from $13.8 million last year. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Snap-on’s debt and credit facilities.

Other income (expense) – net was expense of $0.5 million and $0.2 million in the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively. See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other income (expense) – net.

Snap-on’s
fourth-quarter effective income tax rate on earnings attributable to Snap-on was 31.1% in 2015 and 32.1% in 2014. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income taxes.

Net earnings attributable to Snap-on of $131.4 million, or $2.22 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased
$15.2 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, from 2014 levels. Net earnings attributable to Snap-on in the fourth quarter of 2014 were $116.2 million or $1.97 per diluted share.

Segment Results

Commercial & Industrial Group

Segment net sales of $281.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $16.4 million, or 5.5%, from
2014 levels. Excluding $14.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales decreased $1.7 million, or 0.6%, primarily due to a high single-digit decline in sales to customers in critical industries, largely as a result of
lower sales to the military and to customers in the oil and gas sector of our natural resources market segment. These organic sales declines were partially offset by a double-digit increase in the segment’s power tools operations and a low
single-digit gain from the segment’s European-based hand tools business.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Segment gross profit of $107.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $113.4
million last year. Gross margin of 38.2% in the quarter improved 20 bps from 38.0% last year, as savings from RCI initiatives and 20 bps of lower restructuring costs were partially offset by a shift in sales that included a decrease in higher gross
margin sales to customers in critical industries and an increase in lower gross margin sales from the segment’s power tools operations. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $0.5 million in the fourth quarters of 2015 and
2014, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $65.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $72.9 million last
year. The operating expense margin of 23.3% in the quarter improved 110 bps from 24.4% last year primarily due to a 70 bps gain from the sale of a former manufacturing facility, as well as benefits from the sales shift noted above.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $41.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, including $1.5 million of
unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $1.4 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin for the Commercial & Industrial Group of 14.9% in the fourth quarter of 2015 improved 130 bps from 13.6% last year.

Snap-on Tools Group

Segment net sales of $411.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased $23.7 million, or 6.1%, from
2014 levels. Excluding $9.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales increased $33.0 million, or 8.7%, reflecting a high single-digit sales gain in the company’s U.S. franchise operations and a double-digit sales
increase in the company’s international franchise operations.

Segment gross profit of $173.7 million in the fourth
quarter of 2015 compared to $166.4 million last year. Gross margin of 42.2% in the quarter decreased 70 bps from 42.9% last year primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects.

Segment operating expenses of $101.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $102.5 million last year. The operating expense
margin of 24.7% in the quarter improved 170 bps from 26.4% last year primarily due to sales volume leverage.

As a result of
these factors, segment operating earnings of $71.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, including $4.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $8.0 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin for the

Snap-on

Tools Group of 17.5% in the fourth quarter of 2015 improved 100 bps from 16.5% last year.

Repair
Systems & Information Group

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Segment net sales of $280.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased $2.2
million, or 0.8%, from 2014 levels. Excluding $10.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $2.2 million of acquisition-related sales, organic sales increased $5.9 million or 2.2%. The organic sales increase primarily
reflects a mid single-digit gain in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers, and a low single-digit increase in sales to OEM dealerships; sales of undercar equipment were essentially flat
year over year.

Segment gross profit of $131.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $131.5 million last year.
Gross margin of 46.7% in the quarter improved 20 bps from 46.5% last year. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were zero and $0.5 million in the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $58.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $66.3 million last year. The operating expense
margin of 21.0% in the quarter improved 240 bps from 23.4% last year primarily due to organic sales volume leverage and savings from RCI initiatives. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were zero and $0.1 million in the fourth
quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $72.1 million in the
fourth quarter of 2015, including $2.9 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $6.9 million from 2014 levels. Operating margin for the Repair Systems & Information Group of 25.7% in the fourth quarter of 2015 improved 260
bps from 23.1% last year.

Financial Services

Financial services revenue of $63.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased $3.7 million, or
6.2%, from $59.4 million last year. The $3.7 million increase in financial services revenue reflects $3.5 million of higher revenue as a result of continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio and $0.2 million of increased
revenue from higher average yields on finance receivables. In the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, the average yield on finance receivables was 17.8% and 17.6%, respectively, and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both periods.
Originations of $252.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased $19.8 million, or 8.5%, from 2014 levels.

Financial
services expenses of $18.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to financial services expenses of $17.2 million last year. As a percentage of the average financial services portfolio, financial services expenses were 1.2% and 1.3% in the
fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Financial services operating earnings of $45.0 million in the fourth quarter
of 2015, including $0.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $2.8 million, or 6.6%, from 2014 levels.

See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on financial services.

Corporate

Snap-on’s fourth quarter 2015 general corporate expenses of $23.6 million decreased $0.8 million from $24.4 million last year, as
$2.3 million of higher pension expense was more than offset by lower other expenses, including lower performance-based and mark-to-market compensation expenses.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


2014 vs. 2013

Results of operations for 2014 and 2013 are as follows:

NM: Not
meaningful

Percentage Disclosure: All income statement line item percentages below “Operating earnings from financial services” are
calculated as a percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Snap-on’s 2014 fiscal year contained
53 weeks of operating results. Snap-on’s 2013 fiscal year contained 52 weeks of operating results. The impact of the additional week of operations in fiscal 2014 was not material to Snap-on’s full year 2014 net sales or net earnings.

Net sales of $3,277.7 million in 2014 increased $221.2 million, or 7.2%, from 2013 levels, including $37.0 million of
acquisition-related sales and $25.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation. Organic sales in 2014 increased $209.5 million, or 6.9%, from 2013 levels. Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to risks inherent
with foreign operations, including foreign currency translation fluctuations.

Gross profit of $1,584.3 million in 2014
compared to $1,472.9 million in 2013. Gross margin of 48.3% in 2014 improved 10 bps from 48.2% in 2013, as benefits from higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives were partially offset by increased restructuring and other costs. Restructuring
costs included in gross profit were $5.7 million and $4.4 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Operating expenses of $1,048.7 million in 2014 compared to $1,012.4 million in 2013. The
operating expense margin of 32.0% in 2014 improved 110 bps from 33.1% in 2013 primarily due to sales volume leverage. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were $0.8 million and $1.9 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Operating earnings before financial services of $535.6 million in 2014, including $11.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects,
increased $75.1 million, or 16.3%, as compared to $460.5 million in 2013. As a percentage of net sales, operating earnings before financial services of 16.3% in 2014 improved 120 bps from 15.1% in 2013.

Financial services revenue of $214.9 million in 2014 compared to revenue of $181.0 million in 2013. Financial services operating earnings
of $149.1 million in 2014, including $0.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $23.4 million, or 18.6%, as compared to $125.7 million last year. The year-over-year increases in both revenue and operating earnings primarily
reflect continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio.

Operating earnings of $684.7 million in 2014,
including $11.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $98.5 million, or 16.8%, from $586.2 million in 2013. As a percentage of revenues, operating earnings of 19.6% in 2014 improved 150 bps from 18.1% in 2013.

Interest expense of $52.9 million in 2014 decreased $3.2 million from $56.1 million in 2013 primarily due to lower average debt levels as
a result of the March 2014 repayment of $100.0 million of unsecured notes at maturity. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Snap-on’s debt and credit facilities.

Other income (expense) – net was expense of $0.9 million and $3.9 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Other income (expense)
– net primarily reflects net losses and gains associated with hedging and currency exchange rate transactions, and interest income. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other income (expense) – net.

Snap-on’s effective income tax rate on earnings attributable to

Snap-on

was
32.1% in 2014 and 32.3% in 2013. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income taxes.

Net
earnings attributable to Snap-on in 2014 of $421.9 million, or $7.14 per diluted share, increased $71.6 million, or $1.21 per diluted share, from 2013 levels. Net earnings attributable to Snap-on in 2013 were $350.3 million or $5.93 per diluted
share.

Exit and Disposal Activities

Snap-on recorded costs for exit and disposal activities of $6.5 million and $6.4 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on

Snap-on’s

exit and disposal activities.

Segment Results

Commercial & Industrial Group

Segment net sales of $1,174.8 million in 2014 increased $83.8 million, or 7.7%, from 2013 levels;
excluding $18.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales increased $102.0 million or 9.5%. The organic sales increase primarily reflects a double-digit gain in sales to customers in critical industries and a mid
single-digit sales increase in the segment’s European-based hand tools business.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Segment gross profit of $449.7 million in 2014 compared to $419.5 million in 2013. Gross
margin of 38.3% in 2014 decreased 20 bps from 38.5% in 2013, as benefits from increased sales and savings from RCI initiatives, as well as 10 bps of lower restructuring costs, were more than offset by higher expenses, including 30 bps of unfavorable
foreign currency effects. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were $1.0 million and $2.5 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $291.1 million in 2014 compared to $282.2 million in 2013. The operating expense margin of 24.8% in 2014 improved 110 bps from 25.9% in 2013 primarily due to sales volume
leverage. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were $0.4 million in both years.

As a result of these factors,
segment operating earnings of $158.6 million in 2014, including $6.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $21.3 million from 2013 levels. Operating margin for the Commercial & Industrial Group of 13.5% in 2014 improved
90 bps from 12.6% in 2013.

Snap-on Tools Group

Segment net sales of $1,455.2 million in 2014 increased $96.8 million, or 7.1%, from 2013 levels.
Excluding $6.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales increased $103.1 million, or 7.6%, reflecting a high single-digit sales increase in the company’s U.S. franchise operations and a mid single-digit sales gain in
the company’s international franchise operations.

Segment gross profit of $630.3 million in 2014 compared to $585.8
million in 2013. Gross margin of 43.3% in 2014 improved 20 bps from 43.1% in 2013 primarily due to benefits from the higher sales and savings from RCI initiatives, partially offset by 30 bps of unfavorable foreign currency effects. Restructuring
costs included in gross profit were zero and $0.2 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $407.2
million in 2014 compared to $391.2 million in 2013. The operating expense margin of 28.0% in 2014 improved 80 bps from 28.8% in 2013 primarily due to sales volume leverage. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were zero and $0.3
million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $223.1 million in 2014,
including $5.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $28.5 million from 2013 levels. Operating margin for the Snap-on Tools Group of 15.3% in 2014 improved 100 bps from 14.3% in 2013.

Repair Systems & Information Group

Segment net sales of $1,095.2 million in 2014 increased $85.6 million, or 8.5%, from 2013 levels.
Excluding $37.0 million of acquisition-related sales and $0.5 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation, organic sales in 2014 increased $49.1 million or 4.9%. The organic sales increase primarily reflects a high single-digit gain in sales
to OEM dealerships, a mid single-digit increase in sales of diagnostic and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers, and a low single-digit gain in sales of undercar equipment.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Segment gross profit of $504.3 million in 2014 compared to $467.6 million in 2013. Gross
margin of 46.0% in 2014 decreased 30 bps from 46.3% in 2013 primarily due to a shift in sales that included higher volumes of lower gross margin products, including increased essential tool and facilitation sales to OEM dealerships, and 20 bps of
higher restructuring costs. Restructuring costs included in gross profit were $4.7 million and $1.7 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Segment operating expenses of $253.1 million in 2014 compared to $235.7 million in 2013. The operating expense margin of 23.1% in 2014 improved 20 bps from 23.3% in 2013 primarily due to sales volume
leverage. Restructuring costs included in operating expenses were $0.4 million and $1.2 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $251.2 million in 2014 increased $19.3 million from 2013 levels. Operating
margin for the Repair Systems & Information Group of 22.9% in 2014 decreased 10 bps from 23.0% in 2013.

Financial Services

(Amounts in millions)



Change

Financial services revenue

$

214.9

100.0%

$

181.0

100.0%

$

33.9

18.7%

Financial services expenses

(65.8)

-30.6%

(55.3)

-30.6%

(10.5)

-19.0%

Segment operating earnings

$

149.1

69.4%

$

125.7

69.4%

$

23.4

18.6%

Financial services revenue of $214.9 million in 2014 increased $33.9 million, or 18.7%, from $181.0
million in 2013. The $33.9 million increase in financial services revenue primarily reflects $30.6 million of higher revenue as a result of continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio and $1.8 million of increased revenue
from higher average yields on finance receivables. In 2014 and 2013, the average yield on finance receivables was 17.6% and 17.4%, respectively, and the average yield on contract receivables was 9.5% in both years. Originations of $888.6 million in
2014 increased $110.9 million, or 14.3%, from 2013 levels.

Financial services expenses of $65.8 million in 2014 compared to
$55.3 million in 2013. As a percentage of the average financial services portfolio, financial services expenses were 5.1% and 4.7% in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Financial services operating earnings of $149.1 million in 2014, including $0.2 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, increased $23.4 million, or 18.6%, from 2013 levels.

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on financial services.

Corporate

Snap-on’s general corporate expenses of $97.3 million in 2014 decreased $6.0 million from $103.3 million in 2013 primarily due to
lower pension expense partially offset by higher performance-based compensation and other expenses.

Non-GAAP Supplemental Data

The supplemental data is presented for informational purposes to provide readers with insight into the information used
by management for assessing the operating performance of Snap-on Incorporated’s (“Snap-on”) non-financial services (“Operations”) and “Financial Services” businesses.

The supplemental Operations data reflects the results of operations and financial position of

Snap-on’s

tools, diagnostic and equipment products, software and other non-financial services operations with Financial Services on the equity method. The supplemental Financial Services data reflects the
results of operations and financial position of

Snap-on’s

U.S. and international financial services operations. The financing needs of Financial Services are met through intersegment borrowings and cash
generated from Operations; Financial Services is charged interest expense on intersegment borrowings at market rates. Income taxes are charged to Financial Services on the basis of the specific tax attributes generated by the U.S. and international
financial services businesses. Transactions between the Operations and Financial Services businesses were eliminated to arrive at the Consolidated Financial Statements.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Supplemental Consolidating Data – Supplemental Statements of Earnings information for 2015, 2014
and 2013 is as follows:

*

Snap-on with Financial Services on the equity method.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Supplemental Consolidating Data – Supplemental Balance Sheet Information as of 2015 and 2014 year
end is as follows:

*

Snap-on with Financial Services on the equity method.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Supplemental Consolidating Data – Supplemental Balance Sheet Information (continued):

*

Snap-on with Financial Services on the equity method.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Snap-on’s

growth has historically been funded by a combination of cash provided by operating
activities and debt financing. Snap-on believes that its cash from operations and collections of finance receivables, coupled with its sources of borrowings and available cash on hand, are sufficient to fund its currently anticipated requirements
for payments of interest and dividends, scheduled debt payments (including the January 15, 2017 repayment of $150 million of unsecured notes at maturity), new receivables originated by our financial services businesses, capital expenditures,
working capital, restructuring activities, the funding of pension plans, and funding for share repurchases and acquisitions, as they arise. Due to

Snap-on’s

credit rating over the years, external funds
have been available at an acceptable cost. As of the close of business on February 5, 2016,

Snap-on’s

long-term debt and commercial paper were rated, respectively, A3 and P-2 by Moody’s
Investors Service; A- and

A-2

by Standard & Poor’s; and A- and F2 by Fitch Ratings.

Snap-on

believes that its current credit arrangements are sound and
that the strength of its balance sheet affords the company the financial flexibility to respond to both internal growth opportunities and those available through acquisitions. However, Snap-on cannot provide any assurances of the availability of
future financing or the terms on which it might be available, or that its debt ratings may not decrease.

The following discussion focuses on
information included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of 2015 year end, working capital (current assets
less current liabilities) of $1,228.2 million increased $88.3 million from $1,139.9 million as of 2014 year end.

The
following represents the company’s working capital position as of 2015 and 2014 year end:

Cash and cash equivalents of $92.8 million as of 2015 year end decreased $40.1 million from 2014 year-end
levels primarily due to (i) the funding of $844.2 million of new finance receivables; (ii) dividend payments to shareholders of $127.9 million; (iii) the repurchase of 723,000 shares of the company’s common stock for $110.4
million; (iv) the funding of $80.4 million of capital expenditures; (v) the net repayment of $34.0 million of notes payable and other short-term borrowings; and (vi) the acquisition of Ecotechnics for $11.8 million. These decreases in
cash and cash equivalents were partially offset by (i) $624.8 million of cash from collections of finance receivables; (ii) $496.5 million of cash generated from operations; and (iii) $41.6 million of cash proceeds from stock purchase
and option plan exercises.

Of the $92.8 million of cash and cash equivalents as of January 2, 2016, $63.3 million was
held outside of the United States. Snap-on maintains non-U.S. funds in its foreign operations to (i) provide adequate working capital; (ii) satisfy various regulatory requirements; and/or (iii) take advantage of business expansion
opportunities as they arise. The repatriation of cash from certain foreign subsidiaries could have adverse net tax consequences on the company should

Snap-on

be required to pay and record U.S. income taxes and
foreign withholding taxes on such funds. Alternatively, the repatriation of cash from certain other foreign subsidiaries could result in favorable net tax consequences for the company.

Snap-on

periodically
evaluates its cash held outside the United States and may pursue opportunities to repatriate certain foreign cash amounts to the extent that it does not incur unfavorable net tax consequences.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Trade and other accounts receivable – net of $562.5 million as of 2015 year end
increased $11.7 million from 2014 year-end levels; excluding $23.7 million of currency translation impacts, trade and other accounts receivable – net increased $35.4 million primarily due to higher organic sales, as well as receivables related
to Ecotechnics. Days sales outstanding (trade and other accounts receivable – net as of the respective period end, divided by the respective trailing 12 months sales, times 360 days) was 60 days at 2015 year end and 61 days at 2014 year end.

The current portions of net finance and contract receivables of $529.4 million as of 2015 year end compared to $476.9 million
at 2014 year end. The long-term portions of net finance and contract receivables of $1,039.3 million as of 2015 year end compared to $892.5 million at 2014 year end. The combined $199.3 million increase in net current and long-term finance and
contract receivables over 2014 year-end levels is primarily due to continued growth of the company’s financial services portfolio; excluding $19.4 million of currency translation impacts, the combined increase for these receivables over 2014
year-end levels was $218.7 million.

Inventories – net of $497.8 million as of 2015 year end increased $22.3 million from
2014 year-end levels; excluding $22.5 million of currency translation impacts, inventories increased $44.8 million primarily to support continued higher customer demand and new product introductions, as well as inventories related to Ecotechnics. As
of 2015 and 2014 year end, inventory turns (trailing 12 months of cost of goods sold, divided by the average of the beginning and ending inventory balance for the trailing 12 months) were 3.5 turns and 3.7 turns, respectively. Inventories accounted
for using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method as of 2015 and 2014 year end approximated 57% and 58%, respectively, of total inventories. All other inventories are accounted for using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method.
The company’s LIFO reserve was $73.3 million and $72.6 million as of 2015 and 2014 year end, respectively.

As of 2015
year end, notes payable totaled $18.4 million; there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of 2015 year end. Notes payable of $56.6 million as of 2014 year end included $37.0 million of commercial paper borrowings and $19.6 million of
other notes. There were no current maturities of long-term debt as of 2015 and 2014 year end.

Average notes payable
outstanding were $78.5 million in 2015 and $45.4 million in 2014. The weighted-average interest rate on notes payable was 4.36% in 2015 and 5.42% in 2014. As of 2015 and 2014 year end, the weighted-average interest rate on outstanding notes payable
was 15.82% and 4.86%, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates in both years reflect local borrowings in emerging growth markets where interest rates are generally higher. The lower weighted-average interest rate of 4.86% on outstanding
notes payable as of 2014 year end benefited from lower interest rates on commercial paper borrowings; no commercial paper was outstanding at 2015 year end.

Accounts payable of $148.3 million as of 2015 year end compared to $145.0 million at 2014 year end; excluding $5.1 million of currency translation impacts, accounts payable increased $8.4 million
primarily due to the timing of payments and accounts payable related to Ecotechnics.

Other accrued liabilities of $296.3
million as of 2015 year end compared to $298.3 million at 2014 year end; excluding $10.3 million of currency translation impacts, other accrued liabilities increased $8.3 million.

Long-term debt of $861.7 million as of 2015 year end consisted of (i) $150 million of unsecured 5.50% notes that mature on
January 15, 2017; (ii) $250 million of unsecured 4.25% notes that mature in 2018; (iii) $200 million of unsecured 6.70% notes that mature in 2019; (iv) $250 million of unsecured 6.125% notes that mature in 2021; and
(v) $11.7 million of other long-term debt, including fair value adjustments related to interest rate swaps. As of 2015 year end, the $150 million of unsecured notes that mature on January 15, 2017, were included in “Long-term
debt” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as their scheduled maturity was in excess of one year of the 2015 year-end balance sheet date.

On December 15, 2015, Snap-on amended and restated its $700 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that was set to terminate on September 27, 2018, by entering into a new five-year,
$700 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that terminates on December 15, 2020 (the “Credit Facility”); no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Facility as of 2015 year end. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear
interest at varying rates based on Snap-on’s then-current, long-term debt ratings. The Credit Facility’s financial covenant requires that Snap-on maintain, as of each fiscal quarter end, either (i) a ratio not greater than 0.60 to
1.00 of consolidated net debt (consolidated debt net of certain cash adjustments) to the sum of such consolidated net debt plus total equity and less accumulated other comprehensive income or loss (the “Debt Ratio”); or (ii) a ratio
not greater than 3.50 to 1.00 of such consolidated net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain other adjustments for the preceding four fiscal quarters then ended (the “Debt to EBITDA Ratio”).
Snap-on may, up to two times during any five-year period during the term of the Credit Facility (including any extensions thereof), increase the maximum Debt Ratio to 0.65 to 1.00 and/or increase the maximum Debt to EBITDA Ratio to 3.75 to 1.00 for
four consecutive fiscal quarters in connection with certain material acquisitions (as defined in the related credit agreement). As of 2015 year end, the company’s actual ratios of 0.23 and 0.95, respectively, were both within the permitted
ranges set forth in this financial covenant.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Snap-on’s Credit Facility and other debt agreements also contain certain usual and
customary borrowing, affirmative, negative and maintenance covenants. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on was in compliance with all covenants of its Credit Facility and other debt agreements.

Snap-on believes it has sufficient available cash and access to both committed and uncommitted credit facilities to cover its expected
funding needs on both a short-term and long-term basis. Snap-on manages its aggregate short-term borrowings so as not to exceed its availability under the revolving Credit Facility.

Snap-on

believes that it
could access short-term debt markets, predominantly through commercial paper issuances and existing lines of credit, to fund its short-term requirements and to ensure near-term liquidity. Snap-on regularly monitors the credit and financial markets
and, in the future, may take advantage of what it believes are favorable market conditions to issue long-term debt to further improve its liquidity and capital resources. Near-term liquidity requirements for Snap-on include payments of interest and
dividends, scheduled debt payments (including the January 15, 2017 repayment of $150 million of unsecured notes at maturity), funding to support new receivables originated by our financial services businesses, capital expenditures, working
capital, restructuring activities, the funding of pension plans, and funding for share repurchases and acquisitions, as they arise. Snap-on intends to make contributions of $7.4 million to its foreign pension plans and $2.0 million to its domestic
pension plans in 2016, as required by law. Depending on market and other conditions, Snap-on may make discretionary cash contributions to its pension plans in 2016.

Snap-on’s long-term financing strategy is to maintain continuous access to the debt markets to accommodate its liquidity needs, including the use of commercial paper, additional fixed-term debt
and/or securitizations.

The following discussion focuses on information included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities of $496.5 million in 2015 compared to $397.9 million in 2014. The $98.6 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities primarily reflects higher
2015 net earnings and net changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $392.6 million in 2013.

Depreciation expense was $57.8 million in 2015, $54.8 million in 2014 and $51.2 million in 2013. Amortization expense was $24.7 million in both 2015 and 2014, and $25.5 million in 2013. See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on goodwill and other intangible assets.

Investing Activities

Net cash used by investing activities of $306.4 million in 2015 included additions to, and collections of, finance receivables of $844.2
million and $624.8 million, respectively. Net cash used by investing activities of $273.2 million in 2014 included additions to, and collections of, finance receivables of $746.2 million and $591.4 million, respectively. Net cash used by investing
activities of $250.4 million in 2013 included additions to, and collections of, finance receivables of $651.3 million and $508.8 million, respectively. Finance receivables are comprised of extended-term installment payment contracts to both
technicians and independent shop owners (i.e., franchisees’ customers) to enable them to purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan, generally with expected average payment terms of three years.

Net cash used by investing activities in 2015 included $11.8 million for the acquisition of Ecotechnics. Net cash used by
investing activities in 2014 included $41.3 million for the acquisition of Pro-Cut. Net cash used by investing activities in 2013 included $38.2 million for the acquisition of Challenger. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on acquisitions.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Capital expenditures in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $80.4 million, $80.6 million and
$70.6 million, respectively. Capital expenditures in all three years included investments to support the company’s execution of its Value Creation Processes and strategic growth initiatives. The company also invested in (i) new product,
efficiency, safety and cost reduction initiatives to expand and improve its manufacturing capabilities worldwide; (ii) new production and machine tooling to enhance manufacturing operations, as well as ongoing replacements of manufacturing and
distribution equipment, particularly in the United States; (iii) the ongoing replacement and enhancement of the company’s global enterprise resource planning (ERP) management information systems; and (iv) improvements in the
company’s corporate headquarters and research and development facilities in Kenosha, Wisconsin. In 2015, the company also acquired a previously leased U.K. manufacturing facility. Snap-on believes that its cash generated from operations, as
well as its available cash on hand and funds available from its credit facilities will be sufficient to fund the company’s capital expenditure requirements in 2016.

Financing Activities

Net cash used by financing activities of $226.0
million in 2015 included the net repayment of $34.0 million of notes payable and other short-term borrowings. Net cash used by financing activities of $206.9 million in 2014 included the repayment of $100.0 million of unsecured notes at maturity,
partially offset by $45.0 million of proceeds from a net increase in notes payable and other short-term borrowings. Net cash used by financing activities was $137.8 million in 2013.

Proceeds from stock purchase and option plan exercises totaled $41.6 million in 2015, $33.0 million in 2014 and $29.2 million in 2013.

Snap-on

has undertaken stock repurchases from time to time to offset dilution created by shares issued for employee and franchisee stock purchase plans, stock options and other corporate purposes. In 2015, Snap-on
repurchased 723,000 shares of its common stock for $110.4 million under its previously announced share repurchase programs. As of 2015 year end,

Snap-on

had remaining availability to repurchase up to an
additional $230.6 million in common stock pursuant to its Board of Directors’ (the “Board”) authorizations. The purchase of

Snap-on

common stock is at the company’s discretion, subject to
prevailing financial and market conditions. Snap-on repurchased 680,000 shares of its common stock for $79.3 million in 2014 and Snap-on repurchased 926,000 shares of its common stock for $82.6 million in 2013.

Snap-on

believes that its cash generated from operations, available cash on hand, and funds available from its credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund the company’s share repurchases, if any, in
2016.

Snap-on has paid consecutive quarterly cash dividends, without interruption or reduction, since 1939. Cash dividends
paid in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $127.9 million, $107.6 million and $92.0 million, respectively. On November 9, 2015, the company announced that its Board increased the quarterly cash dividend by 15.1% to $0.61 per share ($2.44 per share
annualized). Quarterly dividends in 2015 were $0.61 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.53 per share in the first three quarters ($2.20 per share for the year). Quarterly dividends in 2014 were $0.53 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.44 per
share in the first three quarters ($1.85 per share for the year). Quarterly dividends in 2013 were $0.44 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.38 per share in the first three quarters ($1.58 per share for the year).




Cash dividends paid per common share

$

2.20

$

1.85

$

1.58

Cash dividends paid as a percent of prior-year retained earnings

4.8%

4.6%

4.5%

Snap-on believes that its cash generated from operations, available cash on hand and funds available from
its credit facilities will be sufficient to pay dividends in 2016.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

Except as included below in the section labeled “Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, the company had no off-balance-sheet arrangements as of 2015 year end.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

A summary of Snap-on’s future contractual obligations and commitments as of 2015 year end are as follows:

Snap-on intends to make contributions of $7.4 million to its foreign pension plans and $2.0 million to
its domestic pension plans in 2016, as required by law. Depending on market and other conditions, Snap-on may make discretionary cash contributions to its pension plans in 2016. Snap-on has not presented estimated pension and
postretirement funding contributions in the table above as the funding can vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of the plan assets and actuarial assumptions; see Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on the company’s benefit plans and payments.

Due to the uncertainty of the timing of settlements
with taxing authorities, Snap-on is unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement of unrecognized tax benefits for its remaining uncertain tax liabilities. As a result, $7.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits have
been excluded from the table above; see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income taxes.

Environmental
Matters

Snap-on is subject to various federal, state and local government requirements regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Snap-on’s policy is to comply with these requirements and the company believes that, as a general matter, its policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with its business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of Snap-on’s operations and products,
as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.

Snap-on is and has been engaged in the handling, manufacture,
use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. Snap-on believes that, as a general matter, its handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accordance with environmental
laws and regulations. It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could
bring into question the company’s handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.

Affordable Care Act

The Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”), which was adopted in 2010 and continues to be phased in, significantly affects the
provision of both health care services and benefits in the United States; the ACA may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. The ACA
did not have a material impact on our fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013 financial results.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on new accounting standards.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes contain information that is pertinent to management’s discussion and
analysis. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are generally based on
historical experience, current conditions and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that
are not readily available from other sources, as well as identifying and assessing our accounting treatment with respect to commitments and contingencies. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

In addition to the company’s significant accounting policies described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,

Snap-on

considers the following policies and estimates to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in the preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements and the
uncertainties that could impact the company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Impairment of
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets:

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired.
Annual impairment tests are performed by the company in the second quarter of each year using information available as of fiscal April month end.

Snap-on

evaluates the recoverability of goodwill by estimating the future discounted cash flows of the businesses to which the goodwill relates. Estimated cash
flows and related goodwill are grouped at the reporting unit level. The company has determined that its reporting units for testing goodwill impairment are its operating segments or components of an operating segment that constitute a business for
which discrete financial information is available and for which segment management regularly reviews the operating results. Within its four reportable operating segments, the company has identified 11 reporting units.

Snap-on

evaluates the recoverability of goodwill by utilizing an income approach that estimates
the fair value of the future discounted cash flows of the reporting units to which the goodwill relates. The future projections, which are based on both past performance and the projections and assumptions used in the company’s operating plans,
are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. This approach reflects management’s internal outlook at the reporting units, which management believes provides the best determination of value due to
management’s insight and experience with the reporting unit. Significant estimates used by management in the discounted cash flows methodology include estimates of future cash flows based on expected growth rates, price increases, working
capital levels, expected benefits from RCI initiatives, and a weighted-average cost of capital that reflects the specific risk profile of the reporting unit being tested. The company’s methodologies for valuing goodwill are applied consistently
on a year-over-year basis; the assumptions used in performing the second quarter 2015 impairment calculations were evaluated in light of then-current market and business conditions. Snap-on continues to believe that the future discounted cash flow
valuation model provides the most reasonable and meaningful fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ projections of future operating results and cash flows and replicates how market participants would value the company’s
reporting units in an orderly transaction.

In the event the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value,
including goodwill, the company would then perform an additional assessment that would compare the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. The determination of implied fair value of goodwill would require management to
compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit; if necessary, the company may consult with valuation specialists to assist with the assessment of the estimated
fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. If the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss would be recorded.

Snap-on

also evaluates the recoverability of its indefinite-lived trademarks by utilizing an
income approach that estimates the fair value of the future discounted cash flows of each of its trademarks. The future projections, which are based on both past performance and the projections and assumptions used in the company’s operating
plans, are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. Significant estimates used by management in the discounted cash flows methodology include estimates of future cash flows based on expected growth and royalty
rates, expected synergies, and a weighted-average cost of capital that reflects the specific risk profile of the trademark being tested. The company’s methodologies for valuing trademarks are applied consistently on a year-over-year basis; the
assumptions used in performing the second quarter 2015 impairment calculations were evaluated in light of then-current market and business conditions. Snap-on continues to believe that the future discounted cash flow valuation model provides the
most reasonable and meaningful fair value estimate based upon the trademarks’ projected future cash flows and replicates how market participants would value the company’s trademarks in an orderly transaction.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(continued)

Inherent in fair value determinations are significant judgments and estimates, including
material assumptions about future revenue, profitability and cash flows, the company’s operational plans and its interpretation of current economic indicators. Should the operations of the businesses with which goodwill or other
indefinite-lived intangible assets are associated incur significant declines in profitability and cash flow due to significant and long-term deterioration in macroeconomic, industry and market conditions, the loss of key customers, changes in
technology or markets, significant changes in key personnel or litigation, a significant and sustained decrease in share price and/or other events, including effects from the sale or disposal of a reporting unit, some or all of the recorded goodwill
or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could be subject to impairment and could result in a material adverse effect on Snap-on’s financial position or results of operations.

Snap-on

completed its annual impairment testing of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible
assets in the second quarter of 2015, the results of which did not result in any impairment. As of 2015 year end, the company has no accumulated impairment losses. Although the company consistently uses the same methods in developing the assumptions
and estimates underlying the fair value calculations, such estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. In performing its annual impairment testing the company performed a sensitivity analysis on the material assumptions used
in the discounted cash flow valuation models for each of its 11 reporting units. Based on the company’s second quarter 2015 impairment testing and assuming a hypothetical 10% decrease in the estimated fair values of each of its 11 reporting
units, the hypothetical fair value of each of the company’s 11 reporting units would have been greater than its carrying value. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about goodwill and other intangible
assets.

Impairment of Long-lived and Amortized Intangible Assets:

Snap-on performs impairment evaluations of its
long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, whenever business conditions or events indicate that those assets may be impaired. When the estimated future undiscounted cash flows to be generated
by the assets are less than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the assets are written down to fair market value and a charge is recorded to current operations.

Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant declines in profitability and cash flow due to significant and long-term deterioration in macroeconomic, industry and market
conditions, the loss of key customers, changes in technology or markets and/or other events, including effects from the sale or disposal of a reporting unit, could require a provision for impairment in a future period.

Pension Benefits:

The pension benefit obligation and related pension expense are calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are
impacted by certain actuarial assumptions. Changes in these assumptions are primarily influenced by factors outside of

Snap-on’s

control and can have a significant effect on the amounts reported in the
financial statements.

Snap-on

believes that the two most critical assumptions are (i) the expected return on plan assets; and (ii) the assumed discount rate.

Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. Lowering the expected rate of return assumption for
Snap-on’s domestic pension plan assets by 50 bps would have increased Snap-on’s 2015 domestic pension expense by approximately $4.6 million. Snap-on uses a three-year, market-related value asset method of amortizing the difference between
actual and expected returns on its domestic plans’ assets.

The objective of Snap-on’s discount rate assumption is
to reflect the rate at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. In making this determination, the company takes into account the timing and amount of benefits that would be available under the plans. The domestic discount
rate as of 2015 and 2014 year end was selected based on a cash flow matching methodology developed by the company’s outside actuaries and which incorporates a review of current economic conditions. This methodology matches the plans’
yearly projected cash flows for benefits and, starting in 2015, service costs to those of hypothetical bond portfolios using high-quality, AA rated or better, corporate bonds from either Moody’s Investors Service or Standard &
Poor’s credit rating agencies available at the measurement date. This technique calculates bond portfolios that produce adequate cash flows to pay the plans’ projected yearly benefits and then selects the portfolio with the highest
yield and uses that yield as the recommended discount rate.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The selection of the 4.7% weighted-average discount rate for Snap-on’s domestic
pension plans as of 2015 year end represents the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows as the estimated benefit plan payments. Lowering Snap-on’s domestic discount rate assumption by 50 bps would have increased

Snap-on’s

2015 domestic pension expense and projected benefit obligation by approximately $6.1 million and $59.2 million, respectively. As of 2015 year end,

Snap-on’s

domestic projected benefit obligation comprised approximately 83% of Snap-on’s worldwide projected benefit obligation. The weighted-average discount rate for Snap-on’s foreign
pension plans of 3.7% represents the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows as the estimated benefit plan payments. Lowering Snap-on’s foreign discount rate assumption by 50 bps would have increased

Snap-on’s

2015 foreign pension expense and projected benefit obligation by approximately $1.7 million and $20.7 million, respectively.

Actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or market-related value of assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining
service period of active participants or over the average remaining life expectancy for plans with primarily inactive participants. Prior service costs and credits resulting from plan amendments are amortized in equal annual amounts over the average
remaining service period of active participants or over the average remaining life expectancy for plans with primarily inactive participants. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on pension plans.

Outlook

Snap-on
expects to make continued progress in 2016 along its defined runways for coherent growth, leveraging capabilities already demonstrated in the automotive repair arena and developing and expanding its professional customer base, not only in automotive
repair, but in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In pursuit of these initiatives, Snap-on expects that capital expenditures in 2016 will
be in a range of $80 million to $90 million. Snap-on also anticipates that its full year 2016 effective income tax rate will be comparable to its 2015 full year rate.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market, Credit and Economic Risks

Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.

Snap-on

is exposed to market risk from
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.

Snap-on

is also exposed to market risk associated with the stock-based portion of its deferred compensation plans. Snap-on monitors its exposure
to these risks and attempts to manage the underlying economic exposures through the use of financial instruments such as foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swap agreements, treasury lock agreements and prepaid equity forward
agreements (“equity forwards”). Snap-on does not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. Snap-on’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related
areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole.

Snap-on’s

management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative
and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks.

Foreign Currency Risk Management

Snap-on

has significant international operations and is subject to certain risks
inherent with foreign operations that include currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange risk exists to the extent that

Snap-on

has payment obligations or receipts denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency, including intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. To manage these exposures,

Snap-on

identifies naturally offsetting positions and then purchases hedging instruments to
protect the residual net exposures. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on foreign currency risk management.

Interest Rate Risk Management

Snap-on aims to control funding costs by managing the exposure created by the differing maturities and interest rate structures of Snap-on’s borrowings through the use of interest rate swap
agreements. Treasury lock agreements are used from time to time to manage potential changes in interest rates in anticipation of the issuance or sale of certain financial instruments. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on interest rate risk management.

Snap-on utilizes a Value-at-Risk (“VAR”) model to determine the
potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate and foreign exchange-sensitive financial instruments from adverse changes in market factors. The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence
level. Snap-on’s computations are based on the inter-relationships among movements in various currencies and interest rates (variance/co-variance technique). These inter-relationships were determined by observing interest rate and foreign
currency market changes over the preceding quarter.

The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value, calculated
using the VAR model, as of 2015 and 2014 year end was $0.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively, on interest rate-sensitive financial instruments, and $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, on foreign currency-sensitive financial
instruments. The VAR model is a risk management tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by

Snap-on,

nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable
changes in market factors.

Stock-based Deferred Compensation Risk Management

Snap-on aims to manage market risk associated with the stock-based portion of its deferred compensation plans through the use of equity
forwards. Equity forwards are used to aid in offsetting the potential mark-to-market effect on stock-based deferred compensation from changes in Snap-on’s stock price. Since stock-based deferred compensation liabilities increase as the
company’s stock price rises and decrease as the company’s stock price declines, the equity forwards are intended to mitigate the potential impact on compensation expense that may result from such mark-to-market changes. See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on stock-based deferred compensation risk management.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Credit Risk

Credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer’s failure to make payments according to contract terms. Prior to extending credit, each customer is evaluated, taking into consideration the
customer’s financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, credit bureau information, and other financial and qualitative factors that may affect the customer’s ability to repay. Credit risk is also
monitored regularly through the use of internal proprietary, custom scoring models used to evaluate each transaction at the time of the application for credit and by periodically updating those credit scores for ongoing monitoring purposes. Snap-on
evaluates credit quality through the use of an internal proprietary measuring system that provides a framework to analyze finance and contract receivables on the basis of risk factors of the individual obligor as well as transaction specific risk.
The finance and contract receivables are typically monitored through an asset quality review process that closely monitors past due accounts and initiates a progressive collection action process when appropriate.

Counterparty Risk

Snap-on

is exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its various financial agreements, including its foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swap agreements and
prepaid equity forward agreements.

Snap-on

does not obtain collateral or other security to support financial instruments subject to credit risk, but monitors the credit standing of the counterparties and
generally enters into agreements with financial institution counterparties with a credit rating of A- or better. Snap-on does not anticipate non-performance by its counterparties, but cannot provide assurances.

Economic Risk

Economic
risk is the possibility of loss resulting from economic instability in certain areas of the world.

Snap-on

continually monitors its exposure in these markets. Inflation has not had a significant impact on the
company.

As a result of the above market, credit and economic risks, net earnings and revenues in any particular period may
not be representative of full-year results and may vary significantly from year to year.

Commodity Risk

Snap-on

is a purchaser of certain commodities such as steel, natural gas and electricity. The
company is also a purchaser of components and parts that are integrated into the company’s end products, as well as the purchaser of certain finished goods, all of which may contain various commodities including steel, aluminum and
others.

Snap-on’s

supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers.

The principal raw material used in the manufacture of the company’s products is steel, which the company purchases in competitive, price-sensitive markets. To meet Snap-on’s high quality
standards, the company’s steel needs range from specialized alloys, which are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity types of alloys. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality.
Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply, particularly in the event of a general economic recovery, mill shutdowns or production cut backs. As some steel alloys require specialized manufacturing procedures,

Snap-on

could experience inventory shortages if it were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. Additionally, unexpected price increases for raw materials could result in higher prices to

Snap-on’s

customers or an erosion of the margins on its products.

Snap-on

believes its ability to sell product is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. These factors affect the frequency, type and amount
of service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and, consequently, the demand technicians have for the company’s tools, other products
and services, and the value technicians place on those products and services. The use of other methods of transportation, including more frequent use of public transportation, could result in a decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles. A
decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for the company’s products.

To the extent that commodity prices increase and the company does not have firm pricing agreements with its suppliers, the company may
experience margin declines to the extent that it is not able to increase the selling prices of its products.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and schedules are listed in Item 15(a) and are incorporated by reference into this Item 8.

Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A: Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Snap-on

maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is timely
communicated to the officers who certify

Snap-on’s

financial reports and to other members of senior management and the Board, as appropriate.

In accordance with Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the company’s management
evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under
the Exchange Act) as of January 2, 2016. Based upon their evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
January 2, 2016, to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time period specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control

There has not been any change in
the company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended January 2, 2016, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting
(as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)).

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework
(2013)

. Based on this assessment, the company’s management believes that, as of January 2, 2016, our internal control over financial reporting was effective at a reasonable assurance level. The company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of January 2, 2016, has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report, which is included herein.

Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over
financial reporting will prevent all error or fraud. Because of inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, because of
changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting may vary over time.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Snap-on Incorporated:

We have audited the internal control over financial
reporting of Snap-on Incorporated and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 2, 2016, based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the
inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 2, 2016, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended January 2, 2016, and our report dated February 11, 2016, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 11, 2016

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Item 9B: Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Incorporated by reference to sections entitled “Item 1: Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance Practices and Board
Information” and “Other Information” in Snap-on’s 2016 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, which is expected to be mailed to shareholders on or about March 11, 2016 (the “2016 Proxy Statement”).

The Section 16(a) filing compliance disclosure pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is contained in Snap-on’s 2016 Proxy
Statement in the section entitled “Other Information – Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding Snap-on’s executive officers, including their ages, business experience (for at least the last five years) and titles as of January 2, 2016, is presented below:

Nicholas T. Pinchuk

(69) – Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2009, President and Chief Executive Officer since
December 2007 and President and Chief Operating Officer from April to December 2007. Senior Vice President and President – Worldwide Commercial & Industrial Group from 2002 to 2007. Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Pinchuk held
various positions, including President of Global Refrigeration Operations and President of Asia Pacific Operations, at Carrier Corporation, a producer of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration systems, and a subsidiary of United Technologies
Corporation. Mr. Pinchuk serves on the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation.

Aldo J. Pagliari

(61) – Senior Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer since 2010. President – Snap-on Equipment from 2007 to 2010, and Group Controller / Director of Finance – Commercial & Industrial Group from
2002 to 2007.

Anup R. Banerjee

(65) – Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Chief Development Officer
since August 2015. President, Commercial Group from 2011 to August 2015 and Vice President, Operations Process from 2007 to 2011.

Iain Boyd

(53) – Vice President, Operations Development since August 2015. Vice President – Human Resources from 2007 to August 2015.

Constance R. Johnsen

(58) – Vice President and Controller since 2003.

Thomas L

.

Kassouf

(63) – Senior Vice President and President – Snap-on Tools Group since 2010. Senior Vice
President and President – Commercial Division from 2007 to 2010.

Jeanne M. Moreno

(61) – Vice President and Chief
Information Officer since 2005.

Irwin M. Shur

(57) – Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 2008.

Thomas J. Ward

(63)

–

Senior Vice President and President – Repair Systems & Information Group
since 2010. Senior Vice President and President – Snap-on Tools Group from 2007 to 2010.

There is no family relationship
among the executive officers and there has been no involvement in legal proceedings during the past ten years that would be material to the evaluation of the ability or integrity of any of the executive officers. Executive officers may either be
elected by the Board or may be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer at the regular meeting of the Board that follows the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, which is ordinarily held in April each year, or at such other times as new positions are
created or vacancies must be filled.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Code of Ethics and Website Disclosure

Snap-on

has adopted a written code of ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Vice President and Controller, and all other financial officers and executives performing similar functions.

Snap-on

has posted a copy of the code of ethics in the Investors/Corporate
Governance section on the company’s website at

www.snapon.com

.

Snap-on

will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers
with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on the company’s website at

www.snapon.com

.

Snap-on

intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the code of ethics by posting such information in the “Investors” section of
its corporate website at

www.snapon.com

.

Item 11: Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is contained in Snap-on’s 2016 Proxy Statement in the sections entitled “Executive
Compensation,” “Board Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Report,” and “Other Information” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The following table sets forth information about Snap-on’s equity compensation plans at 2015 year end:

Plan category

Number of securities

to be issued upon

exercise of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

(a)

Weighted-average

exercise
 price of

outstanding

options,

warrants
and

rights

(b)

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

equity
compensation

plans (excluding securities

reflected in column (a))

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

3,141,106

(1)

$     90.81

(2)

5,995,188

(3)

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

61,006

(4)

Not Applicable

–

(5)

Total

3,202,112

$     90.81

(2)

5,995,188

(5)

(1)

Includes (i) options to acquire 779,225 shares granted under the 2001 Incentive Stock and Awards Plan (the “2001 Plan”);
(ii) options and stock appreciation rights to acquire 2,300,541 shares granted under the 2011 Incentive Stock and Awards Plan (the “2011 Plan,” and collectively with the 2001 Plan, the “Incentive Plans”); and
(iii) 61,340 shares represented by deferred share units under the Directors’ Fee Plan. Excludes 63,886 shares issuable in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock under the 2001 Plan, and 382,663 shares
issuable in connection with the vesting of performance share awards, restricted stock units and restricted stock under the 2011 Plan. Also excludes shares of common stock that may be issuable under the employee and franchisee stock purchase plans.

(2)

Reflects only the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Incentive Plans and
does not include shares represented by deferred share units under the Directors’ Fee Plan and shares issuable in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units or performance units under the Incentive Plans for which there are no
exercise prices. Also excludes shares of common stock that may be issuable under the employee and franchisee stock purchase plans.

(3)

Includes (i) 5,031,957 shares reserved for issuance under the 2011 Plan; (ii) 155,512 shares reserved for issuance under the
Directors’ Fee Plan; and (iii) 807,719 shares reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan. No further awards may be granted under the 2001 Plan.

(4)

Consists of deferred share units under Snap-on’s Deferred Compensation Plan, which allows elected and appointed officers of Snap-on to defer
all or a percentage of their respective annual salary and/or incentive compensation. The deferred share units are payable in shares of

Snap-on

common stock on a one-for-one basis and are calculated at fair
market value. Shares of common stock delivered under the Deferred Compensation Plan are previously issued shares reacquired and held by Snap-on.

(5)

The Deferred Compensation Plan provides that Snap-on will make available, as and when required, a sufficient number of shares of common stock to
meet the needs of the plan. It further provides that such shares shall be previously issued shares reacquired and held by

Snap-on.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



The additional information required by Item 12 is contained in Snap-on’s 2016
Proxy Statement in the sections entitled “Executive Compensation,” “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and “Other Information,” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled “Corporate Governance Practices and Board Information – Board
Information” and “Other Information – Transactions with the Company” in

Snap-on’s

2016 Proxy Statement.

Item 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Incorporated by reference to the section entitled “Deloitte & Touche LLP Fee Disclosure” in Snap-on’s 2016 Proxy Statement.

PART IV

Item 15: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15(a): Documents Filed as Part of This Report:

1. List of Financial
Statements

Unless otherwise indicated, references to “fiscal 2015” or “2015” refer to the fiscal year
ended January 2, 2016; references to “fiscal 2014” or “2014” refer to the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015; and references to “fiscal 2013” or “2013” refer to the fiscal year ended December 28,
2013. References to 2015, 2014 and 2013 year end refer to January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013, respectively.

The following consolidated financial statements of

Snap-on

and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm thereon, are filed as part of this
report:

•

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

•

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the 2015, 2014 and 2013 fiscal years.

•

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the 2015, 2014 and 2013 fiscal years.

•

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014 year end.

•

Consolidated Statements of Equity for the 2015, 2014 and 2013 fiscal years.

•

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the 2015, 2014 and 2013 fiscal years.

•

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

All schedules are omitted because they
are not applicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

3. List of Exhibits

The exhibits filed with or incorporated by reference in this report are as specified in the exhibit index included
herein.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Snap-on Incorporated:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Snap-on Incorporated and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 2, 2016, and January 3, 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended January 2, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of

Snap-on

Incorporated and subsidiaries as of January 2, 2016, and January 3, 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 2, 2016, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
2016, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 11, 2016 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 11, 2016

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Consolidated Statements of Earnings

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

* There is no reclassification adjustment as there was no sale or liquidation of any foreign entity during any period
presented.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Consolidated Balance Sheets

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Consolidated Statements of Equity

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1: Summary of Accounting Policies

Principles of consolidation and presentation:

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of

Snap-on

Incorporated and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively, “Snap-on” or “the company”).

Snap-on

accounts for investments in unconsolidated affiliates where

Snap-on

has a greater than 20% but less than 50%
ownership interest under the equity method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates was $13.3 million as of both year-end 2015 and 2014, and are included in “Other assets” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. No
equity investment dividends were received in any period presented. In the normal course of business, the company may purchase products or services from unconsolidated affiliates; purchases from unconsolidated affiliates were $13.4 million, $15.6
million and $16.0 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Consolidated Financial Statements do not include the accounts of the company’s independent franchisees.

Snap-on’s

Consolidated
Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Fiscal year accounting period:

Snap-on’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. The 2015
fiscal year ended on January 2, 2016 (“2015”) and contained 52 weeks of operating results. The 2014 fiscal year ended on January 3, 2015 (“2014”) and contained 53 weeks of operating results, with the extra week
occurring in the fourth quarter; the impact of the additional week of operations was not material to Snap-on’s 2014 net sales or net earnings. The 2013 fiscal year ended on December 28, 2013 (“2013”) and contained 52 weeks of
operating results.

Use of estimates:

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Financial instruments:

The fair value
of the company’s derivative financial instruments is generally determined using quoted prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities. The carrying value of the company’s non-derivative financial instruments either
approximates fair value, due to their short-term nature, or the amount disclosed for fair value is based upon a discounted cash flow analysis or quoted market values. See Note 10 for further information on financial instruments.

Revenue recognition:

Snap-on recognizes revenue from the sale of tools and diagnostic and equipment products when contract terms
are met, the price is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and a product is shipped or risk of ownership has been transferred to and accepted by the customer. For sales contingent upon customer acceptance, revenue recognition
is deferred until such obligations are fulfilled. Estimated product returns are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of sale based upon historical product return experience and gross profit margin adjusted for known trends.
Provisions for customer volume rebates, discounts and allowances are also recorded as a reduction of reported revenues at the time of sale based on historical experience and known trends. Revenue related to maintenance, extended warranty and
subscription agreements is recognized over the terms of the respective agreements.

Snap-on also recognizes revenue related to
multiple element arrangements, including sales of hardware, software and software-related services. When a sales arrangement contains multiple elements, such as hardware and software products and/or services,

Snap-on

uses the relative selling price method to allocate revenues between hardware and software elements. For software elements that are not essential to the hardware’s functionality and related
software post-contract customer support, vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value is used to further allocate revenue to each element based on its relative fair value and, when necessary, the residual method is used to
assign value to the delivered elements when VSOE only exists for the undelivered elements. The amount assigned to the products or services is recognized when the product is delivered and/or when the services are performed. In instances where the
product and/or services are performed over an extended period, as is the case with subscription agreements or the providing of ongoing support, revenue is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement, which generally
ranges from 12 to 60 months.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial fees, is recognized
upon the granting of a franchise, which is when the company has performed substantially all initial services required by the franchise agreement. Franchise fee revenue also includes ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training as
well as marketing and product promotion programs) that are recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $12.7 million, $12.1 million and $11.9 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Financial services revenue:

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment
sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees’ customers and Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business
loans and vehicle leases to franchisees. These financing programs are offered through

Snap-on’s

wholly owned finance subsidiaries. Financial services revenue consists primarily of interest income on
finance and contract receivables and is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.

The decision to finance through

Snap-on

or another financing entity is solely at the election of
the customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay including customers’ financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, credit bureau
information and proprietary credit models. For finance and contract receivables,

Snap-on

assesses these factors through the use of credit quality indicators consisting primarily of customer credit risk scores
combined with internal credit risk grades, collection experience and other internal metrics.

Financial services lease
arrangements:

Snap-on accounts for its financial services leases as direct financing or sales-type leases. The company determines the gross investment in the lease as the present value of the minimum lease payments using the interest rate
implicit in the lease, net of amounts, if any, included therein for executor costs to be paid by

Snap-on,

together with any profit thereon. The difference between the gross investment in the lease and the
related undiscounted minimum lease payments for the leased property is reported as unearned finance charges. Unearned finance charges are amortized to income over the life of the contract. The default covenants included in the lease arrangements are
usual and customary, consistent with industry practice, and do not impact the lease classification. Except in circumstances where the company has concluded that a lessee’s financial condition has deteriorated, the other default covenants under
Snap-on’s lease arrangements are objectively determinable.

Research and engineering:

Snap-on

incurred research and engineering costs of $49.3 million, $52.4 million and $48.4 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Research and engineering costs are included in “Operating expenses”
on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Internally developed software:

Costs incurred in the
development of software that will ultimately be sold are capitalized from the time technological feasibility has been attained and capitalization ceases when the related product is ready for general release. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, Snap-on
capitalized $14.9 million, $19.0 million and $19.0 million, respectively, of such costs. Amortization of capitalized software development costs, which is included in “Cost of goods sold” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Earnings, was $14.0 million in 2015, $13.6 million in 2014 and $14.9 million in 2013. Unamortized capitalized software development costs of $50.4 million as of 2015 year end and $50.2 million as of 2014 year end are included in “Other
intangibles – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Internal-use software:

Costs that are
incurred in creating software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are capitalized only during the application development stage of the project.

Shipping and handling:

Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included as a component of sales. Costs incurred by Snap-on for shipping and handling are included as a component of
cost of goods sold when the costs relate to manufacturing activities. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, Snap-on incurred shipping and handling charges of $39.0 million, $40.3 million and $37.9 million, respectively, that were recorded in “Cost of goods
sold” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Shipping and handling costs incurred in conjunction with selling or distribution activities are included as a component of operating expenses. Shipping and handling charges were
$78.5 million in both 2015 and 2014, and $72.7 million in 2013; these charges were recorded in “Operating expenses” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Advertising and promotion:

Production costs of future media advertising are
deferred until the advertising occurs. All other advertising and promotion costs are expensed when incurred. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, advertising and promotion expenses totaled $54.9 million, $51.4 million and $49.9 million, respectively.
Advertising and promotion costs are included in “Operating expenses” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Warranties:

Snap-on provides product warranties for specific product lines and accrues for estimated future warranty costs in the period in which the sale is recorded. See Note 15 for information
on warranties.

Foreign currency:

The financial statements of

Snap-on’s

foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at current rates of exchange, and income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. The
resulting translation adjustments are recorded directly into “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Foreign exchange transactions, net of foreign currency hedges, resulted in pretax losses
of $2.7 million, $1.5 million and $4.4 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses are reported in “Other income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Income taxes:

Current tax assets and liabilities are based upon an estimate of taxes refundable or payable for each of
the jurisdictions in which the company is subject to tax. In the ordinary course of business, there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying income tax positions. Snap-on assesses income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to
examination based upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting dates. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained,

Snap-on

records the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those
income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized in the financial statements. When applicable, associated interest and penalties are recognized as a component of income tax
expense. Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax asset or liability on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences arising from differences in bases of assets and liabilities for tax and financial reporting purposes. Deferred income taxes are recorded
on temporary differences using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. See Note 8 for further
information on income taxes.

Per share data:

Basic earnings per share calculations were computed by dividing net
earnings attributable to

Snap-on

Incorporated by the corresponding weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. The dilutive effect of the potential exercise of outstanding options and
stock-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) to purchase common shares is calculated using the treasury stock method. As of January 2, 2016, there were 1,600 awards outstanding that were anti-dilutive; as of January 3, 2015,
and December 28, 2013, there were no outstanding awards that were anti-dilutive. Performance-based equity awards do not affect the diluted earnings per share calculation until it is determined that the applicable performance metrics have been
met. Snap-on had dilutive securities totaling 1,016,969 shares, 921,050 shares and 881,381 shares, as of the end of 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Note 13 for further information on equity awards.

Stock-based compensation:

Snap-on recognizes the cost of employee services in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on
the grant date fair value of those awards. That cost, based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to provide the service in exchange
for the award. No compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite service. The grant date fair value of employee stock options and similar instruments is estimated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

The Black-Scholes valuation model requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the
stock-based award and stock price volatility. The assumptions used are management’s best estimates, but the estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if other assumptions had been used,
the recorded stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different from that depicted in the financial statements. See Note 13 for further information on stock-based compensation.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Derivatives:

Snap-on utilizes derivative financial instruments, including foreign
currency forward contracts, interest rate swap agreements, treasury lock agreements and prepaid equity forward agreements to manage its exposures to foreign currency exchange rate risks, interest rate risks, and market risk associated with the
stock-based portion of its deferred compensation plans. Snap-on accounts for its derivative instruments at fair value. Snap-on does not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 10 for further information on
derivatives.

Cash equivalents:

Snap-on considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three
months or less to be cash equivalents. There were no cash equivalents as of 2015 year end; as of 2014 year end, cash equivalents of $2.5 million primarily consisted of money market funds. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates
market value, and are considered to be Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.

Receivables and allowances for doubtful
accounts:

All trade, finance and contract receivables are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs and net of allowances for doubtful accounts. Finance and contract
receivables also include accrued interest and contract acquisition costs, net of contract acquisition fees.

Snap-on maintains
allowances for doubtful accounts to absorb probable losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management’s estimate of the losses inherent in the company’s receivables portfolio based
on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. In estimating losses inherent in each of its receivable portfolios (trade, finance and contract receivables), Snap-on uses historical loss experience rates by
portfolio and applies them to a related aging analysis. Determination of the proper level of allowances by portfolio requires management to exercise significant judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially
affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net earnings. The allowances for doubtful accounts takes into consideration numerous quantitative and qualitative factors, by receivable type, including historical loss experience, collection
experience, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality as follows:

•

Snap-on

evaluates the collectability of receivables based on a combination of various financial and
qualitative factors that may affect the customers’ ability to pay. These factors may include customers’ financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.

•

For finance and contract receivables, Snap-on assesses quantitative and qualitative factors through the use of credit quality indicators consisting
primarily of collection experience and other internal metrics as follows:

•

Collection experience – Snap-on conducts monthly reviews of credit and collection performance for each of its finance and contract receivable
portfolios focusing on data such as delinquency trends, non-performing assets, and charge-off and recovery activity. These reviews allow for the formulation of collection strategies and potential collection policy modifications in response to
changing risk profiles in the finance and contract receivable portfolios.

•

Other internal metrics – Snap-on maintains a system that aggregates credit exposure by customer, risk classification and geographical area,
among other factors, to further monitor changing risk profiles.

Management performs detailed reviews of its
receivables on a monthly and/or quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowances based on historical and current trends and other factors affecting credit losses and to determine if any impairment has occurred. A receivable is impaired when
it is probable that all amounts related to the receivable will not be collected according to the contractual terms of the agreement. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained through adjustments to the provision for credit
losses, which are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectable are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on previously charged-off accounts increase the allowances. Net charge-offs include the
principal amount of losses charged-off as well as charged-off interest and fees. Recovered interest and fees previously charged-off are recorded through the allowances for doubtful accounts and increase the allowances. Finance receivables are
assessed for charge-off when an account becomes 120 days past due and are charged-off typically within 60 days of asset repossession. Contract receivables related to equipment leases are generally charged-off when an account becomes 150 days past
due, while contract receivables related to franchise finance and van leases are generally charged-off up to 180 days past the asset return date. For finance and contract receivables, customer bankruptcies are generally charged-off upon notification
that the associated debt is not being reaffirmed or, in any event, no later than 180 days past due.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Snap-on does not believe that its trade accounts, finance or contract receivables
represent significant concentrations of credit risk because of the diversified portfolio of individual customers and geographical areas. See Note 3 for further information on receivables and allowances for doubtful accounts.

Other accrued liabilities:

Supplemental balance sheet information for “Other accrued liabilities” as of 2015 and 2014
year end is as follows:

Inventories:

Snap-on values its inventory at the lower of cost or market and adjusts for the value
of inventory that is estimated to be excess, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. Snap-on records allowances for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future demand and market conditions. Allowances for raw materials are
largely based on an analysis of raw material age and actual physical inspection of raw material for fitness for use. As part of evaluating the adequacy of allowances for work-in-progress and finished goods, management reviews individual product
stock-keeping units (SKUs) by product category and product life cycle. Cost adjustments for each product category/product life-cycle state are generally established and maintained based on a combination of historical experience, forecasted sales and
promotions, technological obsolescence, inventory age and other actual known conditions and circumstances. Should actual product marketability and raw material fitness for use be affected by conditions that are different from management estimates,
further adjustments to inventory allowances may be required.

Snap-on adopted the “last-in, first-out”
(“LIFO”) inventory valuation method in 1973 for its U.S. locations. Snap-on’s U.S. inventories accounted for on a LIFO basis consist of purchased product and inventory manufactured at the company’s heritage U.S. manufacturing
facilities (primarily hand tools and tool storage). As Snap-on began acquiring businesses in the 1990’s, the company retained the “first-in, first-out” (“FIFO”) inventory valuation methodology used by the predecessor
businesses prior to their acquisition by

Snap-on;

the company does not adopt the LIFO inventory valuation methodology for new acquisitions. See Note 4 for further information on inventories.

Property and equipment:

Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and
amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives. Major repairs that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized, while routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software included in
property and equipment reflects costs related to internally developed or purchased software for internal use and is amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment when events or
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived asset may not be recoverable. See Note 5 for further information on property and equipment.

Goodwill and other intangible assets:

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets
might be impaired. Annual impairment tests are performed by the company in the second quarter of each year using information available as of fiscal April month end. Snap-on evaluates the existence of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset
impairment on the basis of whether the assets are fully recoverable from projected, discounted cash flows of the related reportable unit or asset. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives using
straight-line and accelerated methods depending on the nature of the particular asset. See Note 6 for further information on goodwill and other intangible assets.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

New accounting standards

In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
No. 2015-17,

Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes

, to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that all deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as long term on the balance sheet. The ASU is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods; the ASU allows for early adoption as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The company is currently assessing
the impact that this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2014-09,

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

, which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance,
including industry-specific guidance. The ASU is based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be
entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in
judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to fulfill a contract.

In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective
date of ASU No. 2014-09 by one year; early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The ASU will become effective for
Snap-on at the beginning of its 2018 fiscal year. Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption of the standard. The company is currently assessing the impact that this standard
will have on its consolidated financial statements.

Note 2: Acquisitions

On July 27, 2015, Snap-on acquired the assets of Ecotechnics S.p.A. (“Ecotechnics”) for a cash purchase
price of $11.8 million, which reflects the finalization of a working capital adjustment completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. Ecotechnics designs and manufactures vehicle air conditioning service equipment for original equipment manufacturer
(“OEM”) dealerships and the automotive aftermarket worldwide. The acquisition of the Ecotechnics product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing equipment product offering for OEM dealerships and independent automotive
repair shops, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities, and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

On May 28, 2014, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of Pro-Cut International, Inc. (“Pro-Cut”) for a cash purchase price of $41.3 million. Pro-Cut designs, manufactures and
distributes on-car brake lathes, related equipment and accessories used in brake servicing by automotive repair facilities. The acquisition of the Pro-Cut product line complemented and increased

Snap-on’s

existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.

On May 13, 2013, Snap-on acquired Challenger Lifts, Inc. (“Challenger”) for a cash purchase price of $38.2
million. Challenger designs, manufactures and distributes a comprehensive line of vehicle lifts and accessories to a diverse customer base in the automotive repair sector. The acquisition of the Challenger vehicle lift product line
complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing undercar equipment product offering, broadened its established capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and
managers.

For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Ecotechnics, Pro-Cut and Challenger have
been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the respective acquisition dates. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net effects of these acquisitions, both individually and collectively, were
neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Note 3: Receivables

Trade and Other Accounts Receivable

Snap-on’s trade and other accounts receivable primarily arise from the sale of tools and diagnostic and equipment products to a broad range of industrial and commercial customers and to

Snap-on’s

independent franchise van channel on a non-extended-term basis with payment terms generally ranging from 30 to 120 days.

The components of Snap-on’s trade and other accounts receivable as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Trade and other accounts receivable

$

579.2

$

567.0

Allowances for doubtful accounts

(16.7)

(16.2)

Total trade and other accounts receivable – net

$

562.5

$

550.8

Finance and Contract Receivables

Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services operation in the United States, originates extended-term finance and contract receivables on sales of

Snap-on’s

products through the U.S. franchisee and customer network and to

Snap-on’s

industrial and other customers;

Snap-on’s

foreign finance subsidiaries provide similar financing internationally. Interest income on finance and contract receivables is included in “Financial services revenue” on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Snap-on’s finance receivables are comprised of extended-term
installment payment contracts to both technicians and independent shop owners (i.e., franchisees’ customers) to enable them to purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan, generally with expected
average payment terms of approximately three years. Contract receivables, with payment terms of up to 10 years, are comprised of extended-term installment payment contracts to a broad base of industrial and other customers worldwide, including shop
owners, both independents and national chains, for their purchase of tools and diagnostic and equipment products. Contract receivables also include extended-term installment loans to franchisees to meet a number of financing needs, including working
capital loans, loans to enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise and van leases. Finance and contract receivables are generally secured by the underlying tools and/or diagnostic or equipment products financed and, for installment
loans to franchisees, other franchisee assets.

The components of Snap-on’s current finance and contract receivables as
of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The components of

Snap-on’s

finance and
contract receivables with payment terms beyond one year as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

Long-term finance and contract receivables installments, net of unearned finance charges, as of 2015 and
2014 year end are scheduled as follows:

Delinquency is the primary indicator of credit quality for finance and contract receivables. Receivable
balances are considered delinquent when contractual payments become 30 days past due.

Finance receivables are generally
placed on nonaccrual status (nonaccrual of interest and other fees) (i) when a customer is placed on repossession status; (ii) upon receipt of notification of bankruptcy; (iii) upon notification of the death of a customer; or
(iv) in other instances in which management concludes collectability is not reasonably assured. Finance receivables that are considered nonperforming include receivables that are on nonaccrual status and receivables that are generally more than
90 days past due.

Contract receivables are generally placed on nonaccrual status (i) when a receivable is more than 90
days past due or at the point a customer’s account is placed on terminated status regardless of its delinquency status; (ii) upon notification of the death of a customer; or (iii) in other instances in which management concludes
collectability is not reasonably assured. Contract receivables that are considered nonperforming include receivables that are on nonaccrual status and receivables that are generally more than 90 days past due.

The accrual of interest and other fees is resumed when the finance or contract receivable becomes contractually current and collection of
all remaining contractual amounts due is reasonably assured. Finance and contract receivables are evaluated for impairment on a collective basis. A receivable is impaired when it is probable that all amounts related to the receivable will not be
collected according to the contractual terms of the applicable agreement. Impaired receivables are covered by the company’s finance and contract allowances for doubtful accounts reserves and are charged-off against the reserves when
appropriate. As of 2015 and 2014 year end, there were $18.2 million and $15.5 million, respectively, of impaired finance receivables, and there were $1.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, of impaired contract receivables.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


It is the general practice of Snap-on’s financial services business to not engage
in contract or loan modifications. In limited instances, Snap-on’s financial services business may modify certain impaired receivables in troubled debt restructurings. The amount and number of restructured finance and contract receivables as of
2015 and 2014 year end were immaterial to both the financial services portfolio and the company’s results of operations and financial position.

The aging of finance and contract receivables as of 2015 and 2014 year end is as follows:

The amount of performing and nonperforming finance and contract receivables based on payment activity as
of 2015 and 2014 year end is as follows:

The amount of finance and contract receivables on nonaccrual status as of 2015 and 2014 year end is as
follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Finance receivables

$

9.3

$

7.9

Contract receivables

1.5

1.5

The following is a rollforward of the allowances for credit losses for finance and contract receivables
for 2015 and 2014:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following is a rollforward of the combined allowances for doubtful accounts related
to trade and other accounts receivable, as well as finance and contract receivables, for 2015, 2014 and 2013:

(1)

Represents write-offs of bad debts, net of recoveries, and the net impact
of currency translation.

Note 4: Inventories

Inventories by major classification as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

Inventories accounted for using the FIFO method as of 2015 and 2014 year end approximated 57% and 58%,
respectively, of total inventories. The company accounts for its non-U.S. inventory on the FIFO method. As of 2015 year end, approximately 31% of the company’s U.S. inventory was accounted for using the FIFO method and 69% was accounted for
using the LIFO method. There were no LIFO inventory liquidations in 2015, 2014 or 2013.

Note 5: Property and Equipment

Property and equipment (which are carried at cost) as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

The estimated service lives of property and equipment are principally as follows:

Buildings and improvements

3 to 50 years

Machinery, equipment and computer software

2 to 15 years


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The cost and accumulated depreciation of property and equipment under capital leases as
of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Buildings and improvements

$

20.1

$

20.2

Accumulated depreciation

(11.0)

(9.7)

Net book value

$

9.1

$

10.5

Depreciation expense was $57.8 million, $54.8 million and $51.2 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.

Note 6: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

Goodwill of $790.1 million as of 2015 year end includes $6.2 million of goodwill (non-tax-deductible)
from the 2015 acquisition of Ecotechnics. See Note 2 for additional information on acquisitions.

Additional disclosures
related to other intangible assets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

The gross carrying value of non-amortized trademarks as of 2015 year end includes $2.2 million related to
the Ecotechnics acquisition.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as declines in
profitability and cash flow due to significant and long-term deterioration in macroeconomic, industry and market conditions, the loss of key customers, changes in technology or markets, significant changes in key personnel or litigation, a
significant and sustained decrease in share price and/or other events, including effects from the sale or disposal of a reporting unit, could require a provision for impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets in a future period. As of
2015 year end, the company has no accumulated impairment losses.

The weighted-average amortization periods related to other
intangible assets are as follows:

Snap-on is amortizing its customer relationships on both an accelerated and straight-line basis over a 15
year weighted-average life; the remaining intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis. The weighted-average amortization period for all amortizable intangibles on a combined basis is 11 years.

The company’s customer relationships generally have contractual terms of three to five years and are typically renewed without
significant cost to the company. The weighted-average 15 year life for customer relationships is based on the company’s historical renewal experience. Intangible asset renewal costs are expensed as incurred.

The aggregate amortization expense was $24.7 million in both 2015 and 2014, and $25.5 million in 2013. Based on current levels of
amortizable intangible assets and estimated weighted-average useful lives, estimated annual amortization expense is expected to be $22.0 million in 2016, $18.6 million in 2017, $15.5 million in 2018, $13.6 million in 2019, and $12.0 million in 2020.

Note 7: Exit and Disposal Activities

Snap-on did not record any costs for exit and disposal activities in 2015; Snap-on recorded $6.5 million of costs for
exit and disposal activities in 2014. The 2014 exit and disposal costs, by operating segment, are as follows:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Costs associated with exit and disposal activities in 2014 primarily related to
severance costs associated with headcount reduction and facility consolidation initiatives. All $6.5 million of exit and disposal costs incurred in 2014 qualified for accrual treatment.

Snap-on’s exit and disposal accrual activity for 2014 and 2015 is as follows:

The exit and disposal accrual of $4.1 million as of 2015 year end is expected to be fully utilized in
2016.

Snap-on

expects to fund the remaining cash requirements of its exit and
disposal activities with available cash on hand, cash flows from operations and borrowings under the company’s existing credit facilities. The estimated costs for the exit and disposal activities were based on management’s best business
judgment under prevailing circumstances.

Note 8: Income Taxes

The source of earnings before income taxes and equity earnings consisted of the following:

(Amounts in millions)




United States

$

578.4

$

481.1

$

406.7

Foreign

132.1

149.8

119.5

Total

$

710.5

$

630.9

$

526.2

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consisted of the following:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to
Snap-on’s effective tax rate:

Snap-on’s effective income tax rate on earnings attributable to Snap-on Incorporated was 31.7% in
2015, 32.1% in 2014, and 32.3% in 2013. The 2015 effective income tax rate includes tax benefits associated with distributions from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, partially offset by a tax assessment in a foreign jurisdiction.

Temporary differences that give rise to the net deferred income tax asset (liability) as of 2015, 2014 and 2013 year end are as follows:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


As of 2015 year end, Snap-on had tax net operating loss carryforwards totaling $266.4
million as follows:

A valuation allowance totaling $32.0 million, $34.8 million and $45.4 million as of 2015, 2014 and 2013
year end, respectively, has been established for deferred income tax assets primarily related to certain subsidiary loss carryforwards that may not be realized. Realization of the net deferred income tax assets is dependent on generating sufficient
taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more-likely-than-not that the net deferred income tax assets will be realized. The amount of the net deferred income tax assets considered
realizable, however, could change in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period fluctuate.

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits for 2015, 2014 and 2013:

The unrecognized tax benefits of $7.2 million, $6.4 million and $4.6 million as of 2015, 2014 and 2013
year end, respectively, would impact the effective income tax rate if recognized.

Interest and penalties related to
unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in income tax expense. During 2015 and 2014, the company reversed a net $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, of interest and penalties to income associated with unrecognized tax benefits. As of
2015, 2014 and 2013 year end, the company has provided for $0.5 million, $0.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits. The unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest
and penalties are included in “Other long-term liabilities” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Snap-on and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the United States and in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. It is
reasonably possible that certain unrecognized tax benefits may either be settled with taxing authorities or the statutes of limitations for such items may lapse within the next 12 months, causing Snap-on’s gross unrecognized tax benefits to
decrease by a range of zero to $1.6 million. Over the next 12 months, Snap-on anticipates taking certain tax positions on various tax returns for which the related tax benefit does not meet the recognition threshold. Accordingly, Snap-on’s
gross unrecognized tax benefits may increase by a range of zero to $1.0 million over the next 12 months for uncertain tax positions expected to be taken in future tax filings.

With few exceptions,

Snap-on

is no longer subject to U.S. federal and state/local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2010, and Snap-on is
no longer subject to non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2007.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The undistributed earnings of all non-U.S. subsidiaries totaled $624.1 million, $619.1
million and $556.0 million as of 2015, 2014 and 2013 year end, respectively. Snap-on has not provided any deferred taxes on these undistributed earnings as it considers the undistributed earnings to be permanently invested. Determination of the
amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.

Note 9: Short-term and Long-term Debt

Short-term and long-term debt as of 2015 and 2014 year end consisted of the following:

*

Includes fair value adjustments related to interest rate swaps.

As of 2015 year end, notes payable totaled $18.4 million; there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of 2015 year end.
Notes payable of $56.6 million as of 2014 year end included $37.0 million of commercial paper borrowings and $19.6 million of other notes. There were no current maturities of long-term debt as of 2015 and 2014 year end.

The annual maturities of Snap-on’s long-term debt and notes payable over the next five years are $18.4 million in 2016, $150.0
million on January 15, 2017, $250.0 million in 2018, $200.0 million in 2019 and no maturities in 2020. As of 2015 year end, the $150 million of unsecured notes that mature on January 15, 2017, were included in “Long-term debt” on
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as their scheduled maturity was in excess of one year of the 2015 year-end balance sheet date.

Average notes payable outstanding were $78.5 million in 2015 and $45.4 million in 2014. The weighted-average interest rate on notes payable was 4.36% in 2015 and 5.42% in 2014. As of 2015 and 2014 year
end, the weighted-average interest rate on outstanding notes payable was 15.82% and 4.86%, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates in both years reflect local borrowings in emerging growth markets where interest rates are generally higher.
The lower weighted-average interest rate of 4.86% on outstanding notes payable as of 2014 year end benefited from lower interest rates on commercial paper borrowings; no commercial paper was outstanding at 2015 year end.

On December 15, 2015, Snap-on amended and restated its $700 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that was set to
terminate on September 27, 2018, by entering into a new five-year, $700 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that terminates on December 15, 2020 (the “Credit Facility”); no amounts were outstanding under the Credit
Facility as of 2015 year end. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at varying rates based on Snap-on’s then-current, long-term debt ratings. The Credit Facility’s financial covenant requires that Snap-on maintain, as of each
fiscal quarter end, either (i) a ratio not greater than 0.60 to 1.00 of consolidated net debt (consolidated debt net of certain cash adjustments) to the sum of such consolidated net debt plus total equity and less accumulated other
comprehensive income or loss (the “Debt Ratio”); or (ii) a ratio not greater than 3.50 to 1.00 of such consolidated net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain other adjustments for the
preceding four fiscal quarters then ended (the “Debt to EBITDA Ratio”). Snap-on may, up to two times during any five-year period during the term of the Credit Facility (including any extensions thereof), increase the maximum Debt Ratio to
0.65 to 1.00 and/or increase the maximum Debt to EBITDA Ratio to 3.75 to 1.00 for four consecutive fiscal quarters in connection with certain material acquisitions (as defined in the related credit agreement). As of 2015 year end, the company’s
actual ratios of 0.23 and 0.95, respectively, were both within the permitted ranges set forth in this financial covenant.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Note 10: Financial Instruments

Derivatives:

All derivative instruments are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements at fair
value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in earnings or on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on whether the derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedged transaction. Gains
or losses on derivative instruments recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“Accumulated OCI”) must be reclassified to earnings in the period in which earnings are affected by the underlying hedged item and the
ineffective portion of all hedges must be recognized in earnings in the period that such portion is determined to be ineffective.

The criteria used to determine if hedge accounting treatment is appropriate are (i) the designation of the hedge to an underlying exposure; (ii) whether or not overall risk is being reduced; and
(iii) if there is a correlation between the value of the derivative instrument and the underlying hedged item. On the date a derivative contract is entered into,

Snap-on

designates the derivative as a
fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, or a natural hedging instrument whose change in fair value is recognized as an economic hedge against changes in the value of the hedged item. Snap-on does not
use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.

The company is exposed to global market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and the company’s stock price, and therefore uses derivatives to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business. The primary risks managed by using
derivative instruments are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and stock-based deferred compensation risk.

Foreign
currency risk management:

Snap-on has significant international operations and is subject to certain risks inherent with foreign operations that include currency fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange risk exists to the extent that Snap-on has
payment obligations or receipts denominated in currencies other than the functional currency, including intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. To manage these exposures, Snap-on identifies naturally offsetting positions and then
purchases hedging instruments to protect the residual net exposures. Snap-on manages most of these exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows for netting of certain exposures to take advantage of natural offsets. Foreign currency forward
contracts (“foreign currency forwards”) are used to hedge the net exposures. Gains or losses on net foreign currency hedges are intended to offset losses or gains on the underlying net exposures in an effort to reduce the earnings
volatility resulting from fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. Snap-on’s foreign currency forwards are typically not designated as hedges. The fair value changes of these contracts are reported in earnings as foreign exchange gain or
loss, which is included in “Other income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

As of 2015 year end, Snap-on had $98.3 million of net foreign currency forward buy contracts outstanding comprised of buy contracts including $52.0 million in euros, $31.4 million in British pounds, $23.4
million in Swedish kronor, $12.9 million in Singapore dollars, $6.2 million in South Korean won, $5.5 million in Mexican pesos and $8.7 million in other currencies, and sell contracts comprised of $18.4 million in Canadian dollars, $9.7 million in
Japanese yen, $4.2 million in Australian dollars and $9.5 million in other currencies. As of 2014 year end, Snap-on had $140.4 million of net foreign currency forward buy contracts outstanding comprised of buy contracts including $81.5 million in
euros, $34.8 million in Australian dollars, $22.1 million in Swedish kronor, $16.3 million in British pounds, $10.1 million in Singapore dollars, $5.7 million in South Korean won, and $8.6 million in other currencies, and sell contracts comprised of
$16.8 million in Canadian dollars, $10.9 million in Japanese yen and $11.0 million in other currencies.

Interest rate risk
management:

Snap-on aims to control funding costs by managing the exposure created by the differing maturities and interest rate structures of Snap-on’s borrowings through the use of interest rate swap agreements (“interest rate
swaps”).

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Snap-on enters into interest rate swaps to manage risks associated with changing
interest rates related to the company’s fixed rate borrowings. Interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges. The differentials paid or received on interest rate swaps are recognized as adjustments to “Interest expense”
on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recorded in “Long-term debt” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, while any ineffective
portion is recorded as an adjustment to “Interest expense” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding and designated as fair value hedges was $100.0 million as of both
2015 and 2014 year end.

Snap-on enters into treasury lock agreements (“treasury locks”) from time to time to manage
the potential change in interest rates in anticipation of issuing fixed rate debt. Treasury locks are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effective differentials paid or received on treasury locks related to the anticipated issuance of fixed
rate debt are recognized as adjustments to “Interest expense” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. There were no treasury locks outstanding as of 2015 or 2014 year end, and no treasury locks were settled in 2015 or
2014.

Stock-based deferred compensation risk management:

Snap-on aims to manage market risk associated with the
stock-based portion of its deferred compensation plans through the use of prepaid equity forward agreements (“equity forwards”). Equity forwards are used to aid in offsetting the potential mark-to-market effect on stock-based deferred
compensation from changes in Snap-on’s stock price. Since stock-based deferred compensation liabilities increase as the company’s stock price rises and decrease as the company’s stock price declines, the equity forwards are intended
to mitigate the potential impact on deferred compensation expense that may result from such mark-to-market changes. As of 2015 and 2014 year end, Snap-on had equity forwards in place intended to manage market risk with respect to 107,900 shares and
112,800 shares, respectively, of Snap-on common stock associated with its deferred compensation plans.

Fair value
measurements:

Snap-on has derivative assets and liabilities related to interest rate swaps, foreign currency forwards and equity forwards that are measured at Level 2 fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of derivative instruments
included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

As of 2015 and 2014 year end, the fair value adjustment to long-term debt related to the interest rate
swaps was $12.9 million and $14.0 million, respectively.

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between participants at the measurement date. Level 2 fair value measurements for derivative assets and liabilities are measured using quoted prices in active markets for similar assets
and liabilities. Interest rate swaps are valued based on the six-month LIBOR swap rate for similar instruments. Foreign currency forwards are valued based on exchange rates quoted by domestic and foreign banks for similar instruments. Equity
forwards are valued using a market approach based primarily on the company’s stock price at the reporting date. The company did not have any derivative assets or liabilities measured at Level 1 or Level 3, nor did it implement any changes in
its valuation techniques as of and for its 2015 and 2014 years ended.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges as included in the
Consolidated Statements of Earnings is as follows:

The effect of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges as included in Accumulated OCI on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Earnings is as follows:

The effects of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments as included in the
Consolidated Statements of Earnings are as follows:

Snap-on’s foreign currency forwards are typically not designated as hedges for financial reporting
purposes. The fair value changes of foreign currency forwards not designated as hedging instruments are reported in earnings as foreign exchange gain or loss in “Other income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Earnings. The $15.5 million derivative loss recognized in 2015 was partially offset by transaction gains on net exposures of $12.8 million, resulting in a net foreign exchange loss of $2.7 million. The $19.3 million derivative loss
recognized in 2014 was partially offset by transaction gains on net exposures of $17.8 million, resulting in a net foreign exchange loss of $1.5 million. The $1.9 million derivative gain recognized in 2013 was more than offset by transaction losses
on net exposures of $6.3 million, resulting in a net foreign exchange loss of $4.4 million. The resulting net foreign exchange losses are included in “Other income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Earnings. See Note 16 for additional information on “Other income (expense) – net.”

Snap-on’s equity
forwards are not designated as hedges for financial reporting purposes. Fair value changes of both the equity forwards and related stock-based (mark-to-market) deferred compensation liabilities are reported in “Operating expenses” on
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The $4.7 million derivative gain recognized in 2015 was offset by $4.6 million of mark-to-market deferred compensation expense. The $3.6 million derivative gain recognized in 2014 was offset
by $3.6 million of mark-to-market deferred compensation expense. The $3.3 million derivative gain recognized in 2013 was more than offset by $3.7 million of mark-to-market deferred compensation expense.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

As of 2015 year end, the maximum maturity date of any fair value hedge was six
years. During the next 12 months,

Snap-on

expects to reclassify into earnings net gains from Accumulated OCI of approximately $0.2 million after tax at the time the underlying hedge transactions are
realized.

Counterparty risk:

Snap-on is exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by the counterparties
to its various financial agreements, including its foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swap agreements and prepaid equity forward agreements. Snap-on does not obtain collateral or other security to support financial instruments subject
to credit risk, but monitors the credit standing of the counterparties and generally enters into agreements with financial institution counterparties with a credit rating of A- or better. Snap-on does not anticipate non-performance by its
counterparties, but cannot provide assurances.

Fair value of financial instruments:

The fair values of financial
instruments that do not approximate the carrying values in the financial statements as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of financial instruments:

•

Finance and contract receivables include both short-term and long-term receivables. The fair value estimates of finance and contract receivables are
derived utilizing discounted cash flow analyses performed on groupings of receivables that are similar in terms of loan type and characteristics. The cash flow analyses consider recent pre-payment trends where applicable. The cash flows are
discounted over the average life of the receivables using a current market discount rate of a similar term adjusted for credit quality. Significant inputs to the fair value measurements of the receivables are unobservable and, as such, are
classified as Level 3.

•

Fair value of long-term debt was estimated, using Level 2 fair value measurements, based on quoted market values of Snap-on’s publicly traded
senior debt. The carrying value of long-term debt includes adjustments related to fair value hedges. The fair value of notes payable approximates such instruments’ carrying value due to their short-term nature.

•

The fair value of all other financial instruments, including cash equivalents, trade and other accounts receivable, accounts payable and other
financial instruments, approximates such instruments’ carrying value due to their short-term nature.

Note 11: Pension Plans

Snap-on

has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering
most U.S. employees and certain employees in foreign countries. Snap-on also has foreign contributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain foreign employees. Retirement benefits are generally provided based on employees’ years of
service and average earnings or stated amounts for years of service. Normal retirement age is 65, with provisions for earlier retirement.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The status of

Snap-on’s

pension plans as of
2015 and 2014 year end is as follows:

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

Amounts included in Accumulated OCI on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014
year end are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Net loss, net of tax of $141.4 million and $134.9 million, respectively

$

(253.7)

$

(247.4)

Prior service credit, net of tax of $1.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively

2.8

3.5

$

(250.9)

$

(243.9)

The accumulated benefit obligation for

Snap-on’s

pension
plans as of 2015 and 2014 year end was $1,231.2 million and $1,274.3 million, respectively.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan
assets for

Snap-on’s

pension plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The objective of Snap-on’s discount rate assumption is to reflect the rate at which
the pension benefits could be effectively settled. In making this determination, the company takes into account the timing and amount of benefits that would be available under the plans. The domestic discount rate as of 2015 and 2014 year
end was selected based on a cash flow matching methodology developed by the company’s outside actuaries and which incorporates a review of current economic conditions. This methodology matches the plans’ yearly projected cash flows for
benefits and, starting in 2015, service costs to those of hypothetical bond portfolios using high-quality, AA rated or better, corporate bonds from either Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s credit rating agencies
available at the measurement date. This technique calculates bond portfolios that produce adequate cash flows to pay the plans’ projected yearly benefits and then selects the portfolio with the highest yield and uses that yield as the
recommended discount rate.

The weighted-average discount rate for Snap-on’s domestic pension plans of 4.7% represents
the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows as the estimated benefit plan payments. Lowering Snap-on’s domestic discount rate assumption by 50 basis points (100 basis points (“bps”) equals 1.0 percent) would
have increased

Snap-on’s

2015 domestic pension expense and projected benefit obligation by approximately $6.1 million and $59.2 million, respectively. As of 2015 year end, Snap-on’s domestic
projected benefit obligation comprised approximately 83% of

Snap-on’s

worldwide projected benefit obligation. The weighted-average discount rate for Snap-on’s foreign pension plans of 3.7% represents
the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows as the estimated benefit plan payments. Lowering Snap-on’s foreign discount rate assumption by 50 bps would have increased Snap-on’s 2015 foreign pension expense and
projected benefit obligation by approximately $1.7 million and $20.7 million, respectively.

Actuarial gains and losses in
excess of 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or market-related value of assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active participants or over the average remaining life
expectancy for plans with primarily inactive participants. Prior service costs and credits resulting from plan amendments are amortized in equal annual amounts over the average remaining service period of active participants or over the average
remaining life expectancy for plans with primarily inactive participants.

As a practical expedient,

Snap-on

uses the calendar year end as the measurement date for its plans.

Snap-on

funds its pension plans as required by governmental regulation and may consider discretionary
contributions as conditions warrant. Snap-on intends to make contributions of $7.4 million to its foreign pension plans and $2.0 million to its domestic pension plans in 2016, as required by law. Depending on market and other conditions,

Snap-on

may make discretionary cash contributions to its pension plans in 2016.

The
following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, are expected to be paid as follows:

Snap-on’s

domestic pension plans have a long-term investment
horizon and a total return strategy that emphasizes a capital growth objective. The long-term investment performance objective for

Snap-on’s

domestic plans’ assets is to achieve net of expense
returns that meet or exceed the 7.6% domestic long-term, rate-of-return-on-assets assumption used for reporting purposes.

Snap-on

uses a three-year, market-related value asset method of amortizing the
difference between actual and expected returns on its domestic plans’ assets.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The basis for determining the overall expected long-term, rate-of-return-on-assets
assumption is a nominal returns forecasting method. For each asset class, future returns are estimated by identifying the premium of riskier asset classes over lower risk alternatives. The methodology constructs expected returns using a
“building block” approach to the individual components of total return. These forecasts are stated in both nominal and real (after inflation) terms. This process first considers the long-term historical return premium based on the longest
set of data available for each asset class. These premiums are then adjusted based on current relative valuation levels and macro-economic conditions.

For risk and correlation assumptions, the actual experience for each asset class is reviewed for the longest time period available. Expected relationships for a 10 to 20 year time horizon are determined
based upon historical results, with adjustments made for material changes.

Investments are diversified to attempt to minimize
the risk of large losses. Since asset allocation is a key determinant of expected investment returns, assets are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocation to correct significant deviations from the asset allocation policy that are caused by
market fluctuations and cash flow. Asset/liability studies are conducted periodically to determine if any revisions to the strategic asset allocation policy are necessary.

Snap-on’s

domestic pension plans’ target allocation and actual weighted-average asset allocation by asset category and fair value of plan assets as of
2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

The fair value measurement hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy
gives the highest priority (“Level 1”) to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities and the lowest priority (“Level 3”) to unobservable inputs. Fair value measurements primarily based on
observable market information are given a “Level 2” priority.

Certain debt and equity securities are valued at
quoted per share or unit market prices for which an official close or last trade pricing on an active exchange is available and are categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Commingled equity securities, corporate bonds and commingled
multi-strategy funds are valued at the net asset value (“NAV”) per share or unit multiplied by the number of shares or units held as of the measurement date, as reported by the fund managers. The share or unit price is quoted on a private
market and is based on the value of the underlying investment, which is primarily based on observable inputs; such investments are categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Insurance contracts are valued at the present value of the
estimated future cash flows promised under the terms of the insurance contracts and are categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Private equity partnership funds, hedge funds, and real estate and other real assets, all of which have
redemption restrictions, are stated at estimated fair value (based on the estimated fair market value of the underlying investments) as reported by the fund managers and are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The company regularly
reviews fund performance directly with its investment advisor and the fund managers, and performs qualitative analysis to corroborate the reasonableness of the reported NAVs. For Level 3 funds for which the company did not receive a year-end NAV,
the company recorded an estimate of the change in fair value for the latest period based on return estimates and other fund activity obtained from the fund managers.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair value and the level within
the fair value hierarchy of

Snap-on’s

domestic pension plans’ assets as of 2015 year end:

The following is a summary of the 2015 changes in fair value of the domestic plans’ assets with
Level 3 inputs:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair value and the level within
the fair value hierarchy of

Snap-on’s

domestic pension plans’ assets as of 2014 year end:

The following is a summary of the 2014 changes in fair value of the domestic plans’ assets with
Level 3 inputs:

Snap-on’s

primary investment objective for its foreign
pension plans’ assets is to meet the projected obligations to the beneficiaries over a long period of time, and to do so in a manner that is consistent with the company’s risk tolerance. The foreign asset allocation policies consider the
company’s financial strength and long-term asset class risk/return expectations, since the obligations are long term in nature. The company believes the foreign pension plans’ assets, which are managed locally by professional investment
firms, are well diversified.

The expected long-term rate of return on foreign plans’ assets reflects management’s
expectations of long-term average rates of return on funds invested to provide benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. The expected return is based on the outlook for inflation, fixed income returns and equity returns, asset
allocation and investment strategy. Differences between actual and expected returns on foreign pension plans’ assets are recorded as an actuarial gain or loss and amortized accordingly.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Snap-on’s

foreign pension plans’
target allocation and actual weighted-average asset allocation by asset category and fair value of plan assets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

*

Includes commingled funds – multi-strategy

The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair value and the level within the fair value hierarchy of

Snap-on’s

foreign pension plans’ assets
as of 2015 year end:

The following is a summary of the 2015 changes in fair value of the foreign plans’ assets with Level
3 inputs:

The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair value and the level within the fair value
hierarchy of

Snap-on’s

foreign pension plans’ assets as of 2014 year end:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following is a summary of the 2014 changes in fair value of the foreign plans’
assets with Level 3 inputs:

Snap-on has several 401(k) plans covering certain U.S. employees. Snap-on’s employer match to the
401(k) plans is made with cash contributions. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, Snap-on recognized $7.0 million, $6.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively, of expense related to its 401(k) plans.

Note 12: Postretirement Plans

Snap-on

provides health care benefits for certain retired U.S. employees.
Employees retiring prior to 1989 were eligible for retiree medical coverage upon reaching early retirement age, with no retiree contributions required. Benefits are paid based on deductibles and percentages of covered expenses and take into
consideration payments made by Medicare and other insurance coverage.

Since 1989, U.S. retirees have been eligible for
comprehensive major medical plans. Benefits are paid based on deductibles and percentages of covered expenses, and plan provisions allow for benefit and coverage changes. Most retirees are required to pay the entire cost of the coverage, but Snap-on
may elect to subsidize the cost of coverage under certain circumstances.

Snap-on

has
a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (“VEBA”) trust for the funding of existing postretirement health care benefits for certain non-salaried retirees in the United States; all other retiree health care plans are unfunded.

The status of Snap-on’s U.S. postretirement health care plans as of 2015 and 2014 year end is as follows:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are
as follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Accrued benefits

$

(4.0)

$

(4.8)

Retiree health care benefits

(37.9)

(42.5)

Net liability

$

(41.9)

$

(47.3)

Amounts included in Accumulated OCI on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 2015 and 2014
year end are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)



Net gain, net of tax of $2.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively

$

4.5

$

2.4

The components of net periodic benefit cost and changes recognized in OCI are as follows:

Snap-on expects to recognize $0.4 million of prior unrecognized gains, included in Accumulated OCI on the
accompanying 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet, in net periodic benefit cost during 2016.

The weighted-average discount rate
used to determine

Snap-on’s

postretirement health care expense is as follows:




Discount rate

3.6%

4.2%

3.2%

The weighted-average discount rate used to determine

Snap-on’s

accumulated
benefit obligation is as follows:



Discount rate

4.1%

3.6%

The methodology for selecting the year-end 2015 and 2014 weighted-average discount rate for the
company’s domestic postretirement plans was to match the plans’ yearly projected cash flows for benefits and, starting in 2015, service costs to those of hypothetical bond portfolios using high-quality, AA rated or better, corporate bonds
from either Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s credit rating agencies available at the measurement date. As a practical expedient, Snap-on uses the calendar year end as the measurement date for its plans.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

For 2016, the actuarial calculations assume a pre-65 health care cost trend rate of 5.9%
and a post-65 health care cost trend rate of 6.8%, both decreasing gradually to 4.5% in 2038 and thereafter. As of 2015 year end, a one-percentage-point increase in the health care cost trend rate for future years would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $0.8 million and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost components by less than $0.1 million. Conversely, a

one-percentage-point

decrease in
the health care cost trend rate for future years would decrease the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $0.7 million and the aggregate of the service cost and interest rate components by less than $0.1 million.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, are expected to be paid as follows:

The objective of the VEBA trust is to achieve net of expense returns that meet or exceed the 6.8%
long-term,

rate-of-return-on-assets

assumption used for reporting purposes. Investments are diversified to attempt to minimize the risk of large losses. Since asset
allocation is a key determinant of expected investment returns, assets are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocation to correct significant deviations from the asset allocation policy that are caused by market fluctuations and cash flow.

The basis for determining the overall expected long-term, rate-of-return-on-assets assumption is a nominal returns
forecasting method. For each asset class, future returns are estimated by identifying the premium of riskier asset classes over lower risk alternatives. The methodology constructs expected returns using a “building block” approach to the
individual components of total return. These forecasts are stated in both nominal and real (after inflation) terms. This process first considers the long-term historical return premium based on the longest set of data available for each asset class.
These premiums are then adjusted based on current relative valuation levels and macro-economic conditions.

Snap-on’s
VEBA plan target allocation and actual weighted-average asset allocation by asset category and fair value of plan assets as of 2015 and 2014 year end are as follows:

The fair value measurement hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy
gives the highest priority (Level 1) to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities and the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs. Fair value measurements primarily based on observable market
information are given a Level 2 priority.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Debt securities are valued at quoted per share or unit market prices for which an
official close or last trade pricing on an active exchange is available and are categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Equity securities are valued at the NAV per share or unit multiplied by the number of shares or units held as of the
measurement date, as reported by the fund managers. The share or unit price is quoted on a private market and is based on the value of the underlying investment, which is primarily based on observable inputs; such investments are categorized as
Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Hedge funds, which have redemption restrictions, are stated at estimated fair value (based on the estimated fair market value of the underlying investments) as reported by the fund managers and are
classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The company regularly reviews fund performance directly with its investment advisor and the fund managers, and performs qualitative analysis to corroborate the reasonableness of the reported
NAVs. For Level 3 funds for which the company did not receive a year-end NAV, the company recorded an estimate of the change in fair value for the latest period based on return estimates and other fund activity obtained from the fund
managers.

The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair value and the level within the fair value hierarchy of
the VEBA assets as of 2015 year end:

There were no changes in the fair value of VEBA plan assets with Level 3 inputs during 2015; the hedge
funds balance was $3.9 million as of both 2015 and 2014 year end.

The following is a summary, by asset category, of the fair
value and the level within the fair value hierarchy of the VEBA assets as of 2014 year end:

The following is a summary of the 2014 changes in fair value of the VEBA plan assets with Level 3 inputs:

(Amounts in millions)

Hedge

Funds

Balance as of 2013 year end

$

3.6

Unrealized gains attributable to assets held

0.3

Balance as of 2014 year end

$

3.9

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 13: Stock-based Compensation and Other Stock Plans

The 2011 Incentive Stock and Awards Plan (the “2011 Plan”) provides for the grant of stock options,
performance awards, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and restricted stock awards (which may be designated as “restricted stock units” or “RSUs”). No further grants are being made under its predecessor, the 2001
Incentive Stock and Awards Plan (the “2001 Plan”), although outstanding awards under the 2001 Plan will continue until exercised, vested, forfeited or expired. As of 2015 year end, the 2011 Plan had 5,031,957 shares available for future
grants. The company uses treasury stock to deliver shares under both the 2001 and 2011 Plans.

Net stock-based compensation
expense was $39.8 million in 2015, $38.1 million in 2014 and $38.5 million in 2013. Cash received from stock purchase and option plan exercises was $41.6 million in 2015, $33.0 million in 2014 and $29.2 million in 2013. The tax benefit realized from
both the exercise and vesting of share-based payment arrangements was $26.4 million in 2015, $22.3 million in 2014 and $18.3 million in 2013.

Stock Options

Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to
the market value of a share of Snap-on’s common stock on the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. Stock option grants vest ratably on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.

The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The company uses
historical data regarding stock option exercise behaviors for different participating groups to estimate the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the
company’s stock for the length of time corresponding to the expected term of the option. The expected dividend yield is based on the company’s historical dividend payments. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield
curve on the grant date for the expected term of the option. The following weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of stock options granted during 2015, 2014 and 2013, using the Black-Scholes valuation model:

A summary of stock option activity during 2015 is presented below:

*

Weighted-average

The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $25.64 in 2015, $20.19 in 2014 and $17.36 in 2013. The intrinsic value of options exercised was $37.6 million in 2015, $24.6 million in
2014 and $14.1 million in 2013. The fair value of stock options vested was $9.9 million in 2015, $9.6 million in 2014 and $7.9 million in 2013.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


As of 2015 year end, there was $16.2 million of unrecognized compensation cost related
to non-vested stock options that is expected to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.

Performance Awards

Performance awards, which are granted as performance share units and performance-based RSUs, are earned and expensed using the fair value
of the award over a contractual term of three years based on the company’s performance. Vesting of the performance awards is dependent upon performance relative to pre-defined goals for revenue growth and return on net assets for the applicable
performance period. For performance achieved above a certain level, the recipient may earn additional shares of stock, not to exceed 100% of the number of performance awards initially granted.

The performance share units have a three-year performance period based on the results of the consolidated financial metrics of the
company. The performance-based RSUs have a one-year performance period based on the results of the consolidated financial metrics of the company followed by a two-year cliff vesting schedule, assuming continued employment.

The fair value of performance awards is calculated using the market value of a share of Snap-on’s common stock on the date of grant.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance awards granted during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $139.30, $102.11 and $77.33, respectively. Vested performance share units approximated 94,000 shares as of 2015 year end, 131,000 shares as of
2014 year end and 148,000 shares as of 2013 year end. Performance share units related to 130,764 shares, 146,313 shares and 213,459 shares were paid out in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Earned performance share units are generally paid out
following the conclusion of the applicable performance period upon approval by the Organization and Executive Compensation Committee of the company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”).

Based on the company’s 2015 performance, 64,327 RSUs granted in 2015 were earned; assuming continued employment, these RSUs will
vest at the end of fiscal 2017. Based on the company’s 2014 performance, 78,585 RSUs granted in 2014 were earned; assuming continued employment, these RSUs will vest at the end of fiscal 2016. Based on the company’s 2013 performance,
81,453 RSUs granted in 2013 were earned; these RSUs vested as of fiscal 2015 year end and were paid out shortly thereafter.

Changes to the company’s non-vested performance awards in 2015 are as follows:

*

Weighted-average

As of 2015 year end, there was approximately $16.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested performance awards that is expected to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a
weighted-average period of 1.7 years.

Stock Appreciation Rights (“SARs”)

The company also issues stock-settled and cash-settled SARs to certain key non-U.S. employees. SARs have a contractual term of ten years
and vest ratably on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. SARs are granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of a share of Snap-on’s common stock on the date of grant.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Stock-settled SARs are accounted for as equity instruments and provide for the issuance
of Snap-on common stock equal to the amount by which the company’s stock has appreciated over the exercise price. Stock-settled SARs have an effect on dilutive shares outstanding as any appreciation in the value of Snap-on’s common stock
over the exercise price will be settled in shares of common stock. Cash-settled SARs provide for the cash payment of the excess of the fair market value of Snap-on’s common stock on the date of exercise over the grant price. Cash-settled SARs
have no effect on dilutive shares or shares outstanding as any appreciation in the value of Snap-on’s common stock over the grant price is paid in cash and not in common stock.

The fair value of stock-settled SARs is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair value of

cash-settled

SARs is revalued (mark-to-market) each reporting period using the Black-Scholes valuation model based on

Snap-on’s

period-end

stock price. The company uses historical data regarding SARs exercise behaviors for different participating groups to estimate the expected term of the SARs granted based on the period of time that
similar instruments granted are expected to be outstanding. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s stock for the length of time corresponding to the expected term of the SARs. The expected dividend yield is
based on the company’s historical dividend payments. The

risk-free

interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect as of the grant date (for stock-settled SARs) or reporting date (for

cash-settled

SARs) for the length of time corresponding to the expected term of the SARs.

The following weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of stock-settled SARs granted during 2015, 2014 and
2013, using the Black-Scholes valuation model:

Changes to the company’s stock-settled SARs in 2015 are as follows:

*

Weighted-average

The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock-settled SARs granted was $25.37 in 2015, $19.55 in 2014 and $17.47 in 2013. The intrinsic value of stock-settled SARs exercised was $1.0 million in
2015, $0.1 million in 2014 and zero in 2013. The fair value of stock-settled SARs vested was $1.4 million in 2015, $0.6 million in 2014 and zero in 2013.

As of 2015 year end there was $2.6 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock-settled SARs that is expected to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a

weighted-average

period of 1.4 years.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


The following weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of
cash-settled SARs granted during 2015, 2014 and 2013, using the Black-Scholes valuation model:

The intrinsic value of cash-settled SARs exercised was $11.0 million in 2015, $5.5 million in 2014 and
$4.4 million in 2013. The fair value of cash-settled SARs vested during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $4.6 million, $5.9 million and $5.7 million, respectively.

Changes to the company’s non-vested cash-settled SARs in 2015 are as follows:

*

Weighted-average

As of 2015 year end there was $0.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested cash-settled SARs that is expected to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a weighted-average
period of 1.4 years.

Restricted Stock Awards – Non-employee Directors

The company awarded non-employee directors 8,640 shares, 10,398 shares and 13,437 shares of restricted stock in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock awards is expensed over a one year vesting period based on the fair value on the date of grant. All restrictions for the restricted stock generally lapse upon the earlier of the first
anniversary of the grant date, the recipient’s death or disability or in the event of a change in control, as defined in the 2011 Plan. If termination of the recipient’s service occurs prior to the first anniversary of the grant date
for any reason other than death or disability, the shares of restricted stock would be forfeited, unless otherwise determined by the Board.

Directors’ Fee Plan

Under the Directors’ 1993 Fee Plan, as amended, non-employee directors may elect to receive up to 100% of their fees and retainer in
shares of

Snap-on’s

common stock. Directors may elect to defer receipt of all or part of these shares. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, issuances under the Directors’ Fee Plan totaled 2,747 shares, 21,533
shares and 2,313 shares, respectively, of which 1,969 shares, 20,483 shares and 1,021 shares, respectively, were deferred. As of 2015 year end, shares reserved for issuance to directors under this plan totaled 155,512 shares.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Substantially all Snap-on employees in the United States and Canada are eligible to participate in an employee stock purchase plan. The purchase price of the company’s common stock to participants is
the lesser of the mean of the high and low price of the stock on the beginning date (May 15) or ending date (the following May 14) of each plan year. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, issuances under this plan totaled 57,324 shares, 56,582 shares and
93,442 shares, respectively. As of 2015 year end, there were 807,719 shares reserved for issuance under this plan and Snap-on held participant contributions of approximately $2.8 million. Participants are able to withdraw from the plan at any time
prior to the ending

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

date and receive back all contributions made during the plan year. Compensation expense for plan participants was $2.3 million in 2015, $1.5 million in 2014 and $2.6 million in 2013.

Franchisee Stock Purchase Plan

All franchisees in the United States and Canada are eligible to participate in a franchisee stock purchase plan. The purchase price of the company’s common stock to participants is the lesser of
the mean of the high and low price of the stock on the beginning date (May 15) or ending date (the following May 14) of each plan year. For 2015, 2014 and 2013, issuances under this plan totaled 74,001 shares, 74,502 shares and 105,406
shares, respectively. As of 2015 year end, there were 156,336 shares reserved for issuance under this plan and Snap-on held participant contributions of approximately $4.3 million. Participants are able to withdraw from the plan at any time prior to
the ending date and receive back all contributions made during the plan year. Expense for plan participants was $2.9 million in 2015, $1.7 million in 2014 and $3.3 million in 2013.

Note 14: Capital Stock

Snap-on has undertaken repurchases of

Snap-on

common stock from time to time
to offset dilution created by shares issued for employee and franchisee stock purchase plans, stock awards and other corporate purposes. Snap-on repurchased 723,000 shares, 680,000 shares and 926,000 shares in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
As of 2015 year end,

Snap-on

has remaining availability to repurchase up to an additional $230.6 million in common stock pursuant to Board authorizations. The purchase of

Snap-on

common stock is at the company’s discretion, subject to prevailing financial and market conditions.

Cash dividends paid in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $127.9 million, $107.6 million and $92.0 million, respectively. Cash dividends per share in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $2.20, $1.85 and $1.58,
respectively. On February 11, 2016, the company’s Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.61 per share, payable on March 10, 2016, to shareholders of record on February 25, 2016.

Note 15: Commitments and Contingencies

Snap-on

leases facilities, office equipment and vehicles under non-cancelable
operating and capital leases that extend for varying amounts of time. Snap-on’s future minimum lease commitments under these leases, net of sub-lease rental income, are as follows:

Amounts included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets for the present value of minimum capital
lease payments as of 2015 year end are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)


Other accrued liabilities

$

4.3

Other long-term liabilities

17.9

Total present value of minimum capital lease payments

$

22.2


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Rent expense for worldwide facilities, office equipment and vehicles, net of sub-lease
rental income, was $29.4 million, $30.6 million and $31.2 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Snap-on

provides product warranties for specific product lines and accrues for estimated future warranty cost in the period in which the sale is recorded.

Snap-on

calculates
its accrual requirements based on historic warranty loss experience that is periodically adjusted for recent actual experience, including the timing of claims during the warranty period and actual costs incurred.

Snap-on’s

product warranty accrual activity for 2015, 2014 and 2013 is as follows:

Approximately 2,600 employees, or 23% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions
and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements. The number of covered union employees whose contracts expire over the next five years approximates 1,400 employees in 2016, 700 employees in 2017, and 500 employees in 2018; there are no
contracts currently scheduled to expire in 2019 or 2020. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

Snap-on is involved in various legal matters that are being litigated and/or settled in the ordinary course of business. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal matters,
management believes that the results of these legal matters will not have a material impact on Snap-on’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Note 16: Other Income (Expense) – Net

“Other income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings consists of the
following:

Note 17: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The following is a summary of net changes in Accumulated OCI by component and net of tax for 2015 and 2014:

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The reclassifications out of Accumulated OCI in 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

*

These Accumulated OCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension and postretirement health care costs; see Note 11 and
Note 12 for further information.

Note 18: Segments

Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and
investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group;
and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government
and technical education market segments (collectively, “critical industries”), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair
technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and
managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”), through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on’s finance subsidiaries.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and
intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those
assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment
amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.

Neither

Snap-on

nor any of its segments depend on any single customer, small group of customers or government for more than 10% of its revenues.

Financial Data by Segment:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Financial Data by Segment (continued):

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Financial Data by Segment (continued):

*

Revenues are attributed to countries based on the origin of the sale.

**

Long-lived assets consist of Property and equipment – net, Goodwill, and Other intangibles – net.

Products and Services:

Snap-on

derives net sales from a broad line of products and
complementary services that are grouped into three categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment. The tools product category includes

Snap-on’s

hand
tools, power tools and tool storage products. The diagnostics and repair information product category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts
catalogs, and business management systems and services to help owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships manage and track performance. The equipment product category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of
vehicles and industrial equipment. Through its financial services businesses, Snap-on also derives revenue from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products. Further product line information is not presented as it is
not practicable to do so.

The following table shows the consolidated net sales and revenues of these product groups in the
last three years:


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


Note 19: Quarterly Data

(unaudited)

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of

Snap-on

and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of

Snap-on

and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

2015 ANNUAL REPORT



Item 15(b): Exhibit Index

(

*

)

Except for the foregoing, Snap-on and its subsidiaries have no unregistered long-term debt agreement for
which the related outstanding debt exceeds 10% of consolidated total assets as of January 2, 2016. Copies of debt instruments for which the related debt is less than 10% of consolidated total assets will be furnished to the Commission upon
request.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED


2015 ANNUAL REPORT



*

Filed electronically or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of any materials the company files with
the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s website at

www.sec.gov

. The SEC’s Public Reference Room can be contacted at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC’s Public Reference Room
at 1-800-732-0330.

**

Represents a management compensatory plan or agreement.

***

Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for the twelve months ended January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the twelve months ended January 2,
2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 2, 2016, and January 3, 2015; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity for the twelve months ended January 2,
2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the twelve months ended January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015, and December 28, 2013; and (vi) Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED