
10-K405
FORM 10-K





                        Securities & Exchange Commission

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-7724

                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

    Delaware                                           39-0622040
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

10801 Corporate Drive, Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin           53158-1603
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip code)
      

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 656-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                     Name of exchange on which  registered  
- -------------------                     -------------------------------------
Common stock,  $1 par value             New York Stock Exchange  
Preferred stock purchase rights         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months,  and (2) has been subject to such filing  requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes [ X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if  disclosure of  delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and will not be contained,  to
the best of the registrant's  knowledge,  in a definitive proxy or information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this  Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by  non-affiliates of the registrant
at February 23, 1999:
                                 $1,909,184,462

Number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common stock
at February 23, 1999:
                  Common stock, $1 par value, 65,591,328 shares

Documents incorporated by reference
Portions of the Corporation's  Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended January 2, 1999, are  incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of
this report.

Portions of the Corporation's  Proxy Statement,  dated March 12, 1999,  prepared
for the  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  scheduled  for April 23,  1999,  are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.






                                                                                                            Page

PART I
  Item 1.    Business.........................................................3
  Item 2.    Description of Properties........................................9
  Item 3.    Legal Proceedings...............................................10
  Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.............10

PART II
  Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
            Matters..........................................................11
  Item 6.   Selected Financial Data .........................................11
  Item 7.   Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
            and Results of Operations .......................................11
  Item 7A.  Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk.......11
  Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................11
  Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
            Financial Disclosure ............................................11

PART III
  Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............11
  Item 11.  Executive Compensation...........................................12
  Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...12
  Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................12

PART IV
  Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K..12

Auditor's Reports............................................................13
Signature Pages..............................................................14
Exhibit Index................................................................16





PART I

Item I: Business

Snap-on Incorporated (the "Corporation" or "Snap-on") was incorporated under the
laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated  under the laws of the
state of Delaware in 1930.  Snap-on's  mission is to create  value by  providing
innovative   solutions  to  transportation   service  and  industrial  customers
worldwide.  Snap-on is a leading global developer,  manufacturer and distributor
of professional tools,  equipment and related services marketed in more than 150
countries.  Long known as a quality and performance leader in professional tools
and tool  storage,  Snap-on  now  offers a full  range  of  capabilities  in the
automotive  service  environment.  The Corporation's  largest geographic markets
include the United States,  Australia,  Brazil, Canada, France,  Germany, Japan,
Mexico,  the  Netherlands,  Spain  and the  United  Kingdom.  Customers  include
professional   technicians,   independent  automotive  repair  and  body  shops,
franchised  service  centers,  specialty repair shops,  automotive  dealerships,
vehicle manufacturers, and industry and government. The originator of the dealer
van  distribution  channel,  Snap-on also reaches its customers  through company
direct and distributor channels where appropriate.

The Corporation's business segments are based on the organization structure that
is used by  management  for making  operating and  investment  decisions and for
assessing  performance.  Based on this management approach,  the Corporation has
five reportable  segments:  North America  Transportation,  North America Other,
Europe,  International and Financial Services.  The North America Transportation
segment consists of the Corporation's business operations serving the franchised
dealer channel in the United States and Canada.  The North America Other segment
consists of the Corporation's  business  operations serving the direct sales and
distributor   channels  in  the  United  States  and  Canada,  as  well  as  the
Corporation's exports from the United States. The Europe segment consists of the
Corporation's  operations  in  Europe  and  Africa.  The  International  segment
consists of the  Corporation's  operations in the Asia/Pacific  region and Latin
America.  These four segments derive  revenues  primarily from the sale of tools
and equipment and related  services.  The Financial  Services  segment  provides
financing  to  technicians  and shop owners,  as well as to dealers.  Additional
information about the Corporation's business segments,  customers,  domestic and
international  operations  and  products  and services is provided in Note 13 on
pages 37 and 38 of the Corporation's 1998 Annual Report,  incorporated herein by
reference.

In  1998,  the  Corporation  announced  a  simplification  initiative  ("Project
Simplify") which is a broad program of internal rationalizations, consolidations
and reorganizations.  The goal is to make the Corporation's  business operations
simpler and more effective.  Additional  information  regarding Project Simplify
can be found on page 17, Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note 14 on
pages 38 and 39, of the Corporation's 1998 Annual Report, incorporated herein by
reference.

During 1998,  the  Corporation  acquired  full or partial  ownership of five new
business  operations  and an additional  interest in a business for an aggregate
cash purchase  price of $79.5  million.  Each of the  acquisitions  provides the
Corporation  with a  complementary  product  line,  new customer  relationships,
access to  additional  distribution  and/or  extended  geographic  reach.  These
acquisitions  were 100%  interests in White  Industries  ("White"),  Hein-Werner
Corporation ("Hein-Werner"), Nationwide International L.L.C. ("Nationwide"), and
G.S.  S.r.l.  ("G.S.");  a 55%  interest  in  Cartec  GmbH  ("Cartec");  and  an
additional  10%  interest  in  the  Thompson   Corporation's   Mitchell   Repair
Information  business.  Subsequent  to  the  end of the  year,  the  Corporation
announced  that it had  exercised  its call option to purchase  from its venture
partner,  The Thompson  Corporation,  a further stake in their  Mitchell  Repair
Information  business,  which will  result in  Snap-on's  owning 99% of Mitchell
Repair Information Company ("MRIC").

White manufactures  equipment used to recover,  recycle and recharge refrigerant
in vehicle  air-conditioning  systems.  Hein-Werner is a leading manufacturer of
collision  repair  products  in  North  America  and  Europe.  Nationwide  is  a
franchisor  of vehicle and service  repair  facilities.  G.S. is an  Italy-based
manufacturer  and  distributor  of wheel service  equipment.  Cartec is a German
manufacturer  of test and safety  lane  equipment.  MRIC is a major  provider of
print and  electronic  versions  of vehicle  mechanical  and  electrical  repair
information and of shop management software to repair and service establishments
throughout North America.

Products and Services

The Corporation derives income from the manufacture,  marketing and distribution
of its  products  and  related  services,  and the  financing  of certain of its
products.  The  Corporation's  four  reportable  manufacturing,   marketing  and
distribution




segments offer a broad line of products and complementary  services which can be
divided into two groups:  tools and  equipment.  The  following  table shows the
approximate percentage of consolidated sales for each of these product groups in
each of the past three years.


Product Group                     % of Sales
                            1998     1997     1996
Tools                        52%      55%      58%
Equipment                    48%      45%      42%
                            ----    -----    -----
                            100%     100%     100%

The tools  product  group  includes  hand tools,  power  tools and tool  storage
products. Hand tools include wrenches,  screwdrivers,  sockets, pliers, ratchets
and other similar products,  and instruments  developed for medical applications
and for the  manufacture  and  servicing of  electronic  equipment.  Power tools
include pneumatic (air), cord-free (battery) and corded (electric) tools such as
impact  wrenches,  ratchets,  chisels,  drills,  sanders,  polishers and similar
products.  Tool  storage  units  include tool  chests,  roll  cabinets and other
similar  products  for  automotive,  industrial,  aerospace  and  other  storage
applications.  The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on; to complete
the product line, some items are purchased from external manufacturers.

The equipment  product group  includes  hardware and software  solutions for the
diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial  equipment.  Products include
engine and  emissions  analyzers,  air  conditioning  service  equipment,  brake
service  equipment,  wheel  balancing  and  alignment  equipment,   transmission
troubleshooting equipment,  vehicle safety testing equipment,  battery chargers,
lifts and hoists,  diagnostics  equipment and collision repair  equipment.  Also
included  are  service  and repair  information  products,  on-line  diagnostics
services,  management  systems,  point of sale systems,  integrated  systems for
automotive  repair shops, and purchasing  facilitation  services.  In the United
States, the Corporation  supports the sale of its diagnostics and shop equipment
by offering  training  programs to technician  customers.  These  programs offer
certification in both specific automotive technologies and in the application of
specific diagnostics equipment developed and marketed by the Corporation.

Tools and equipment are marketed  under a number of brand names and  trademarks,
many of which are well known in the automotive and  industrial  markets  served.
Some of the major trade names and  trademarks and the products and services with
which they are associated include the following:

       Trade Names/Trademarks   Products and Services
                                
       Snap-on                  Hand tools, power tools, tool storage units, and
                                certain equipment
                                
       Blue Point               Hand tools, power tools, tool storage units
                                
       J.H. Williams (Williams  Hand tools
                                
       A.T.I. Tools (ATI)       Tools and equipment for aerospace and industrial
                                applications
                                
       Sioux Tools (Sioux)      Power tools
                                
       Sun Electric (Sun)       Diagnostics and service equipment
                                
       Balco                    Engine diagnostics and wheel balancers
                                
       White                    Equipment  to  recover,   recycle  and  recharge
                                refrigerant in vehicle air-conditioning systems
                                
       John Bean                Under-car and other service equipment
                                
       Wheeltronic              Hoists and lifts for vehicle service shops
                                
       Hofmann                  Wheel  balancers,   lifts,   tire  changers  and
                                aligners
                                
       G.S.                     Wheel service equipment
                         



       
       Brewco                   Frame straightening equipment, vehicle measuring
                                systems, paint booths and other collision repair
                                equipment
                                
       Hein-Werner              Collision repair products
                                
       Mitchell                 Repair   and   service   information   and  shop
                                management systems
                                
The Financial  Services  segment offers credit programs that facilitate the sale
of many of the  Corporation's  products  and  services.  Through  a  contractual
arrangement,  extended  credit is  offered  to  technicians  to  enable  them to
purchase tools and equipment that can be used to generate  income while they pay
for the products over time.  Financing,  in a lease  format,  is also offered to
shop owners, both independent and national chains, who purchase equipment items,
which  typically  are higher price point  products  than tools.  The duration of
lease contracts is often two to three times that of extended credit contracts.

The Corporation's financing activities have been conducted primarily through its
Snap-on Credit  Corporation (the "Credit Corp")  subsidiary.  The Credit Corp is
responsible for certain credit and non-credit services used to support sales and
to provide dealer financing options. Currently, the majority of its revenues are
derived from the automotive service industry in North America.

Credit Corp also makes  available  financing to new  dealers,  whereby a 10-year
loan is  originated  to enable the dealer to fund the purchase of the  franchise
and the related  working  capital  needs,  particularly  inventory  and customer
receivables.

On January 3, 1999,  the  Corporation  established a joint venture with Newcourt
Financial  USA  Inc.   ("Newcourt")  to  provide   financial   services  to  the
Corporation's global dealer and customer network. Such services will be provided
through a limited  liability  company  know as Snap-on  Credit LLC (the  "LLC"),
which is 50% owned by the Corporation and 50% owned by Newcourt.  As a result of
the establishment of the joint venture, the Corporation  effectively  outsourced
to the  LLC the  credit  function  that  the  Credit  Corp  previously  managed.
Additional  information  about the LLC is  provided in Note 15 on page 39 of the
Corporation's 1998 Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

Market Sectors Served

The  Corporation  markets and  distributes  its  products  and related  services
primarily  to  professional  users around the world in two market  sectors:  the
vehicle service and repair sector, and the industrial sector

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The  vehicle  service  and  repair  sector  has  three  main  customer   groups:
professional  technicians,  primarily  in  the  vehicle  service  industry,  who
purchase tools and equipment for themselves;  service and repair shop owners and
managers  --  including   independent  shops,  national  chains  and  automotive
dealerships -- who purchase  equipment for use by multiple  technicians within a
service or repair facility; and vehicle manufacturers.

The Corporation  provides  innovative tool and equipment  solutions,  as well as
technical  sales  support and training,  to meet  technicians'  evolving  needs.
Snap-on's dealer van distribution  system offers  technicians the convenience of
purchasing  quality tools with minimal  disruption  of their work  routine.  The
Corporation also serves owners and managers of shops where technicians work with
tools,  diagnostics  equipment,   repair  and  service  information,   and  shop
management  products.   Snap-on  provides  vehicle  manufacturers  products  and
services   including   tools,   facilitation   services  for  the  purchase  and
distribution of equipment, and consulting services.

Major challenges for the Corporation and the vehicle service and repair industry
include the increasing rate of technological  change within motor vehicles,  and
the evolution in the conduct of business by both suppliers and customers that is
necessitated by such change.





Industrial Sector

The Corporation markets its products to a wide variety of industrial  customers,
including  industrial  maintenance  and  repair  facilities;  manufacturing  and
assembly operations;  industrial distributors;  government facilities;  schools;
and original  equipment  manufacturers  ("OEMs") who require  instrumentation or
service tools and equipment for their products.

Major  challenges  in  the  industrial  market  include  a  highly  competitive,
cost-conscious  environment,  and a trend toward  customers  making all of their
tool purchases through one integrated  supplier.  The Corporation believes it is
currently  a  meaningful  participant  in the  market for  industrial  tools and
equipment.


Distribution Channels

The  Corporation   serves   customers   primarily   through  three  channels  of
distribution:  dealer/tech  reps,  company direct sales, and  distributors.  The
following  discussion  represents  the  Corporation's  general  approach in each
channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Dealer/Tech Rep Organization

In the United States,  the majority of sales to the automotive  repair  industry
are conducted  through the  Corporation's  dealer/tech  rep network;  the market
served by this  network  centers on  professional  technicians  and shop owners.
Snap-on's mobile dealer van system covers automotive technicians and independent
shop owners, calling weekly at the customer's place of business.  Dealers' sales
are  concentrated  in hand and power tools and some small  equipment,  which can
easily be  transported in a van and  demonstrated  during a brief sales call, as
well as in tool storage units. Dealers purchase the Corporation's  products at a
discount from suggested  retail prices and resell them at prices of the dealer's
choosing.  Although some dealers have sales areas defined by other methods, most
U.S. dealers are provided a list of places of business which serves as the basis
of the dealer's sales route.

The dealer  sales force is supported by the  Snap-on/Sun  Tech Systems  employee
sales force ("Tech Specialists"), who work with dealers in the demonstration and
sale of  diagnostics  equipment and also sell  higher-end  diagnostics  and shop
equipment on their own. Tech Specialists are compensated  primarily on the basis
of  commission;  dealers  receive a commission  for  referring  business to Tech
Specialists.

Most products sold through the dealer/tech rep  organization  are sold under the
Snap-on or Sun brand names.

Since 1991, all new U.S. dealers, and a majority of existing U.S. dealers,  have
been enrolled as  franchisees  of the  Corporation.  The  Corporation  currently
charges initial and ongoing monthly license fees, which do not add materially to
the  Corporation's  revenues.  The Corporation makes it possible for prospective
dealer  candidates  to work as employee  sales  representatives,  at salary plus
commission,  for up to one year prior to making an investment in a franchise. In
addition,  through Snap-on  Financial  Services,  Inc. and its  subsidiary,  the
Credit Corp, the Corporation  provides financial  assistance for newly converted
franchised  dealers  and  other  new  franchise  dealers,  which  could  include
financing for initial license fees,  inventory,  revolving  accounts  receivable
acquisition, equipment, fixtures, other expenses and an initial checking account
deposit.  At year-end 1998,  approximately  89 percent of all U.S.  dealers were
enrolled as franchisees.

The  Corporation  services and  supports  its dealers  with an  extensive  field
organization  of branch  offices  and  service  and  distribution  centers.  The
Corporation  also  provides  sales  training,   customer  and  dealer  financial
assistance, and marketing and product promotion programs to help maximize dealer
sales. A National Dealer Advisory  Council,  composed of and elected by dealers,
assists the  Corporation in identifying  and  implementing  enhancements  to the
franchise program.

The  Corporation has replicated its dealer van method of distribution in certain
countries,  including Australia, Canada, Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands, Japan
and the United  Kingdom.  In these markets,  as in the United  States,  purchase
decisions  are  generally  made by  professional  technicians.  The  Corporation
markets  products in certain other  countries  through its  subsidiary,  Snap-on
Tools International,  Ltd., which sells to foreign distributors under license or
contract with the Corporation.



Company Direct Sales

In the United States, a growing proportion of sales of Snap-on and Sun equipment
are made by a direct sales force that has  responsibility for national accounts.
As the automotive service and repair industry  consolidates,  with more business
conducted by national  chains,  automotive  dealerships  and franchised  service
centers,  these larger  organizations  can be serviced most effectively by sales
people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of products and services.  The
Corporation   also  sells  its  products   and  services   directly  to  vehicle
manufacturers.

Tools and equipment are marketed to industrial  and  governmental  customers and
for the  medical  profession  in the  United  States  through  industrial  sales
representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial distributors. The
sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria
are quality and service, as well as on certain OEM accounts. At the end of 1998,
the  Corporation  had  industrial  sales  representatives  in the United States,
Canada, Australia, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and some European countries, with
the  United  States   representing  the  majority  of  the  Corporation's  total
industrial sales.

Tools and  equipment for the U.S.  industrial  and  government  markets are sold
through a direct sales force as well as through industrial distributors. In most
markets  outside  the United  States,  industrial  sales are  conducted  through
distributors.

Distributors

Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through  automotive and industrial
distributors,  who  purchase  the items from  Snap-on and resell them to the end
users.  Products sold through  distributors in North America,  Europe and select
other parts of the world include  under-car and other service  equipment.  These
products are sold under brands including John Bean, Hofmann,  Irimo, Palmero and
Acesa,  and are  differentiated  from those sold through the dealer/tech rep and
direct sales channels.  Sun brand equipment is marketed through  distributors in
South America and Asia,  and through both a direct sales force and  distributors
in Europe.

Competition

The Corporation  competes on the basis of its product  quality,  service,  brand
awareness and technological  innovation.  While no one company competes with the
Corporation across all of its product lines and distribution  channels,  various
companies  compete  in  one  or  more  product  categories  and/or  distribution
channels.

The Corporation  believes that it is a leading  manufacturer  and distributor of
its products for the customers it serves in the vehicle  service  industry,  and
that it offers the broadest  line of products to the vehicle  service  industry.
The major competitors selling to professional technicians in the vehicle service
and repair sector through the mobile van channel  include MAC Tools (The Stanley
Works) and Matco  (Danaher  Corporation).  The  Corporation  also  competes with
companies  that sell through  non-mobile  van  distributors;  these  competitors
include The Stanley Works,  Sears,  Roebuck and Co., and Strafor  Facom.  In the
industrial sector,  major competitors  include Armstrong (Danaher  Corporation),
Cooper  Industries,  Inc. and Proto (The Stanley Works).  The major  competitors
selling diagnostics and shop equipment to shop owners in the vehicle service and
repair sector include SPX Corporation,  Corghi S.p.A.,  Pentair, Inc. and Hunter
Engineering.

Raw Material & Purchased Product

The Corporation's supply of raw materials (including primarily various grades of
steel bars and sheets) and  purchased  components  are  readily  available  from
numerous suppliers.

The majority of 1998  consolidated net sales consisted of products  manufactured
by the  Corporation.  The  remainder was purchased  from outside  suppliers.  No
single supplier's products accounted for a material portion of 1998 consolidated
net sales.





Patents and Trademarks

The Corporation  vigorously  pursues and relies on patent  protection to protect
its  inventions  and its  position in its  markets.  As of January 2, 1999,  the
Corporation and its subsidiaries  held over 1,000 patents  worldwide,  with more
than 600 pending  patent  applications.  No sales  relating to any single patent
represent a material portion of the Corporation's revenues in 1998.

Examples of products  that have  features or designs  that  benefit  from patent
protection  include  engine  analyzers,  serrated jaw open-end  wrenches,  wheel
alignment systems, wheel balancers, sealed ratchets, electronic torque wrenches,
ratcheting   screwdrivers,   emissions  sensing  devices  and  air  conditioning
equipment.

Much of the  technology  used  in the  manufacturing  of  automotive  tools  and
equipment is in the public domain.  The  Corporation  relies  primarily on trade
secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing.
Methods and processes are patented when appropriate.

Trademarks  used  by  the  Corporation  are  of  continuing  importance  to  the
Corporation in the  marketplace.  Trademarks  have been registered in the United
States  and 78  other  countries,  and  additional  applications  for  trademark
registrations are pending. The Corporation  rigorously polices proper use of its
trademarks.

The  Corporation's  right to manufacture and sell certain  products is dependent
upon licenses from others. These products do not represent a material portion of
the Corporation's sales.

Working Capital

Because most of the  Corporation's  business is not seasonal,  and its inventory
needs are relatively constant, no unusual working capital needs arise during the
year.

The  Corporation's use of working capital to extend credit to its dealers and to
purchase   installment   credit   receivables   from  dealers  is  discussed  in
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition,"  which is found on pages 17 to 23 of the  Corporation's  1998 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

The Corporation does not depend on any single customer, small group of customers
or government for any material part of its sales, and has no significant backlog
of orders.

Environment

The Corporation complies with applicable  environmental  control requirements in
its  operations.  Compliance has not had, and the  Corporation  does not for the
foreseeable  future expect it to have, a material effect upon the  Corporation's
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

At the end of 1998, the Corporation  employed  approximately  12,000 people,  of
whom approximately 38 percent are engaged in manufacturing activities.






Item 2: Description of Properties

The  Corporation  maintains  both  leased  and owned  manufacturing,  warehouse,
distribution  and  office  facilities  throughout  the  world.  The  Corporation
believes that its facilities are well maintained and have a capacity adequate to
meet the Corporation's  present and foreseeable future demand. The Corporation's
U.S.  facilities  occupy   approximately  4.6  million  square  feet,  of  which
approximately 75 percent is owned. The Corporation's facilities outside the U.S.
contain approximately 2.6 million square feet, of which approximately 52 percent
is owned.

The Corporation's principal manufacturing locations and distribution centers are
as follows:

Location                       Type of property                 Owned/Leased
- --------                       ----------------                 ------------
Conway, Arkansas               Manufacturing                    Owned
City of Industry, California   Manufacturing                    Leased
Escondido, California          Manufacturing                    Owned
San Jose, California           Manufacturing                    Leased
Columbus, Georgia              Manufacturing                    Owned

Crystal Lake, Illinois         Distribution and manufacturing   Owned
Mt. Carmel, Illinois           Manufacturing                    Owned
Ottawa, Illinois               Distribution                     Owned
Algona, Iowa                   Manufacturing                    Owned
Sioux City, Iowa               Manufacturing                    Owned

Natick, Massachusetts          Manufacturing                    Owned
Olive Branch, Mississippi      Distribution                     Leased and owned
Carson City, Nevada            Distribution                     Leased and owned
Robesonia, Pennsylvania        Distribution                     Owned
Johnson City, Tennessee        Manufacturing                    Owned

Elizabethton, Tennessee        Manufacturing                    Owned
Baraboo, Wisconsin             Manufacturing                    Leased
East Troy, Wisconsin           Manufacturing                    Owned
Elkhorn, Wisconsin             Manufacturing                    Owned
Kenosha, Wisconsin             Manufacturing                    Owned

Milwaukee, Wisconsin           Manufacturing                    Owned
Sydney, Australia              Distribution                     Leased
Barbara D'oeste, Brazil        Manufacturing                    Owned
Calgary, Canada                Distribution                     Leased
Mississagua, Canada            Manufacturing                    Leased

Newmarket, Canada              Distribution and manufacturing   Owned
Kettering, England             Distribution                     Owned
King's Lynn, England           Distribution and manufacturing   Owned
Altmittweida, Germany          Distribution                     Owned
Pfungstadt, Germany            Manufacturing                    Leased

Unterneukirchen, Germany       Manufacturing                    Leased
Sopron, Hungary                Manufacturing                    Owned
Shannon, Ireland               Manufacturing                    Leased
Corregio, Italy                Manufacturing                    Owned
Tokyo, Japan                   Distribution                     Leased

Amsterdam, the Netherlands     Distribution                     Owned
Irun, Spain                    Manufacturing                    Owned
Soria, Spain                   Manufacturing                    Owned
Urretxu, Spain                 Manufacturing                    Owned
Vitoria, Spain                 Distribution and manufacturing   Owned






Item 3: Legal Proceedings

The Corporation  intervened in litigation  commenced by Tejas Testing Technology
One, L.C. and Tejas Testing Technology Two, L.C. (the "Tejas Companies"), and is
involved  in a suit  with  SPX  Corporation,  as  described  in  Note  12 to the
Financial  Statements of the  Corporation  on pages 36 and 37 of its 1998 Annual
Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

There was no matter  submitted to a vote of the  shareholders  during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ending January 2, 1999.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Corporation, their ages as of January 2, 1999, and
their current  titles and  positions  held during the last five years are listed
below.

Robert A.  Cornog  (58) -  Chairman,  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer
since July 1991.  A Director since 1982.

Branko M. Beronja (64) - Executive  Vice  President  since October 1998.  Senior
Vice  President - Diagnostics  from  February 1998 to October 1998.  Senior Vice
President  -  Diagnostics,  North  America  from  April 1996 to  February  1998.
President - North  American  Operations  from April 1994 to April 1996, and Vice
President - Sales,  North  America  from  August 1989 to April 1994.  A Director
since January 1997.

Frederick D. Hay (54) - Senior Vice  President - Operations  since October 1998.
Senior Vice President - Transportation from February 1996 to October 1998. Prior
to joining  Snap-on,  he was  President of the Interior  Systems and  Components
Division of UT Automotive,  a business unit of United Technologies  Corporation,
from December 1989 to January 1996.

Donald S. Huml  (52) - Senior  Vice  President  -  Finance  and Chief  Financial
Officer since August 1994. Prior to joining  Snap-on,  he was Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Saint-Gobain Corporation from December 1990 to August
1994.

Michael F.  Montemurro  (50) - Senior  Vice  President  -  Transportation  since
October 1998. Senior Vice President - Financial Services and Administration from
August  1994 to October  1998.  Senior  Vice  President  -  Financial  Services,
Administration  and Chief  Financial  Officer  from April  1994 to August  1994.
Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief  Financial  Officer from March 1990 to
April 1994.

Neil T. Smith (44) - Controller since November 1997.  Financial  Controller from
June 1997 to November  1997.  Director of Financial  Analysis and Planning  from
December 1994 to May 1997. Prior to joining Snap-on,  he was Director of Finance
for the Nielsen Marketing  Research  Division of Dun and Bradstreet  Corporation
from January 1991 to December 1994.

Susan F. Marrinan (50) - Vice  President,  Secretary and General Counsel since
January 1992.

There is no family  relationship among the executive officers and there has been
no  involvement  in legal  proceedings  during the past five years that would be
material to the  evaluation  of the ability or integrity of any of the executive
officers.  Executive  officers  may be  elected  by the  board of  directors  or
appointed by the Chief Executive  Officer at the regular meeting of the board of
directors  which follows the Annual  Shareholders'  Meeting,  held on the fourth
Friday of April each year,  and at such other times as new positions are created
or vacancies must be filled.






PART II

Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

On June 26, 1998, the Corporation's board of directors authorized the repurchase
of up to $100.0 million of the Corporation's common stock. On June 27, 1997, the
Corporation's board of directors  authorized the repurchase of $100.0 million of
the  Corporation's  common stock over a two-year period. At the end of 1998, the
1997  authorization  essentially  had  been  exhausted,  and  all  of  the  1998
authorization remained available.  In 1996, the Corporation's board of directors
approved an ongoing authorization to repurchase stock in an amount equivalent to
that necessary to prevent  dilution  created by shares issued for stock options,
employee and dealer stock purchase plans, and other corporate purposes. In 1998,
the Corporation  repurchased  2,279,400 shares of its common stock at an average
price of $39.64.

At  January 2, 1999,  the  Corporation  had  65,668,945  shares of common  stock
outstanding. This consists of 58,744,926 shares which are considered outstanding
for purposes of computing earnings per share and an additional  6,924,019 shares
held in a Grantor  Stock  Trust  which are  considered  outstanding  for  voting
purposes only.

Subsequent  to the end of the year,  at its January 1999  meeting,  the board of
directors  authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $50.0 million of the
Corporation's common stock.

Additional  information  required by Item 5 is contained on in the Six-year Data
and Investor  Information  on pages 41 and 45 of the  Corporation's  1998 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6: Selected Financial Data

The information required by Item 6 is contained in the Quarterly Information and
Six-year Data on pages 40 and 41 of the Corporation's  1998 Annual Report and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7:  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
        Results of Operations

The  information  required  by  Item 7 is  contained  on  pages  17 to 23 of the
Corporation's 1998 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A: Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The  information  required  by Item 7A is  contained  on  pages 22 and 32 of the
Corporation's 1998 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The  information  required  by  Item 8 is  contained  on  pages  24 to 39 of the
Corporation's 1998 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9:  Changes in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  identification  of the  Corporation's  directors  as required by Item 10 is
contained in the  Corporation's  Proxy  Statement,  dated March 12, 1999, and is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to said  Proxy  Statement.  With  respect to
information about the Corporation's  executive officers,  see caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of this report.

The disclosure  concerning Section 16(a) filing compliance  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is contained on page 19 of the Corporation's  Proxy Statement,
dated March 12,  1999,  and is  incorporated  herein by  reference to said Proxy
Statement.





Item 11: Executive Compensation

The  information  required  by Item 11 is  contained  on  pages  15 to 18 of the
Corporation's Proxy Statement,  dated March 12, 1999, and is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by  Item  12 is  contained  on  pages  8 to 9 of the
Corporation's Proxy Statement,  dated March 12, 1999, and is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

None.

PART IV

Item 14: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

Item 14(A):  Document List

1.  List of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated, and the
Auditors'  Report  thereon,  each  included  in the 1998  Annual  Report  of the
Corporation  to its  shareholders  for the  year  ended  January  2,  1999,  are
incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998.

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended January 2, 1999, January
   3, 1998 and December 28, 1996.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income for the
years ended January 2, 1999, January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996.

Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows for the years  ended  January  2, 1999,
January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2.  Financial Statement Schedule

The following  consolidated financial statement schedule of Snap-on Incorporated
is included in Item 14(d) as a separate section of this report.

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.      Page 18

All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations  of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  are  inapplicable  and,
therefore,  have been omitted,  or are included in the Corporation's 1998 Annual
Report in the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for the years ended
January 2, 1999,  January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996,  which are incorporated
by reference in Item 8 of this report.

3.  List of Exhibits

The  exhibits  filed with or  incorporated  by reference in this report are as
specified in the exhibit index. Page 16

Item 14(B):  Reports on Form 8-K

During the fourth  quarter of 1998, the  Corporation  reported on Form 8-K dated
October 22, 1998 its third quarter 1998 Analyst Bulletin.

Subsequent to year-end,  the Corporation  reported on Form 8-K dated January 19,
1999 that the  Corporation  and Newcourt  Financial  USA Inc. had  established a
joint  venture  known as Snap-on  Credit LLC,  which will serve as the preferred
provider of financial  services to the Corporation's  global dealer and customer
network.






                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing  standards,  the
financial  statements  included in Snap-on  Incorporated's  (the  "Corporation")
Annual Report to Shareholders,  incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report  thereon dated  February 2, 1999.  Our audit was made for
the  purpose of forming an  opinion on those  statements  taken as a whole.  The
schedule listed on page 18 is the responsibility of the Corporation's management
and is  presented  for purposes of complying  with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission's  rules  and is not part of the  basic  financial  statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing  procedures  applied in the audit of
the  basic  financial  statements  and,  in our  opinion,  fairly  states in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                          /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 2, 1999



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


As independent  public  accountants,  we hereby consent to the  incorporation by
reference in this Form 10-K of our report dated February 2, 1999 included in the
Corporation's   previously  filed  Registration  Statement  File  Nos.  2-53663,
2-53578, 33-7471, 33-22417,  33-37924,  33-39660,  33-57898, 33-55607, 33-58939,
33-58943, 333-14769, 333-21277, 333-21285 and 333-41359. It should be noted that
we have not audited any financial  statements of the  Corporation  subsequent to
January 2, 1999 or performed any audit procedures  subsequent to the date of our
report.


                                          /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Chicago, Illinois
March 29, 1999








                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Corporation  has duly  caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


 SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

By: /s/ R. A. Cornog                                       Date: March 26, 1999
    R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
    President and Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the
capacities as indicated.



    /s/ R. A. Cornog                                       Date: March 26, 1999 
    R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
    President and Chief Executive Officer



    /s/ D. S. Huml                                         Date: March 26, 1999 
    D. S. Huml, Principal Financial Officer,
    and Senior Vice President - Finance



    /s/ N. T. Smith                                        Date: March 26, 1999 
    N. T. Smith, Principal Accounting Officer,
    and Controller






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the
capacities as indicated.


By: /s/ B. M. Beronja                                      Date: March 26, 1999
    B. M. Beronja, Director


By: /s/ D. W. Brinckman                                    Date: March 26, 1999
    D. W. Brinckman, Director


By: /s/ B. S. Chelberg                                     Date: March 26, 1999 
    B. S. Chelberg, Director


By: /s/ R. J. Decyk                                        Date: March 26, 1999 
    R. J. Decyk, Director


By:  /s/ L. A. Hadley                                      Date: March 26, 1999
    L. A. Hadley, Director


By: /s/ A. L. Kelly                                        Date: March 26, 1999
    A. L. Kelly, Director


By: /s/ G. W. Mead                                         Date: March 26, 1999
    G. W. Mead, Director


By: /s/ J. D. Michaels                                     Date: March 26, 1999 
    J. D. Michaels, Director


By: /s/ E. H. Rensi                                        Date: March 26, 1999
    E. H. Rensi, Director


By: /s/ R. F. Teerlink                                     Date: March 26, 1999
    R. F. Teerlink, Director






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
Item 14(c):  Exhibits
- ---------------------
  (3) (a)     Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  the  Corporation  as
              amended  through  April 25, 1997  (incorporated  by  reference  to
              Exhibit (3)(a) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the  fiscal  year  ended  January  2,  1998  (Commission  File No.
              1-7724))

      (b)     Bylaws  of the  Corporation,  effective  as of  January  26,  1996
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(b) to the  Corporation's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 30,
              1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))

  (4) (a)     Rights  Agreement  between the Corporation and First Chicago Trust
              Company of New York, effective as of August 22, 1997 (incorporated
              by reference to the  Corporation's  Form 8-A12B dated  October 17,
              1997 (Commission File No. 1-7724))

       The Corporation and its subsidiaries have no long-term debt agreement for
       which the related  outstanding  debt  exceeds 10% of  consolidated  total
       assets as of January 2, 1999.  Copies of debt  instruments  for which the
       related  debt is less  than  10% of  consolidated  total  assets  will be
       furnished to the Commission upon request.

  (10)  Material Contracts

      (a)     Amended and Restated  Snap-on  Incorporated  1986 Incentive  Stock
              Program  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  (10)(a) to the
              Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 28, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

      (b)     Form of Restated Senior Officer  Agreement between the Corporation
              and each of Robert A. Cornog, Branko M. Beronja, Frederick D. Hay,
              Donald  S.  Huml  and  Michael  F.  Montemurro   (incorporated  by
              reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995  (Commission
              File No. 1-7724))*

      (c)     Form of Restated  Executive  Agreement between the Corporation and
              each of Alan T. Biland, Sharon M. Brady, Richard V. Caskey, Dan G.
              Craighead,  Dale  F.  Elliott,  Nicholas  L.  Loffredo,  Denis  J.
              Loverine,  Susan F.  Marrinan and Neil T. Smith  (incorporated  by
              reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995  (Commission
              File No. 1-7724))*

      (d)     Deferred  Compensation  Waiver  and  Insurance  Benefit  Agreement
              between the  Corporation  and Robert A. Cornog  dated  January 30,
              1998.*

      (e)     Deferred  Compensation  Waiver  and  Insurance  Benefit  Agreement
              between the  Corporation  and Branko M. Beronja dated December 21,
              1998*

      (f)     Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Corporation and each
              of the  Directors,  Frederick  D. Hay,  Donald S.  Huml,  Susan F.
              Marrinan  and  Michael F.  Montemurro  effective  October 24, 1997
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(a) to the  Corporation's
              Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  January 2,
              1998 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

      (g)     Amended and Restated Snap-on Incorporated Directors' 1993 Fee Plan
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(e) to the Corporation's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 28,
              1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

      (h)     Snap-on Incorporated  Deferred  Compensation Plan (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (10)(f) to the Corporation's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996  (Commission
              File No. 1-7724))*

      (i)     Snap-on  Incorporated  Supplemental  Retirement  Plan for Officers
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to the Corporation's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 30,
              1995 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*





                            EXHIBIT INDEX (continued)

      (j)     Benefit Trust  Agreement  between the Corporation and The Northern
              Trust  Company,  effective  as of July 2,  1998  (incorporated  by
              reference  to the  Corporation's  Form  8-K  dated  July  2,  1998
              (Commission File No. 1-7724))


  (12)        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

  (13)        Annual Report to Shareholders

  (21)        Subsidiaries of the Corporation

  (23)        Consent of Independent Public Accountants

  (27)        Fiscal 1998 Financial Data Schedule

  * Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement








