
10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998

   [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   Commission File Number 1-7724

                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                      39-0622040             
   (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   incorporation or organization)

   10801 Corporate Drive, Kenosha, Wisconsin                      53141-1430 
   (Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip code) 

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (414) 656-5200

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class                   Name of exchange on which registered
   Common stock, $1 par value                        New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred stock purchase rights                   New York Stock Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
   of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such
   filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [ X]  No [   ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in a definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

   Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   registrant at February 24, 1998: 
                                 $2,475,359,776

   Number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common
   stock at February 24, 1998:
                  Common stock, $1 par value, 60,005,182 shares

   Documents incorporated by reference 
   Portions of the Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
   year ended January 3, 1998, are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II
   and IV of this report.

   Portions of the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1998,
   prepared for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 24,
   1998, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

   

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS                        Page

   PART I
    Item  1.   Business  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
    Item  2.   Description of Properties   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
    Item  3.   Legal Proceedings   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
    Item  4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   . .   10
    Item  4.1. Executive Officers of the Registrant  . . . . . . . . . .   10

   PART II
    Item  5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
               Stockholder Matters   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
    Item  6.   Selected Financial Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
    Item  7.   Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial
               Condition and Results of Operations   . . . . . . . . . .   11
    Item  8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   . . . . . .   11
    Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure   . . . . . . . . . .   11

   PART III
    Item  10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  . . .   11
    Item  11.  Executive Compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
    Item  12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
               and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
    Item  13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  . . . . .   11

   PART IV
    Item  14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
               on Form 8-K   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
    
   Auditor's Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
   Signature Pages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
   Exhibit Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16

   

   PART I

   Item I: Business

   Snap-on Incorporated (the "Corporation" or "Snap-on") is a leading
   manufacturer and distributor of high-quality hand tools, power tools, tool
   storage products, diagnostics equipment, shop equipment, emissions/safety
   equipment, collision repair equipment and systems, diagnostics software,
   business management software for automotive repair shops, and related
   products and services. Snap-on's mission is to create value by providing
   innovative solutions to the transportation service and industrial markets
   worldwide; therefore, the Corporation's products and services are used
   mainly by professional technicians and managers in vehicle service and
   industrial applications. Customers include professional technicians,
   independent automotive repair and body shops, franchised service centers,
   specialty repair shops, automotive dealerships, vehicle manufacturers,
   industrial and government entities, and other professional tool and
   equipment users.

   The Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin
   in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
   1930. Its corporate headquarters are located in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The
   Corporation has operations throughout the world. Its largest markets
   include the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany,
   Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. Products and
   services are marketed and distributed in more than 150 countries through
   distribution channels that include dealer vans, direct sales forces and
   distributors.

   In 1997 the Corporation acquired business operations that expanded its
   product line, distribution channels and geographic reach. A 50% interest
   was acquired in The Thomson Corporation's Mitchell Repair Information
   business, a provider of print and electronic versions of vehicle
   mechanical and electrical system repair information to vehicle repair and
   service establishments throughout North America. The Corporation is
   obligated to purchase the remaining business over the next four years.  A
   70% interest was acquired in Texo S.r.l., an Italian manufacturer of lifts
   for motor vehicles. Several other businesses were acquired in their
   entirety. Service Equipment France, S.A. is a French distributor of
   automotive service and repair equipment; its subsidiary, JPL Services,
   S.A.,  provides service and repair for equipment products. Computer Aided
   Service, Inc. ("CAS") is a developer of repair shop management systems,
   point of sale systems and diagnostics equipment. CAS provides shop-wide
   connectivity by networking business management computers with diagnostics
   systems. Nu-Tech Industries, Inc., more commonly known as Brewco Collision
   Repair, is a manufacturer and supplier of frame straightening equipment,
   vehicle measuring systems, paint booths and other collision repair
   equipment. The acquisition of this company represents Snap-on's entry into
   the collision repair industry. Hofmann Werkstatt-Technik GmbH ("Hofmann"),
   a German company, is a leading producer of under-car equipment including
   wheel balancers, lifts, tire changers and aligners. Hofmann's products are
   sold in Europe, North America and the Asia/Pacific region.

   Products and Services

   The Corporation derives income from the manufacture, marketing and
   distribution of its products and related services, and the financing of
   certain of its products.  The Corporation's manufacturing, marketing and
   distribution operation offers a broad line of products and complementary
   services which can be divided into two groups: tools and equipment and
   related services. The following table shows the approximate percentage of
   consolidated sales for each of these product groups in each of the past
   three years.

   Product Group                          % of Sales
                                 1997        1996          1995
   Tools
     Hand tools                   38%         40%          40%
     Power tools                   8%          8%          10%
     Tool storage                  9%         10%          10%
                                 ----        ----         ----
                                  55%         58%          60%
   Equipment and Related
    Services                      45%         42%          40%
                                 ----        ----         ----
                                 100%        100%         100%


   The tools product group includes hand tools, power tools and tool storage
   products. Hand tools include wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets, pliers,
   ratchets and other similar products, and instruments developed for medical
   applications and for the manufacture and servicing of electronic
   equipment. Power tools include pneumatic (air), cord-free (battery) and
   corded (electric) tools such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels,
   drills, sanders, polishers and similar products. Tool storage units
   include tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products for
   automotive, industrial, aerospace and other storage applications. The
   majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on; to complete the product
   line, some items are purchased from external manufacturers.

   The equipment and related services group includes hardware and software
   solutions for the diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial
   equipment. Products include engine and emissions analyzers, air
   conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, wheel balancing
   and alignment equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, vehicle
   safety testing equipment, battery chargers, lifts and hoists, diagnostics
   equipment and collision repair equipment. Also included are service and
   repair information products, on-line diagnostics services, management
   systems, point of sale systems, integrated systems for automotive repair
   shops, and purchasing facilitation services. In the United States the
   Corporation supports the sale of its diagnostics and shop equipment by
   offering training programs to technician customers. These programs offer
   certification in both specific automotive technologies and in the
   application of specific diagnostics equipment developed and marketed by
   the Corporation.

   Tools and equipment and related services are marketed under a number of
   brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the automotive
   and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and
   trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated
   include the following:

    Trade Names/Trademarks          Products and Services

    Snap-on                         Hand tools, power tools, tool storage
                                    units, and certain equipment

    Blue Point                      Hand tools, power tools

    Wheeltronic                     Hoists and lifts for vehicle service
                                    shops

    J. H. Williams (Williams)       Hand tools

    A. T. I. Tools (ATI)            Tools and equipment for aerospace and
                                    industrial applications

    Sioux Tools (Sioux)             Power tools

    Snap-on Medical Products        Tools for orthopedic applications

    Sun Electric (Sun)              Diagnostics and service equipment

    Balco                           Engine diagnostics and wheel balancers

    CAS                             Repair shop management systems, point of
                                    sale systems, diagnostics equipment

    John Bean                       Under-car and other service equipment

    Hofmann                         Wheel balancers, lifts, tire changers
                                    and aligners

    Brewco                          Frame straightening equipment, vehicle
                                    measuring systems, paint booths and
                                    other collision repair equipment

    Mitchell                        Repair and service information and shop
                                    management systems

    Edge Diagnostic Systems         Software to diagnose vehicle computer
                                    systems

    ShopKey                         Repair and service information and shop
                                    management software

    Equipment Solutions             Custom programs for vehicle
                                    manufacturers and their dealerships

    Equiserve                       Equipment repair services


   The Corporation's financing activities are conducted primarily through its
   Snap-on Credit Corporation ("Credit Corp") subsidiary.  The Credit Corp is
   responsible for certain credit and non-credit services used to support
   sales and to provide dealer financing options. Currently, the majority of
   its revenues are derived from the automotive service industry in North
   America. 

   Credit programs facilitate the sale of many of the Corporation's products
   and services.  Through a contractual arrangement, extended credit is
   offered to technicians to enable them to purchase tools and equipment that
   can be used to generate income while they pay for the products over time. 
   Financing, in a lease format, is also offered to shop owners, both
   independent and national chains, who purchase equipment items, which
   typically are higher price point products than tools.  The duration of
   lease contracts is often two to three times that of extended credit
   contracts.

   Credit Corp also makes available financing to new dealers, whereby a 10-
   year loan is originated to enable the dealer to fund the purchase of the
   franchise and the related working capital needs, particularly inventory
   and customer receivables.

   Market Sectors Served

   The Corporation markets and distributes its products and related services
   primarily to professional users around the world in two market sectors:
   the vehicle service and repair sector, and the industrial sector. 
   Additional information about the Corporation's international and domestic
   operations is provided in Note 13 on page 35 of the Corporation's 1997
   Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

   Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

   The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups:
   professional technicians, primarily in the vehicle service industry, who
   purchase tools and equipment for themselves; service and repair shop
   owners and managers - including independent shops, national chains and
   automotive dealerships - who purchase equipment for use by multiple
   technicians within a service or repair facility; and vehicle manufacturers
   (OEMs).

   The Corporation provides innovative tool and equipment solutions, as well
   as technical sales support and training, to meet technicians' evolving
   needs. Snap-on's dealer van distribution system offers technicians the
   convenience of purchasing quality tools with minimal disruption of their
   work routine. The Corporation also serves owners and managers of shops
   where technicians work with tools, diagnostics equipment, repair and
   service information, and shop management products. Snap-on provides
   vehicle manufacturers products and services including tools, facilitation
   services for the purchase and distribution of equipment, and consulting
   services.

   Major challenges for the Corporation and the vehicle service and repair
   industry include the increasing rate of technological change within motor
   vehicles, and the evolution in the conduct of business by both suppliers
   and customers that is necessitated by such change.

   Industrial Sector

   The Corporation markets its products to a wide variety of industrial
   customers, including industrial maintenance and repair facilities;
   manufacturing and assembly operations; industrial distributors; government
   facilities; schools; and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") who
   require instrumentation or service tools and equipment for their products.

   Major challenges in the industrial market include a highly competitive,
   cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making all of
   their tool purchases through one integrated supplier. The Corporation
   believes it is currently a meaningful participant in the market for
   industrial tools and equipment.

   Distribution Channels

   The Corporation serves customers primarily through three channels of
   distribution: dealer/tech reps, company direct sales, and distributors.  
   The following discussion represents the Corporation's general approach in
   each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

   Dealer/Tech Rep Organization

   In the United States, the majority of sales to the automotive repair
   industry are conducted through the Corporation's dealer/tech rep network;
   the market served by this network centers on professional technicians and
   shop owners. Snap-on's mobile dealer van system covers automotive
   technicians and independent shop owners, calling weekly at the customer's
   place of business. Dealers' sales are concentrated in hand and power tools
   and some small equipment, which can easily be transported in a van and
   demonstrated during a brief sales call, as well as in tool storage units.
   Dealers purchase the Corporation's products at a discount from suggested
   retail prices and resell them at prices of the dealer's choosing. Although
   some dealers have sales areas defined by other methods, most U.S. dealers
   are provided a list of places of business which serves as the basis of the
   dealer's sales route.

   The dealer sales force is supported by the Snap-on/Sun Tech Systems
   employee sales force ("Tech Specialists"), who work with dealers in the
   demonstration and sale of diagnostics equipment and also sell higher-end
   diagnostics and shop equipment on their own. Tech Specialists are
   compensated primarily on the basis of commission; dealers receive a
   commission for referring business to Tech Specialists. 
   Most products sold through the dealer/tech rep organization are sold under
   the Snap-on or Sun brand names.

   Since 1991, all new U.S. dealers, and a majority of existing U.S. dealers,
   have been enrolled as franchisees of the Corporation.  The Corporation
   currently charges initial and ongoing monthly license fees, which do not
   add materially to the Corporation's revenues. The Corporation makes it
   possible for prospective dealer candidates to work as employee sales
   representatives, at salary plus commission, for up to one year prior to
   making an investment in a franchise.  In addition, through Snap-on
   Financial Services, Inc. and its subsidiary, Snap-on Credit Corporation,
   the Corporation provides financial assistance for newly converted
   franchise dealers and other new franchise dealers, which could include
   financing for initial license fees, inventory, revolving accounts
   receivable acquisition, equipment, fixtures, other expenses and an initial
   checking account deposit.  At year end 1997, approximately 88 percent of
   all U.S. dealers were enrolled as franchisees.

   The Corporation services and supports its dealers with an extensive field
   organization of branch offices and service and distribution centers.  The
   Corporation also provides sales training, customer and dealer financial
   assistance, and marketing and product promotion programs to help maximize
   dealer sales. A National Dealer Advisory Council, composed of and elected
   by dealers, assists the Corporation in identifying and implementing
   enhancements to the franchise program.

   The Corporation has replicated its dealer van method of distribution in
   certain countries, including Australia, Canada, Germany, Mexico, the
   Netherlands, Japan and the United Kingdom. In these markets, as in the
   United States, purchase decisions are generally made by professional
   technicians. The Corporation markets products in certain other countries
   through its subsidiary, Snap-on Tools International, Ltd., which sells to
   foreign distributors under license or contract with the Corporation.

   Company Direct Sales

   In the United States, a growing proportion of sales of Snap-on and Sun
   equipment are made by a direct sales force that has responsibility for
   national accounts. As the automotive service and repair industry
   consolidates, with more business conducted by national chains, automotive
   dealerships and franchised service centers, these larger organizations can
   be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell
   the full line of products and services.  The Corporation also sells its
   products and services directly to vehicle manufacturers.

   Tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers
   and for the medical profession in the United States through industrial
   sales representatives, who are employees, and independent industrial
   distributors. The sales representatives focus on industrial customers
   whose main purchase criteria are quality and service, as well as on
   certain OEM accounts. At the end of 1997, the Corporation had industrial
   sales representatives in the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan,
   Mexico, Puerto Rico, and some European countries, with the United States
   representing the majority of the Corporation's total industrial sales.
   Tools and equipment for the U.S. industrial and government markets are
   sold through a direct sales force as well as through industrial
   distributors. In most markets outside the United States, industrial sales
   are conducted through distributors.

   Distributors

   Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through automotive and
   industrial distributors, who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell
   them to the end users. Products sold through distributors in North
   America, Europe and select other parts of the world include under-car and
   other service equipment. These products are sold under brands including
   John Bean, Hofmann, Irimo, Palmero and Acesa, and are differentiated from
   those sold through the dealer/tech rep and direct sales channels. Sun
   brand equipment is marketed through distributors in South America and
   Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe.

   Competition

   The Corporation competes on the basis of its product quality, service,
   brand awareness and technological innovation. While no one company
   competes with the Corporation across all of its product lines and
   distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product
   categories and/or distribution channels.

   The Corporation believes that it is a leading manufacturer and distributor
   of its products for the customers it serves in the vehicle service
   industry, and that it offers the broadest line of products to the vehicle
   service industry.  The major competitors selling to professional
   technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile
   van channel include MAC Tools (The Stanley Works) and Matco (Danaher
   Corporation).  The Corporation also competes with companies that sell
   through non-mobile-van distributors; these competitors include The Stanley
   Works, Sears, Roebuck and Co., and Strafor Facom.  In the industrial
   sector, major competitors include Armstrong (Danaher Corporation), Cooper
   Industries and Proto (The Stanley Works).  The major competitors selling
   diagnostics and shop equipment to shop owners in the vehicle service and
   repair sector include SPX Corporation and Hunter Engineering.

   Raw Material & Purchased Product

   The Corporation's supply of raw materials (various grades of steel bars
   and sheets) and purchased components are readily available from numerous
   suppliers.

   The majority of 1997 consolidated net sales consisted of products
   manufactured by the Corporation.  The remainder was purchased from outside
   suppliers.  No single supplier's products accounted for a material portion
   of 1997 consolidated net sales.

   Patents and Trademarks

   The Corporation vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to
   protect its inventions and its position in the market. As of January 3,
   1998, the Corporation and its subsidiaries held over 721 patents
   worldwide, with more than 466 pending patent applications.  No sales
   relating to any single patent represent a material portion of the
   Corporation's revenues.

   Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from
   patent protection include engine analyzers, serrated jaw open-end
   wrenches, wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, sealed ratchets,
   electronic torque wrenches, ratcheting screwdrivers, emissions sensing
   devices and air conditioning equipment.

   Much of the technology used in the manufacturing of automotive tools and
   equipment is in the public domain.  The Corporation relies primarily on
   trade secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in
   manufacturing.  Methods and processes are patented when appropriate.

   Trademarks used by the Corporation are of continuing importance to the
   Corporation in the marketplace.  Trademarks have been registered in the
   United States and 72 other countries, and additional applications for
   trademark registrations are pending.  The Corporation rigorously polices
   proper use of its trademarks.

   The Corporation's right to manufacture and sell certain products is
   dependent upon licenses from others. These products do not represent a
   material portion of the Corporation's sales. 

   Working Capital

   Because most of the Corporation's business is not seasonal, and its
   inventory needs are relatively constant, no unusual working capital needs
   arise during the year.

   The Corporation's use of working capital to extend credit to its dealers
   and to purchase installment credit receivables from dealers is discussed
   in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
   Financial Condition," which is found on pages 16 to 20 of the
   Corporation's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

   The Corporation does not depend on any single customer, small group of
   customers or government for any material part of its sales, and has no
   significant backlog of orders.

   Environment

   The Corporation complies with applicable environmental control
   requirements in its operations. Compliance has not had a material effect
   upon the Corporation's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
   position.

   Employees

   At the end of 1997, the Corporation employed approximately 11,700 people,
   of whom approximately 40 percent are engaged in manufacturing activities.

   Item 2: Description of Properties

   The Corporation maintains both leased and owned manufacturing, warehouse,
   distribution and office facilities throughout the world. The Corporation
   believes that its facilities are well maintained and have a capacity
   adequate to meet the Corporation's present and foreseeable future demand. 
   The Corporation's U.S. facilities occupy approximately 4.5 million square
   feet, of which approximately 78 percent is owned.  The Corporation's
   facilities outside the U.S. contain approximately 1.9 million square feet,
   of which approximately 70 percent is owned.

   The Corporation's principal manufacturing locations and distribution
   centers are as follows:

   Location                          Type of property          Owned/Leased

   Conway, Arkansas                  Manufacturing                  Owned
   City of Industry, California      Manufacturing                  Leased
   Escondido, California             Manufacturing                  Owned
   San Jose, California              Manufacturing                  Leased
   Sunnyvale, California             Manufacturing                  Leased

   Columbus, Georgia                 Manufacturing                  Owned
   Crystal Lake, Illinois            Distribution and
                                      manufacturing                 Owned
   Mt. Carmel, Illinois              Manufacturing                  Owned
   Ottawa, Illinois                  Distribution                   Owned
   Algona, Iowa                      Manufacturing                  Owned
   Sioux City, Iowa                  Manufacturing                  Owned 

   Central City, Kentucky            Manufacturing                  Leased
   Natick, Massachusetts             Manufacturing                  Owned
   Olive Branch, Mississippi         Distribution                   Leased
                                                                    and owned
   Carson City, Nevada               Distribution                   Leased
                                                                    and owned
   Robesonia, Pennsylvania           Distribution                   Owned
   Johnson City, Tennessee           Manufacturing                  Owned

   Elizabethton, Tennessee           Manufacturing                  Owned
   East Troy, Wisconsin              Manufacturing                  Owned
   Elkhorn, Wisconsin                Manufacturing                  Owned
   Kenosha, Wisconsin                Manufacturing                  Owned
   Milwaukee, Wisconsin              Manufacturing                  Owned
   Sydney, Australia                 Distribution                   Leased

   Barbara D'oeste, Brazil           Manufacturing                  Owned
   Calgary, Canada                   Distribution                   Leased
   Mississagua, Canada               Manufacturing                  Leased
   Newmarket, Canada                 Distribution and
                                      manufacturing                 Owned
   Kettering, England                Distribution                   Owned
   King's Lynn, England              Distribution and
                                      manufacturing                 Owned

   Altmittweida, Germany             Distribution                   Owned
   Pfungstadt, Germany               Manufacturing                  Leased
   Sopron, Hungary                   Manufacturing                  Owned
   Cork, Ireland                     Manufacturing                  Leased
   Shannon, Ireland                  Manufacturing                  Leased
   Tokyo, Japan                      Distribution                   Leased

   Amsterdam, the Netherlands        Distribution                   Owned
   Irun, Spain                       Manufacturing                  Owned
   Soria, Spain                      Manufacturing                  Owned
   Urretxu, Spain                    Manufacturing                  Owned
   Vitoria, Spain                    Distribution and
                                      manufacturing                 Owned


   Item 3: Legal Proceedings

   The Corporation intervened in litigation commenced by Tejas Testing
   Technology One, L.C. and Tejas Testing Technology Two, L.C. (the "Tejas
   Companies"), as described in Note 12 to the Financial Statements of the
   Corporation on pages 34 and 35 of its 1997 Annual Report, which is
   incorporated herein by reference.

   Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   There was no matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders during the
   fourth quarter of the fiscal year ending January 3, 1998.

   Item 4.1:  Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The executive officers of the Corporation, their ages as of January 3,
   1998, and their current titles and positions held during the last five
   years are listed below.

   Robert A. Cornog  (57) - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
   since July 1991.  A Director since 1982.

   Branko M. Beronja (63) - Senior Vice President - Diagnostics since
   February 1998. Senior Vice President - Diagnostics, North America from
   April 1996 to February 1998.  President - North American Operations from
   April 1994 to April 1996, and Vice President - Sales, North America from
   August 1989 to April 1994.  A Director since January 1997.

   Frederick D. Hay (53) - Senior Vice President - Transportation since
   February 1996.  Prior to joining Snap-on, he was President of the Interior
   Systems and Components Division of UT Automotive, a business unit of
   United Technologies Corporation, from December 1989 to January 1996.

   Donald S. Huml (51) - Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial
   Officer since August 1994.  Prior to joining Snap-on, he was Vice
   President and Chief Financial Officer of Saint-Gobain Corporation from
   December 1990 to August 1994.

   Michael F. Montemurro (49) - Senior Vice President - Financial Services
   and Administration since August 1994.  Senior Vice President - Financial
   Services, Administration and Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 to
   August 1994.  Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer
   from March 1990 to April 1994.

   Jay H. Schnabel (55) - Senior Vice President - Europe since April 1996. 
   Senior Vice President - Diagnostics from April 1994 to April 1996.  Senior
   Vice President - Administration from April 1990 to April 1994. A Director
   since August 1989.

   Neil T. Smith (43) - Controller since November 1997.  Financial Controller
   from June 1997 to November 1997. Director of Financial Analysis and
   Planning from December 1994 to May 1997.  Prior to joining Snap-on, he was
   Director of Finance for the Nielsen Marketing Research Division of Dun and
   Bradstreet Corporation from January 1991 to December 1994.

   Susan F. Marrinan  (49) - Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
   since January 1992.

   There is no family relationship among the executive officers and there has
   been no involvement in legal proceedings during the past five years that
   would be material to the evaluation of the ability or integrity of any of
   the executive officers. Executive officers may be elected by the Board of
   Directors or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer at the regular
   meeting of the Board which follows the Annual Shareholders' Meeting, held
   on the fourth Friday of April each year, and at such other times as new
   positions are created or vacancies must be filled.

   PART II

   Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
   Matters

   At January 3, 1998, the Corporation had 60,515,814 shares of common stock
   outstanding.

   On June 27, 1997, the Corporation's board of directors authorized the
   repurchase of $100 million of the Corporation's common stock over a two-
   year period.  At the end of 1997, substantially all of the authorization
   remained available.  In 1996, the Corporation's board of directors
   approved an ongoing authorization to repurchase stock in an amount
   equivalent to that necessary to prevent dilution created by shares issued
   for stock options, employee and dealer stock purchase plans, and other
   corporate purposes.  In 1997, the Corporation repurchased 986,333 shares
   of its common stock at an average price of $42.91.

   Additional information required by Item 5 is contained on pages 37 and 41
   of the Corporation's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by
   reference to said Annual Report.

   Item 6: Selected Financial Data

   The information required by Item 6 is contained on pages 36 and 37 of the
   Corporation's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
   Results of Operations

   The information required by Item 7 is contained on pages 16 to 20 of the
   Corporation's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The information required by Item 8 is contained on pages 21 to 35 of the
   Corporation's 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference
   to said Annual Report.

   Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
   Financial Disclosure

   None.

   PART III

   Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The identification of the Corporation's directors as required by Item 10
   is contained in the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1998,
   and is incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.  With
   respect to information about the Corporation's executive officers, see
   caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of
   this report.

   The disclosure of late filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
   contained on page 19 of the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 13,
   1998, and is incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 11: Executive Compensation

   The information required by Item 11 is contained on pages 10 to 18 of the
   Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1998, and is incorporated
   herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The information required by Item 12 is contained on pages 8 to 9 of the
   Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1998, and is incorporated
   herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.

   Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   None.

   PART IV

   Item 14: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K 

   Item 14(A):  Document List

   1.  List of Financial Statements

   The following consolidated financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated,
   and the Auditors' Report thereon, each included in the 1997 Annual Report
   of the Corporation to its shareholders for the year ended January 3, 1998,
   are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996.

   Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended January 3, 1998,
      December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995. 

   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
      January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995.

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 3, 1998,
      December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995.

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   2.  Financial Statement Schedule

   The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Snap-on
   Incorporated is included in Item 14(d) as a separate section of this
   report.

   Schedule II     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves     Page 17

   All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
   accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
   inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted, or are included in the
   Corporation's 1997 Annual Report in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
   Statements for the years ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996 and
   December 30, 1995, which are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this
   report.


   3.  List of Exhibits

   The exhibits filed with or incorporated by reference in this report are as
   specified in the exhibit index.             Page 16


   Item 14(B):  Reports on Form 8-K

   No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
   covered by this report.

   Subsequent to year-end, the Corporation reported on Form 8-K dated
   February 17, 1998 that the Corporation and Tejas Testing Technologies have
   completed an agreement, approved by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Austin,
   Texas, that will fully satisfy the Corporation's liability related to a
   loan guaranty by the Corporation of certain Tejas lease obligations.

   Subsequent to year-end, the Corporation reported on Form 8-K dated March
   17, 1998 those portions of its fiscal 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders
   that the Corporation has incorporated by reference herein.


   

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


   We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the financial statements included in Snap-on Incorporated's (the
   "Corporation") Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference in
   this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated January 27, 1998. 
   Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
   statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed on page 18 is the
   responsibility of the Corporation's management and is presented for
   purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
   and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This schedule has been
   subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
   financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material
   respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation
   to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                      /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                      ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   Chicago, Illinois
   January 27, 1998



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


   As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
   of our reports included (or incorporated by reference) in this Form 10-K,
   into the Corporation's previously filed Registration Statement File Nos.
   2-53663, 2-53578, 33-7471, 33-22417, 33-37924, 33-39660, 33-57898, 33-
   55607, 33-58939, 33-58943, 333-14769, 333-21277, 333-21285 and 333-41359.


                                      /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                      ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   Chicago, Illinois
   March 27, 1998

   

                                   SIGNATURES


   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the Corporation has duly caused this report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED    

   By:   /s/ R. A. Cornog                            Date: March 27, 1998
         R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board
         of Directors, President and Chief 
         Executive Officer


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
   Corporation and in the capacities as indicated.



      /s/ R. A. Cornog                               Date: March 27, 1998
      R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board
      of Directors, President and Chief 
      Executive Officer



      /s/ D. S. Huml                                 Date: March 27, 1998
      D. S. Huml, Principal Financial Officer,
      and Senior Vice President - Finance



      /s/ N. T. Smith                                Date: March 27, 1998
      N. T. Smith, Principal Accounting Officer,
      and Controller


   

                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
   Corporation and in the capacities as indicated.


   By:   /s/ B. M. Beronja                           Date: March 27, 1998
         B. M. Beronja, Director



   By:   /s/ D. W. Brinckman                         Date: March 27, 1998
         D. W. Brinckman, Director



   By:   /s/ B. S. Chelberg                          Date: March 27, 1998
         B. S. Chelberg, Director



   By:   /s/ R. J. Decyk                             Date: March 27, 1998
         R. J. Decyk, Director



   By:   /s/ R. F. Farley                            Date: March 27, 1998
         R. F. Farley, Director



   By:    /s/ L. A. Hadley                           Date: March 27, 1998
         L. A. Hadley, Director



   By:   /s/ A. L. Kelly                             Date: March 27, 1998
         A. L. Kelly, Director



   By:   /s/ G. W. Mead                              Date: March 27, 1998
         G. W. Mead, Director



   By:   /s/ E. H. Rensi                             Date: March 27, 1998
         E. H. Rensi, Director



   By:   /s/ J. H. Schnabel                          Date: March 27, 1998
         J. H. Schnabel, Director



   By:   /s/ R. F. Teerlink                          Date: March 27, 1998
         R. F. Teerlink, Director

   

   


   

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
   Item 14(c):  Exhibits

      (3)   (a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation as
                amended through April 25, 1997

            (b) Bylaws of the Corporation, effective as of January 26, 1996
                (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(b) to the
                Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended December 30, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))

      (4)   (a) Rights Agreement between the Corporation and First Chicago
                Trust Company of New York, effective as of August 22, 1997
                (incorporated by reference to the Corporation's Form 8-A12B
                dated October 17, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-7724))

            The Corporation and its subsidiaries have no long-term debt
            agreement for which the related outstanding debt exceeds 10%
            of consolidated total assets as of January 3, 1998.  Copies of
            debt instruments for which the related debt is less than 10%
            of consolidated total assets will be furnished to the
            Commission upon request.                  

      (10)  Material Contracts 

            (a) Amended and Restated Snap-on Incorporated 1986 Incentive
                Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                (10)(a) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996 (Commission
                File No. 1-7724))*

            (b) Form of Restated Senior Officer Agreement between the
                Corporation and each of Robert A. Cornog, Branko M. Beronja,
                Frederick D. Hay, Donald S. Huml, Michael F. Montemurro and
                Jay H. Schnabel (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                (10)(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No.
                1-7724))*

            (c) Form of Restated Executive Agreement between the Corporation
                and each of Richard V. Caskey, Dan G. Craighead, Dale F.
                Elliott, Gregory D. Johnson, Nicholas L. Loffredo, Denis J.
                Loverine, Susan F. Marrinan, Lynn L. McHugh, Neil T. Smith
                and William R. Whyte (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                (10)(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No.
                1-7724))*

            (d) Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Corporation
                and each of the Directors, Frederick D. Hay,  Donald S.
                Huml, Susan F. Marrinan and Michael F. Montemurro effective
                October 24, 1997*

            (e) Amended and Restated Snap-on Incorporated Directors' 1993
                Fee Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(e) to
                the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 28, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

            (f) Snap-on Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan
                (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(f) to the
                Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended December 28, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

            (g) Snap-on Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan for
                Officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to
                the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 30, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-7724))*

      (12)  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

      (13)  Annual Report to Shareholders (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 99 to the Corporations Current Report on Form 8-K date
            March 17, 1998 (Commission File No. 1-7724))

      (21)  Subsidiaries of the Corporation

      (23)  Consent of Independent Public Accountants (included in Report of
            Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule) 

    (27.1)  Restated Fiscal 1995 Financial Data Schedule.

    (27.2)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the first quarter of 1996.

    (27.3)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the second quarter of 1996.

    (27.4)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the third quarter of 1996.

    (27.5)  Restated Fiscal 1996 Financial Data Schedule.

    (27.6)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the first quarter of 1997.

    (27.7)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the second quarter of 1997.

    (27.8)  Restated Financial Data Schedule for the third quarter of 1997.

    (27.9)  Fiscal 1997 Financial Data Schedule.

      * Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement


