10-K


a09-1236_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 3,
2009, or

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-7724

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(262) 656-5200

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act

:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which
  registered

Common stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in a
definitive proxy or information statement incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller
reporting company

o

Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).  Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common
equity held by non-affiliates  (excludes
224,533 shares held by directors and executive officers) computed by reference
to the price ($51.74) at which common equity was last sold as of the last
business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
(June 28, 2008) was: $3.0 billion

The number of shares of Common Stock ($1.00 par value) of the registrant
outstanding as of February 13, 2009, was 57,460,513 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
incorporates by reference certain information that will be set forth in Snap-on’s
Proxy Statement, which is expected to first be mailed to shareholders on or
around March 11, 2009, prepared for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
scheduled for April 23, 2009.



SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

PART I

Safe Harbor

Statements in this document that are not historical
facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include
the words “expects,” “plans,” “targets,” “estimates,” “believes,” “anticipates,”
or similar words that reference Snap-on Incorporated (“Snap-on” or “the company”)
or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking;
or (iv) describe Snap-on’s or management’s future outlook, plans,
estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Snap-on cautions the reader that any
forward-looking statements included in this document that are based upon
assumptions and estimates were developed by management in good faith and are
subject to risks, uncertainties or other factors that could cause (and in some
cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in
any such statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be
relied upon as a prediction of actual results or regarded as a representation
by the company or its management that the projected results will be achieved.
For those forward-looking statements, Snap-on cautions the reader that numerous
important factors, such as those listed below, as well as those factors
discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those in “Item
1A: Risk Factors,” could affect the company’s actual results and could cause
its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in
any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on.

These
risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to
estimates, statements, assumptions and projections generally, and the timing
and progress with which Snap-on can attain efficiencies and savings from its
Rapid Continuous Improvement (“RCI”) and other cost reduction initiatives,
including its ability to implement reductions in workforce, achieve
improvements in the company’s manufacturing footprint and greater efficiencies
in its supply chain, and enhance machine maintenance, plant productivity and
manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, any or all of which could
result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and lost revenues.  These risks also include uncertainties
related to Snap-on’s capability to implement future strategies with respect to
its existing businesses, its ability to refine its brand and franchise
strategies, retain and attract franchisees, further enhance service and value
to franchisees and thereby enhance their sales and profitability, introduce
successful new products, successfully integrate acquisitions, as well as its
ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, planned
facility closures or other labor interruptions, litigation challenges and
external negative factors including significant changes in the current
competitive environment, inflation, disruptions and instability in the credit
and financial markets, weakness in the global economy, changes in interest
rates and other monetary and market fluctuations, including changes in foreign
currency exchange rates; and the impact of legal proceedings, energy and raw
material supply and pricing, including steel and gasoline, the amount, rate and
growth of Snap-on’s general and administrative expenses, including health care
and postretirement costs, the impacts of non-strategic business and/or product
line rationalizations, and terrorist disruptions on business.  Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to
update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as
required by law.

In addition, investors should be aware that generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”)
prescribe when a company should reserve for particular risks, including
litigation exposures.  Accordingly,
results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and
when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results,
therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Item 1

: Business

Snap-on was
incorporated under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and
reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1930.  Snap-on is a leading global innovator,
manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and
service solutions for professional users. 
Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage,
diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and
other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as
customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural
resources.  Snap-on also derives income
from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products.

Snap-on
markets its products and brands through multiple distribution sales channels in
approximately 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the
United States, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.  Snap-on also reaches its customers through
the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and Internet
channels.  Snap-on originated the mobile
van tool distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

Snap-on’s
business segments are based on the organization structure used by management
for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing
performance.  Snap-on’s reportable
business segments include: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group;
(ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Diagnostics &
Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services.  The Commercial & Industrial Group
consists of the business operations providing tools and equipment products and
equipment repair services to a broad range of industrial and commercial
customers worldwide through direct, distributor and other non-franchise
distribution channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of the business
operations serving the worldwide franchise van channel.  The Diagnostics & Information Group
consists of the business operations providing diagnostics equipment, vehicle
service information, business management systems, electronic parts catalogs,
and other solutions for vehicle service to customers in the worldwide vehicle
service and repair marketplace. 
Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit
LLC (“SOC”), a consolidated, 50%-owned joint venture between Snap-on and The
CIT Group, Inc. (“CIT”), and Snap-on’s wholly owned finance subsidiaries
in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations.  See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of
its reportable segments based on segment revenues and operating earnings.  For the Commercial & Industrial,
Snap-on Tools, and Diagnostics & Information Groups, segment net sales
include both external and intersegment net sales.  Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and
transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups
established between the segments. 
Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective
reportable segment’s operations. 
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income
taxes, pension assets and certain other assets.

Intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at
consolidated financial results.

On March 5,
2008, Snap-on acquired a 60% interest in Zhejiang Wanda Tools Co., Ltd. (“Wanda
Snap-on”), a tool manufacturer in China, for a cash purchase price of $15.4
million (or $14.1 million, net of cash acquired), including $1.2 million of
transaction costs.  The acquisition of
Wanda Snap-on is part of the company’s ongoing strategic initiatives to further
expand its manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost
regions.  For segment reporting purposes,
Wanda Snap-on is included in the Commercial & Industrial Group.  See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on the company’s acquisition of  Wanda Snap-on.

On November 28,
2006, Snap-on acquired the ProQuest Business Solutions business and certain net
assets (collectively, “Snap-on Business Solutions” or “Business Solutions”)
from ProQuest Company for a purchase price of $521.7 million of cash and the
assumption of approximately $19 million of debt.

For segment reporting purposes, Snap-on
Business Solutions is included in the Diagnostics & Information
Group.  See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information on the company’s acquisition of Business
Solutions.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Information Available on the Company’s
Web Site

Additional
information regarding Snap-on and its products is available on the company’s
Web site at

www.snapon.com

. 
Snap-on is not including the information contained on its Web site as a
part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Snap-on’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are made
available to the public at no charge, other than an investor’s own Internet
access charges, through the Investor Information section of the company’s Web
site at

www.snapon.com/investor

. 
Snap-on makes such material available on its Web site as soon as
reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Copies of any materials the company files
with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s Web site at

www.sec.gov

.  The SEC’s Public Reference Room can be
contacted at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling
1-800-732-0330.  In addition, the company’s
(i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and
Organization and Executive Compensation committees of the company’s Board of
Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics are available on Snap-on’s Web site.  Snap-on will also post any amendments to
these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or
executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on
the company’s Web site at

www.snapon.com

.  These documents are also available in print
upon written request directed to the Corporate Secretary, 2801 80

th

Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin 53143.

Products and Services

Snap-on offers a broad line of
products and complementary services that are grouped into three product
categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics
and repair information; and (iii) equipment.  Further product line information is not
presented as it is not practicable to do so. 
The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these
product categories for the last three years:

The

tools

product category

includes
hand tools, power tools and tool storage products.  Hand tools include wrenches, screwdrivers,
sockets, pliers, ratchets, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque
measuring instruments and other similar products.  Power tools include pneumatic (air),
hydraulic, cordless (battery) and corded (electric) tools such as impact
wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and similar
products.  Tool storage includes tool
chests, roll cabinets, tool control systems and other similar products.  The majority of products are manufactured by
Snap-on and, in completing the product line, other items are purchased from
external manufacturers.

The

diagnostics and repair information

product category includes
handheld and PC-based diagnostics products, service and repair information
products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business
management systems, business services, point-of-sale systems, integrated
systems for vehicle service shops, equipment repair services, original
equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) purchasing facilitation services, and warranty
management systems and analytics to help dealerships manage and track
performance.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


The products
offered by Snap-on Business Solutions, which was acquired by the company on November 28,
2006, are included in the

diagnostics and repair
information

product category. 
Snap-on Business Solutions is a world leader in automotive parts and
service information.  Its products are
aimed at assisting OEMs and their dealers to enhance their service operations.  Business Solutions’ products include
integrated software, services and systems that transform complex technical data
for parts catalogs into easily accessed electronic information (electronic
parts catalogs). Other products and services include warranty management
systems and analytics to help dealerships manage and track the complex process
of warranty claims management.  Over
38,000 automotive dealerships around the world use Business Solutions’
electronic parts catalogs, which are available in 29 different languages and
support 15 automotive manufacturers and 31 brands.  Business Solutions’ products are also sold to
over 85,000 dealers in the power equipment and power sports markets.

Snap-on
supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by
offering training programs as well as after sales support for its customers,
primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products
developed and marketed by Snap-on.

The

equipment

product category includes solutions for the
diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial equipment. Products include
wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test
lane systems, collision repair equipment, air conditioning service equipment,
brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting
equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

Products are
marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well
known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served.  Some of the major

trade
names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are
associated include the following:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

In addition
to its sales of tool, diagnostic, service and equipment solutions, Snap-on also
generates revenue from various financing activities that include (i) loans
to franchisees; (ii) loans to the franchisees’ customers; and (iii) loans
to Snap-on’s industrial and other customers for the purchase of tools,
equipment and diagnostics products on an extended-term payment plan.

Franchise
fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees
(primarily for sales and business training and marketing and product promotion
programs), is recognized as the fees are earned.

Sales and Distribution

Snap-on
markets and distributes its products and related services principally to
professional

tool and equipment users
around the world.  The two largest market
sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

Vehicle Service and Repair Sector

The vehicle
service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional
technicians who purchase tools and equipment for themselves; (ii) vehicle
service and repair shop owners and managers

-

including independent shops,
national chains and automotive dealerships

-

who purchase tools, equipment and
diagnostics products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair
facility; and (iii) OEMs.

Snap-on provides
innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales
support and training, to meet technicians’ evolving needs.  Snap-on’s franchise van distribution system
offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools with minimal
disruption of their work routine. 
Snap-on also provides owners and managers of shops, where technicians
work, with tools, diagnostics equipment, repair and service information,
including electronic parts catalogs, and shop management products.  Through its Equipment Solutions (“OEM
facilitation”) business, Snap-on provides OEMs with products and services
including tools, consulting and facilitation services.  Snap-on’s facilitation services include
product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for
their dealership equipment programs.

Major challenges
for Snap-on and the vehicle service and repair sector include the increasing
rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth,
vehicle life and the resulting impact on the businesses of both our suppliers
and customers that is necessitated by such change.  Snap-on believes it is a meaningful
participant in the market sector for vehicle service and repair.

Industrial Sector

Snap-on
markets its products globally to a broad cross-section of industrial and
commercial customers including 
maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly
facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including
military operations; vocational and technical schools; aerospace and aviation;
OEM and repair customers; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and
power generation equipment fabricators; agriculture; infrastructure
construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation,
service tools and/or equipment for their products.

The industrial
sector for Snap-on has achieved growth in recent years by providing value-added
products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers,
particularly those in the market segments of natural resources, power
generation, aerospace, government and education.  Through its experienced and dispersed sales
organization, industrial “solutioneers” strive to develop unique and highly
valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide that leverage Snap-on’s
product, service and development capabilities.

Major
challenges in the industrial sector include a highly competitive,
cost-conscious environment, and a trend toward customers making many of their
tool and equipment purchases through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes
it is a meaningful participant in the market sector for industrial tools and
equipment.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Distribution Channels

Snap-on
serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: the
mobile van channel, company direct sales, distributors and e-commerce.  The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s
general approach for each channel, and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

Mobile Van Channel

In the United States, the majority
of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector are conducted through Snap-on’s
worldwide franchise van channel.  Snap-on’s
franchisees primarily serve vehicle service technicians and vehicle service
shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of
business.  Franchisees’ sales are
concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, small diagnostic
and shop equipment, and diagnostics and repair information products, which can
easily be transported in a van and demonstrated during a brief sales call. Franchisees
purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell
them at prices established by the franchisee. 
U.S. franchisees are provided a list of places of business that serves
as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route.

Snap-on also
offers an option termed the “Gateway Program” to potential U.S.
franchisees that do not meet the franchise qualification
requirements.  Gateway Program participants have less upfront investment
and are provided an initial base level of consigned inventory from Snap-on
to assist them in gaining experience and building
equity toward the future purchase of a standard franchise.  Snap-on also provides certain franchisees the
opportunity to add vans to their franchise or to add a limited number of
additional franchises.  Snap-on charges
nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees.  Since 1991, new U.S. franchisees, and a
majority of the pre-1991 U.S. franchisees, have been enrolled as franchisees of
Snap-on.  At 2008 year end, 3,231 U.S.
franchisees (approximately 96%) were enrolled as franchisees, or employed by
franchisees, as compared with 3,269 U.S. franchisees (approximately 96%) at
year-end 2007.

Snap-on has
replicated its U.S. franchise van distribution model in certain other countries
including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa and
the United Kingdom.  In many of these
markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or
influenced by professional vehicle service technicians and shop owners.

Through SOC,
financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van and
truck leases, working capital loans, and loans to enable new franchisees to
fund the purchase of the franchise. 
Internationally, Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and
customer networks through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries.  While Snap-on offers financing to qualified
franchisees and their customers through SOC and its wholly owned international
finance subsidiaries, the decision to finance through Snap-on or another
financing entity is solely at the election of the customer.

Snap-on
supports its franchisees with a field organization of regional offices,
franchise performance teams, Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), customer
care centers and distribution centers. 
Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and
product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing
programs through SOC and its wholly owned international finance subsidiaries,
all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales.  In the United States and Canada, the National
Franchise Advisory Council and the Snap-on Tools Canadian Franchise Advisory
Council, both of which are composed of franchisees that are elected by
franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the
franchise program.

In the United States, franchisees work closely with
the DSDs.  The DSD specialists
demonstrate and sell higher-price-point diagnostics and vehicle service shop
management information systems.  DSDs
work independently and with franchisees to identify and generate sales leads
among vehicle service shop owners and managers. 
DSDs are Snap-on employees who, beginning in 2008, are compensated
through a combination of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a
brokerage fee from certain sales made by the DSDs to the franchisee’s
customers.  Most products sold through
franchisees and the DSDs are sold under the

Snap-on

,

Blue-Point

and

Sun

brand
names.

In late
2007 Snap-on started transitioning its former sales representative
program in the United States into a new company-owned van program.  This
program is designed to provide another pool of potential franchisees, service
customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by
franchisees, and allow Snap-on to pilot new sales and promotional
ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees.  As
of fiscal 2008 year end, company-owned vans comprised less than 3% of
the total U.S. van population; Snap-on may elect to increase the number of
company-owned vans in the future.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Company Direct Sales

In the
United States, a significant proportion of shop equipment sales under the

Sun, John Bean and Blackhawk

brands

and
information products under the

Mitchell1

brand

are made by a direct sales force that
has responsibility for national and other accounts.  As the vehicle service and repair sector
consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains, automotive
dealerships and franchised service centers), the company believes these larger
organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can
demonstrate and sell the full line of equipment and diagnostic products and
services.  Snap-on also sells these
products and services directly to OEMs.

Snap-on

brand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental
customers in the United States through both industrial sales representatives,
who are employees, and independent industrial distributors.  In most markets outside the United States,
industrial sales are conducted through independent distributors.  The sales representatives focus on industrial
customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and service.  At the end of 2008, Snap-on had industrial
sales representatives in the United States, Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico,
Puerto Rico and some European, Asian, Latin American and Middle Eastern
countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total
industrial sales.

Business Solutions
sells automotive, power equipment and power sports software
solutions, both domestically and internationally, through an internal sales
force.  Products and services are
marketed to two targeted groups: OEMs and individual dealerships.  To effectively reach the large OEMs in
the automotive segment, such as General Motors Corporation, Daimler AG,
Ford Motor Company, Chrysler LLC, and Toyota Motor Corporation, Business Solutions
has deployed a team of business development professionals in the world’s
principal automotive centers in the United States, the United
Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Japan.  In the United
States and Canada, automotive products and services are sold directly to
individual dealerships using an experienced sales force.  In reaching
customers such as John Deere (Deere & Company), JC Bamford Excavators
Ltd. (JCB) and Yamaha Corporation of America (Yamaha) in the power equipment
and power sports segments, teams are also positioned to support the 90+
brands that Business Solutions distributes to globally.  Business management solutions are sold
directly to the automotive OEMs in the United States and throughout Europe,
including the United Kingdom.

Distributors

Sales of
certain tools and equipment are made through independent vehicle service and
industrial distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to
end users.  Hand tools under the

Bahco

and

Fish and Hook

brands
and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe, North
and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world.  Wheel service and other vehicle service
equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including

Hofmann,

John Bean, Cartec

and

Blackhawk

.

Sun

-branded
equipment is marketed through distributors in South America and Asia

,

and through both a direct sales
force and distributors in Europe.

E-commerce

Snap-on’s
e-commerce development initiatives allow Snap-on to combine the capabilities of
the Internet with Snap-on’s existing brand sales and distribution strengths to
reach new and under-served customer segments. 
Snap-on offers current and prospective customers online,
around-the-clock access to purchase products through its public Internet Web
site at

www.snapon.com

.  The site
features an online catalog containing nearly 14,000 products, including

Snap-on

hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and
diagnostic equipment available to consumers and professionals in the United
States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.

At the end of 2008, Snap-on had
more than 500,000 registered users, including approximately 39,000 industrial
accounts.  E-commerce and certain other
system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further
leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current
and prospective customers.  Through
business-to-business and business-to-consumer capabilities, Snap-on and its
franchisees are enhancing communications with customers on a real-time,
24-hour, 7-day a week basis.

Competition

Snap-on
competes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line
breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, and technological
innovation.  While no single company
competes with Snap-on across all of its product lines and distribution
channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or
distribution channels.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Snap-on believes it is a leading
manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, diagnostics, equipment,
repair software and solutions, offering the broadest line of these products to
the vehicle service industry.  The major
competitors selling to professional technicians in the automotive service and
repair sector through the mobile van channel include MAC Tools (The Stanley
Works), Matco (Danaher Corporation), and Cornwell.  Snap-on also competes with companies that
sell tools and equipment to automotive technicians through non-mobile van
distributors including Craftsman (Sears Brands LLC), RIDGID and Husky (The Home
Depot, Inc.), and Kobalt (Lowes Companies, Inc.), auto parts supply
outlets (such as NAPA, AutoZone, Inc. and Pep Boys), and tool supply
warehouses/distributorships (such as MEDCO and Integrated Supply Network, Inc.
(ISN)).  Within the power tools category,
Snap-on’s major competitors include Ingersoll-Rand Co. Limited, The Black &
Decker Corporation, Makita Corporation, Chicago Pneumatic (Atlas Copco), and
Milwaukee Electric (Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.).  In the industrial sector, major competitors
include Facom Tools and Proto (The Stanley Works), Armstrong (Danaher
Corporation), IRWIN (Newell Rubbermaid Inc.), Cooper Industries, Ltd., and
Westward (W.W. Grainger, Inc.).  The
major competitors selling diagnostics and shop equipment and information to
automotive dealerships, independent repair shop owners and managers in the
vehicle service and repair sector include Corghi S.p.A., Fluke and Hennessy
(Danaher Corporation), Robinair and OTC (SPX Corporation), Hunter Engineering,
Rotary Lift and Chief Automotive (Dover Corporation), Car-O-Liner AB, Lexcom
GmbH, Infomedia Ltd., Enigma, ALLDATA (AutoZone, Inc.), and the proprietary
electronic parts catalog, diagnostic and information systems of OEMs.

Raw Materials and Purchased Product

Snap-on’s
supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily
available from numerous suppliers. 
During 2007 and 2008, Snap-on experienced higher pricing related to
certain grades and alloys of steel. 
Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil
steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material
demands.  The company does not anticipate
experiencing any significant steel pricing or availability issues in 2009.

Patents, Trademarks and Other
Intellectual Property

Snap-on
vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual
property and its position in its markets. As of January 3, 2009, Snap-on
and its subsidiaries held over 860 active and pending patents in the United
States and over 1,660 active and pending patents outside of the United
States.  Sales relating to any single
patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in the last
three years.

Examples of
products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection
include wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, lifts, test
lanes, sealed ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers,
emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

Much of the
technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in
the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection to
protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing.  Methods and processes are patented when
appropriate.  Copyright protection is
also utilized when appropriate.

Trademarks
used by Snap-on are of continuing importance to Snap-on in the marketplace.  Trademarks have been registered in the United
States and more than 100 other countries, and additional applications for
trademark registrations are pending. 
Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.  Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell
certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these
products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net
sales.

Domain names
have become a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world,
including Snap-on.  Domain names often
contain a trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often
considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the

Snap-on

name, trademark, and domain name are core strengths
of the company.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Snap-on is
selectively and strategically licensing the

Snap-on

brand
to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such
as apparel, work boots, lighting and a variety of other goods, in order to
further build equity and market presence for the company’s strongest
brand.

Environment

Snap-on is subject to various environmental laws,
ordinances, regulations, and other requirements of government authorities in
the United States and other nations.  At
Snap-on, these environmental liabilities are managed through the Snap-on
Environmental, Hygiene and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”),
which is applied worldwide.  The system
is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2004 and
OHSAS 18001:1999, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

Snap-on
believes that it complies with applicable environmental control requirements in
its operations.  Expenditures on
environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does
not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon
Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Employees

At the end
of January 2009, Snap-on employed approximately 11,500 people compared to
approximately 11,600 people at the end of January 2008.  The year-over-year decrease reflects the
impacts of restructuring-related and management realignment actions at various
Snap-on facilities, partially offset by the addition of approximately 600
employees from the company’s March 5, 2008, acquisition of Wanda Snap-on,
a tool manufacturer in China.

Approximately
3,000 employees, or 26%, of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by
unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements.  Approximately 1,400 employees are covered
under agreements expiring in 2009. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced
any significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

The number of
covered union employees whose contracts expire within the next five years
approximates 1,400 employees in 2009; 900 employees in 2010; 400 employees in
2011; and zero employees in 2012 and 2013.

There can be no
assurance that future contracts with Snap-on’s unions will be renegotiated upon
terms acceptable to Snap-on.

Working Capital

As most of
Snap-on’s business is not seasonal and its inventory needs are relatively
constant, no unusual working capital needs arose during the year.  Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of
orders at January 3, 2009.

Snap-on’s
liquidity and capital resources and use of working capital are discussed herein
in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

Neither
Snap-on nor any of its segments, except Financial Services, depend on any
single customer, small group of customers or government for any material part
of its revenues.  As a result of SOC’s
relationship with CIT, Snap-on’s Financial Services segment depends on CIT for
more than 10% of its revenues.

Item 1A

: Risk Factors

In evaluating the company, careful
consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the
other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including
the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes.  Each of these risk factors could adversely
affect the company’s business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial
condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the
company’s common stock.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Economic conditions and world events could affect
our operating results.

We, our franchisees and our
customers, may be adversely affected by an economic downturn such as changes in
consumer and investor confidence, instability in the credit and financial
markets, volatile corporate profits, and reduced business and consumer
spending.  We, our franchisees and
customers, and the economy as a whole, also may be affected by future world
events such as acts of terrorism, developments in the war on terrorism,
conflicts in international situations, and by natural disasters.  These factors may affect our results of
operations by reducing our sales, margins and/or net income as a result of a
slowdown in customer orders or order cancellations.  In addition, political and social turmoil
related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure
on economic conditions abroad. Unstable political, social and economic
conditions may make it difficult for our franchisees, customers, suppliers and
us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such
conditions persist, our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flow could be negatively affected.

The success of Snap-on’s mobile van tool
distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees.

Approximately 38% of our 2008
revenues were generated by the Snap-on Tools Group, which consists of Snap-on’s
business operations serving the worldwide van channel. Except in limited
circumstances, each of our mobile tool vans is operated by a franchisee
pursuant to a franchise agreement. Snap-on’s success is dependent on its
relationships with franchisees, individually and collectively, as they are the
primary sales and service link between the company and vehicle service and
repair technicians, who are an important class of end users for Snap-on’s
products and services. If our franchisees are not successful, or if we do not
maintain an effective relationship with our franchisees, the delivery of
products, the collection of receivables and/or our relationship with end users
could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

In addition, if we are unable to
maintain effective relationships with franchisees, the company or the
franchisees may choose to terminate the relationship, which may result in (i) open
routes, in which end-use customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation
resulting from termination; (iii) reduced collections or increased
write-offs of franchisee receivables owed to Snap-on; and/or (iv) reduced
collections or increased write-offs of extended credit contracts and, to a
lesser extent, lease contracts that are collected by franchisees on behalf of
SOC.  As Snap-on has approximately 4,700
franchisees worldwide and most of these franchise relationships are governed by
contract, it is not uncommon for litigation to result from the termination of
these relationships.

The automotive industry is
currently experiencing financial difficulties, which could affect our business
and operating results.

Some of our business units have
substantial interrelationships with the automotive industry.  There is currently substantial weakness and
turmoil in the United States’ automotive industry.  This weakness could result in the failure of
certain automobile manufacturers, as well as suppliers and dealers who are
dependent upon them.  It could also result
in a reduction in the number of automobile dealerships through consolidations
or as a result of changes in the automakers or their manner of conducting
business.  Additionally, the weakness of
companies in that industry could affect their levels of purchases from us and
the collectibility of amounts owed to us. 
Even though we believe that our products and services enhance
productivity, a reduction in the number of automotive manufacturers or dealers,
or their capital expenditures, could substantially affect our sales.  Any of those factors could negatively affect
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

Raw material and energy price
fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could
adversely affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could
adversely affect our results of operations.

The principal raw material used in
the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive,
price-sensitive markets.  To meet Snap-on’s
high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which
are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity
types of alloys.  These raw materials
have historically exhibited price and demand fluctuations of a cyclical nature.
Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short
supply.  As some steel alloys require
specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages
if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice.  Additionally, unexpected price increases for
other raw materials could result in higher prices to our customers or an
erosion of the margins on our products.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

We believe our ability to sell our
products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the road, the number of
miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. 
These factors affect the frequency, type and amount of service and
repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand
for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and,
subsequently, the demand technicians have for our tools, other products and
services, and the value technicians place on those products and services.  To the extent that gasoline prices increase,
consumers may turn to other, non-gasoline based, methods of transportation,
including more frequent use of public transportation.  A decrease in the use of gasoline consuming
vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products.

We use various energy sources to
transport, produce and distribute products, and some of our products have
components that are petroleum based. 
Petroleum and energy prices have recently been volatile and have
generally increased; further volatility and changes may be caused by market
fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and
transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental
programs.  Energy price increases raise
both our operating costs and the costs of our materials, and we may not be able
to increase our prices enough to offset these costs.  Higher prices also may reduce the level of
future customer orders and our profitability.

Instability and uncertainty in the credit and
financial markets could adversely impact the availability of credit.

Instability and uncertainty in the
credit and financial markets could adversely impact the availability of future
financing and the terms on which it might be available to Snap-on, its end-user
customers, franchisees and suppliers. 
Inability to access credit markets, or a deterioration in the terms on
which financing might be available, could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

The inability to provide
acceptable financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees could
adversely impact operating results.

An integral component of our
business and profitability is our ability to offer financing alternatives to
end-user customers and franchisees which, for our domestic financing
operations, are managed through a joint venture with CIT.  Since 1999, CIT has been the exclusive
purchaser of the credit and installment financing arranged by SOC in the United
States.  A deterioration of the
relationship between the joint venture partners, including if the joint venture
should be unexpectedly dissolved or if CIT were to no longer purchase the
credit and installment financing contracts originated by SOC, could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations and ability to provide financing to
end-user customers and franchisees in the United States.  Adverse fluctuations in interest rates and/or
the ability to provide competitive financing programs could also have an
adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.

Exposure to credit risks of
customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could
adversely affect operating results and financial condition.

Industry and economic conditions
have the potential to weaken the financial position of some of our customers.
If circumstances surrounding our customers’ financial capabilities were to
deteriorate, such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our
operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow.

Failure to achieve expected
investment returns on pension plan assets, as well as changes in interest
rates, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and
cash flow.

Snap-on
sponsors various pension benefit plans. 
The assets of the pension plans are broadly diversified in an attempt to mitigate the risk of a large
loss.  The assets are invested in equity securities, fixed income
securities, real estate and other real
assets, other alternative investments and cash.  Required
funding for the company’s defined benefit pension plans is determined in
accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA). Additional contributions to enhance the funded status of
the pension plans can be made at the company’s discretion. However,
there can be no assurance that the value of the pension plan assets, or the
investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of
such plans.  In addition, during periods of adverse investment market
conditions and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make
additional cash contributions to the plans that could reduce our financial
flexibility.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Our
defined benefit pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market
interest rates.  Significant
fluctuations in market interest rates have added, and may further add,
volatility to our pension plan obligations.  Declining market interest
rates will increase our pension plan obligations.  While our plan assets
are broadly diversified, there are inherent market risks associated with investments.
 Our defined benefit pension plan assets, in the aggregate, incurred a
substantial loss in fiscal 2008 as a result of market conditions; if adverse
market conditions continue, our plan assets could incur further losses. 
Since we may need to make additional contributions to address an increase in
obligations and/or a loss in plan assets, the combination of declining market
interest rates and/or plan asset investment losses could adversely impact our
financial position and results of operations.

The company’s defined benefit
pension expense is comprised of the following factors: (i) service cost; (ii) interest
on projected benefit obligations; (iii) the expected return on plan
assets; (iv) the amortization of prior service costs; and (v) the
effects of actuarial gains and losses.  The accounting for pensions
involves the estimation of a number of factors that are highly uncertain.  Certain factors, such as the interest cost
and the expected return on plan assets, are impacted by changes in market
interest rates and the value of plan assets.  A significant decrease in
market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value of plan assets would
increase net pension expense and may adversely affect the company’s future
results of operations.  See Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company’s
pension benefit plans.

The steps taken to restructure
operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses, and
achieve greater efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business.

We have taken steps in the past, and
expect to take additional steps in 2009, intended to improve customer service
and to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs, some of which could be
disruptive to our business.  These
actions, collectively across our operating groups, are focused on the
following:

We believe that by executing on
these focus areas, along with a continued commitment to new innovative products
and RCI initiatives to drive higher levels of productivity and lower costs, the
company and its franchisees will realize stronger growth and
profitability.  However, failure to
succeed in the implementation of any or all of these actions could result in an
inability to achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to the business.

In addition, reductions to headcount
and other cost reduction measures may result in the loss of technical expertise
that could adversely affect our research and development efforts and ability to
meet product development schedules. 
Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the recording of
charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction
costs or other charges relating to the consolidation of facilities.  If we were to incur a substantial charge to
further these efforts, our earnings (or loss) per share would be adversely
affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively manage our cost
reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flow could be negatively affected.

Failure to maintain effective
distribution of products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross
margin and profitability.

We use a variety of distribution
methods to sell our products and services. 
Successfully managing the interaction of our distribution efforts to
reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a
complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks,
costs and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance
in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our
revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Risks associated with the
disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or
competitive position.

We manufacture a significant portion
of the products we sell.  Any prolonged
disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether
due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component
availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (including natural
disasters, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), or other
reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flow.

The inability to continue to
introduce new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market
acceptance could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability.

Sales from new products represent a
significant portion of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent
a significant component of our future net sales.  We may not be able to compete effectively
unless we continue to enhance existing products or introduce new products to
the marketplace in a timely manner. 
Product improvements and new product introductions require significant
financial and other resources including significant planning, design,
development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process
levels.  Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be
more effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or
render our products obsolete.  Any new
products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise
generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our
expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments
in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing,
promotional programs, and research and development.

The global tool, equipment, and
diagnostics and repair industry is competitive.

We face strong competition in all of
our market segments.  Price competition
in our various industries is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and
customers are increasing.  In general, as
a manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services, the expectations
of Snap-on’s customers and its franchisees are high and increasing.  Any inability to maintain customer
satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and reputation and could
result in a lessening of its ability to command premium pricing.  We expect that the level of competition will
remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or
increase market share or profitability.

Product liability claims and
litigation could affect our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow.

The products that we design and/or
manufacture can lead to product liability claims being filed against us.  To the extent that plaintiffs are successful
in showing that defects in the design or manufacture of our products led to
personal injury or property damage, we may be subject to claims for damages.  Although we are insured for damages above a
certain amount, we bear the costs and expenses associated with defending
claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and are responsible for damages below the
insurance retention amount.  As a
manufacturer, we can be subject to the costs and potential negative publicity
of product recalls, which could impact our results.

We may not successfully integrate
businesses we acquire, which could have an adverse impact on our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

The pursuit of future growth through
acquisitions, including participation in joint ventures, involves significant
risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial position.  These
risks include:

·

Loss of the acquired businesses’ customers;

·

An inability to integrate
successfully the acquired businesses’ operations;

·

Inability to coordinate management
and integrate and retain employees of the acquired businesses;

·

Difficulties in implementing and
maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and
information systems;

·

Failure to realize anticipated
synergies, economies of scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain
operating margins;

·

Strain on our personnel, systems and
resources, and diversion of attention from other priorities;

·

Incurrence of additional debt and
related interest expense;

·

The dilutive effect of the issuance
of additional equity securities;

·

Unforeseen or contingent liabilities
of the acquired businesses; and

·

Large write-offs or write-downs, or
the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Information technology
infrastructure is critical to supporting business objectives; failure of our
information technology infrastructure to operate effectively could adversely
affect our business.

We depend heavily on information
technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives.  If a problem occurs that impairs this
infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record or
process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on
business in the normal course.  Any such
events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to
incur significant expense to remediate.

In association with initiatives to
better integrate business units, rationalize operating footprint and improve
responsiveness to franchisees and customers, Snap-on is replacing and enhancing
its existing global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) management information
systems.  The integration, implementation
and deployment of new information technology processes and a common information
infrastructure, which began in 2006, is occurring over a multi-year
period.  We could experience disruptions
in our business as we implement the system enhancements, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flow.

The recognition of impairment
charges on goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely impact future
financial position and results of operations.

We are required to perform
impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangibles annually or at any time
when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our
determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of
each of our reporting units’ fair market value with its carrying value.
Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant
adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators,
unanticipated competition, loss of key customers and/or changes in technology
or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a future period that
could substantially affect our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated
net worth and shareholders’ equity.

Failure to adequately protect
intellectual property could adversely affect our business.

Intellectual property rights are an
important and integral component of our business. We attempt to protect our
intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark,
copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and
third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Adverse determinations in
a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and
selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and
selling competing products. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection
of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

Our operations expose us to
the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and
reputation.

Certain
of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the
jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge
of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the
generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. We must
also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and
abroad in connection with our operations. 
Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and
criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In
addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged
environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal
practices.  We cannot provide assurance
that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and
health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Foreign operations are subject to
currency exchange, political, economic and other risks that could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

Approximately 43% of our revenues in
2008 were generated outside of the United States.  Future growth rates and success of our
business depends in large part on continued growth in our
non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets.  Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our
non-U.S. operations.  These risks
and uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, such as
acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions,
changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or
increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
international subsidiaries, transportation delays or interruptions and
difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.  We are also affected by changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates.  Additionally, cash generated in
non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to repatriate to the United
States in a tax-efficient manner. 
Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks and challenges,
such as the need to staff and manage diverse workforces, respond to the needs
of multiple national and international marketplaces, and differing business
climates and cultures in various countries.

The inability to successfully
defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of

operations
and cash flow.

We conduct business in many
countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in
each of those taxing jurisdictions.  Due
to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the
subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax
liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments.  Claims from taxing authorities related to
these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial position.

Failure to attract and retain
qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue and/or profitability.

Snap-on’s success depends, in part,
on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team and other key
employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit
our operations and administration.  The
failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other
key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results.  In addition, transitions of important
responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of
disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

Item 1B

: Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Item 2: Properties

Snap-on maintains leased and owned manufacturing,
warehouse, distribution and office facilities throughout the world. Snap-on
believes that its facilities currently in use are suitable and have adequate
capacity to meet its present and foreseeable future demand.  Snap-on’s facilities in the United States
occupy approximately 3.6 million square feet, of which 72% is owned, including
its corporate and general office facility located in Kenosha, Wisconsin.  Snap-on’s facilities outside the United
States occupy approximately 3.6 million square feet, of which approximately 63%
is owned.  Certain Snap-on facilities are
leased through operating and capital lease agreements.  See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on the company’s operating and capital leases.  Snap-on management continually monitors the
company’s capacity needs and makes adjustments as dictated by market and other
conditions.

The following table provides information about each of
Snap-on’s principal manufacturing locations and distribution centers (exceeding
50,000 square feet) as of January 3, 2009:

*Segment abbreviations:

C&I –
Commercial & Industrial Group

SOT – Snap-on
Tools Group

D&I –
Diagnostics & Information Group


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Snap-on
closed its Johnson City, Tennessee, manufacturing facility in 2007; the
facility was sold in December 2008.

Item 3: Legal Proceedings

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on legal
proceedings.

Snap-on
is involved in various legal matters that are being litigated and/or settled in
the ordinary course of business. 
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal
matters, management believes that the results will not have a material impact
on Snap-on’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters
were submitted to a vote of shareholders during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year ended January 3, 2009.

PART II

Item 5:
Market

for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

At January 3,
2009, Snap-on had 57,441,941 shares of common stock outstanding.  Snap-on’s stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “SNA.” 
As of February 13, 2009, there were 7,196 registered holders of
Snap-on common stock.

Snap-on’s common
stock high and low prices, as of the close of trading, for the last two fiscal
years by quarter were as follows:

Common Stock
High/Low Prices

Snap-on has paid
consecutive quarterly cash dividends, without interruption or reduction, since
1939.  Quarterly dividends declared in
2008 were $0.30 per share ($1.20 per share for the year).  Quarterly dividends declared in 2007 were
$0.30 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.27 per share in the first three
quarters ($1.11 per share for the year). 
Quarterly dividends declared in 2006 were $0.27 per share ($1.08 per
share for the year).  Cash dividends paid
in 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $69.7 million, $64.8 million and $63.6 million,
respectively.  Snap-on’s Board of
Directors’ (“Board”) monitors and evaluates the company’s dividend practice
quarterly and the Board may elect to increase, decrease or not pay a dividend
on Snap-on common stock based upon the company’s financial condition, results
of operations, cash requirements and future prospects of Snap-on and other
factors deemed relevant by the Board

.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information on
securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


We did not make any repurchases of
shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  Snap-on has undertaken stock repurchases from
time to time to offset dilution created by shares issued for employee and
franchisee stock purchase plans, stock options, and other corporate
purposes.  We also repurchase shares when
we believe market conditions are favorable. 
The repurchase of Snap-on common stock is at the company’s discretion,
subject to prevailing financial and market conditions.  As of January 3, 2009, the approximate
value of shares that may yet be purchased pursuant to three outstanding Board
authorizations is $117.2 million.  The
three outstanding Board authorizations are described below:

·

In fiscal 1996, the Board
authorized the company to repurchase shares of the company’s common stock from time
to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions (“the 1996
Authorization”).  The 1996 Authorization
allows the repurchase of up to the number of shares issued or delivered from
treasury from time to time under the various plans the company has in place
that call for the issuance of the company’s common stock.  Because the number of shares that are
purchased pursuant to the 1996 Authorization will change from time to time as (i) the
company issues shares under its various plans; and (ii) shares are
repurchased pursuant to this authorization, the number of shares authorized to
be repurchased will vary from time to time. The 1996 Authorization will expire
when terminated by the Board.  When
calculating the approximate value of shares that the company may yet purchase
under the 1996 Authorization, the company assumed a price of $34.72, $ 30.37 and
$41.10 per share of common stock as of the end of the fiscal 2008 months ended October 25,
2008; November 22, 2008; and January 3, 2009, respectively.

·

In fiscal 1998 the Board authorized
the repurchase of an aggregate of $100 million of the company’s common stock (“the
1998 Authorization”).  The 1998
Authorization will expire when the aggregate repurchase price limit is met,
unless terminated earlier by the Board.

·

In fiscal 1999 the Board authorized
the repurchase of an aggregate of $50 million of the company’s common stock (“the
1999 Authorization”). The 1999 Authorization will expire when the aggregate
repurchase price limit is met, unless terminated earlier by the Board.

During 2008, the company repurchased
1,230,000 shares of common stock at an average purchase price of $56.73 per
share.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Five-year Stock Performance Graph

The graph below illustrates the
cumulative total shareholder return on Snap-on Common Stock since December 31,
2003, assuming that dividends were reinvested. 
The graph compares Snap-on’s performance to that of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Stock Index (“S&P 500”) and a Peer Group.

Snap-on
Incorporated Total Shareholder Return

(1)

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Item
6: Selected Financial Data

The selected
financial data presented below has been derived from, and should be read in
conjunction with, the respective historical consolidated financial statements
of the company, including the notes thereto, and Item 7, Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item
7:  Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management Overview

In 2008 the world experienced a
global economic slowdown and tightened credit environment.  Despite the challenges of a deepening global
recession, many of Snap-on’s businesses experienced sales growth in 2008 and we
continued investing in our strategic growth initiatives aimed at fortifying our
business models, pursuing geographic and customer diversification, expanding
our presence in emerging markets, and driving value creation processes,
including innovation and rapid continuous improvement.  We believe the continued advancement of these
strategic initiatives will help create an environment to achieve long-term
value for company shareholders, associates, franchisees and other distributor
partners across our varied business segments and channels.

Net sales in 2008 of $2,853.3
million increased slightly from $2,841.2 million in 2007, while operating
earnings of $388.8 million in 2008 increased 19.7% from $324.8 million in
2007.  The significant increase in
year-over-year operating earnings was primarily driven by contributions from
our ongoing efficiency, productivity and cost reduction (collectively “Rapid
Continuous Improvement” or “RCI”) initiatives, as well as increased income from
our financial services businesses.  These
benefits were partially offset by higher costs in 2008 as a result of price
increases for steel, fuel and other commodities.

Economic challenges, however,
increased significantly during the fourth quarter of 2008 as customers
curtailed spending in response to the worsening global recession.  As a result of the economic slowdown, Snap-on’s
sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined 10.1% from prior year levels.  In response to these economic challenges, we
accelerated certain RCI initiatives and are continuing – even accelerating –
certain planned investments that include further expansion of our manufacturing
capacity in China and in Eastern Europe, as we see these investments as
potentially enabling near-term growth. 
In 2009 we intend to aggressively manage the balance between investing
and capturing growth opportunities with the need for additional cost reduction
actions beyond those already implemented. 
We also experienced considerable adverse effects from foreign currency
exchange rate movements in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Given our increasingly global footprint,
foreign currency exchange rates could have a more pronounced effect on our
sales and operating profit comparisons in 2009.

Our strategic priorities and plans
for 2009 will continue to build on the improvement initiatives underway to
achieve sustainable, profitable growth. 
Global market conditions, however, may affect the level and timing of
resources deployed in pursuit of these initiatives in 2009.

In the

Commercial &
Industrial Group

, higher sales, including growth in emerging
markets, combined with expense control and savings from restructuring
initiatives delivered improvements in operating performance.  Segment net sales of $1,409.3 million in 2008
were up 4.3% over 2007 levels, and operating earnings of $167.3 million in 2008
were up 27.2% over 2007 levels.  Benefits
from continued sales growth and improved levels of customer service, along with
savings from ongoing RCI and restructuring initiatives, including increased
production and sourcing of materials from lower-cost regions, were major
contributors to the year-over-year earnings improvement.

The Commercial & Industrial
Group expects to continue to build on the following strategic priorities in
2009:

·

Continue to invest in emerging
market growth initiatives, including China, India and Eastern Europe;

·

Increase market share in key
industrial market segments by reaching new customers, expanding our business
with existing customers, and continually expanding value-added content;

·

Continue to invest in innovation
that delivers productivity-enhancing solutions that utilize the latest
technology;

·

Continue to pursue key customer
segments that offer long-term growth potential; and

·

Continue to rationalize the
operating footprint and reduce structural costs.

In the

Snap-on Tools Group

, progress continued on fundamental,
strategic initiatives to strengthen the group and enhance franchisee
profitability and satisfaction.

Segment net sales of $1,104.0
million in 2008 were down slightly from 2007 levels primarily due to a more
challenging economic environment for sales of higher-priced products and hand
tools.  Supply chain improvements and an
ongoing transition to a market-demand-based replenishment system in 2008
continued to improve complete and on-time delivery of a broad assortment of
products.  Operating earnings of $117.7 million in 2008 declined from
$125.1 million in 2007, primarily due to increased commodity and inflation
costs, higher restructuring costs, and increased “last-in, first-out” (“LIFO”)
related inventory valuation expense.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (continued)

The Snap-on Tools Group expects to
continue to build on the progress made in enhancing the franchise proposition
and delivering customer productivity solutions, with specific initiatives in
2009 focused on the following:

·

Continue to improve franchisee
profitability and satisfaction;

·

Continue to fill open territories in
the United States;

·

Develop new programs to expand
market coverage;

·

Continue to invest in new product
innovation and development; and

·

Increase supply chain flexibility
through investments in manufacturing and RCI initiatives.

By executing in these areas, we
believe that we, as well as our franchisees, will continue to serve more
customers better and more profitably.

In the

Diagnostics &
Information Group

, segment net sales of $627.8 million in 2008
declined 3.5% from 2007 levels, while operating earnings in 2008 increased
13.5% over 2007 levels to $112.9 million. 
This significant increase in operating earnings reflects increased sales
of certain product lines, contributions from increased productivity and lower
costs as a result of RCI initiatives across all businesses, and $5.4 million
from the adjustment of a pre-acquisition contingency acquired with the Snap-on
Business Solutions (“Business Solutions”) acquisition in November 2006.

Sales of diagnostics products
worldwide and Mitchell1™ information products continued to grow as a result of
the development and launch of new products and the continued expansion of
functionality and product integration. 
These sales increases were more than offset by lower original equipment
manufacturer (“OEM”) program sales and lower sales at Business Solutions.  OEM sales in 2008 declined from 2007 levels
primarily as a result of the rollout of a major essential tool program in North
America in 2007 that was not repeated in 2008, and the impact of the wind down
of a facilitation program in Europe.  
Despite a year-over-year sales decline, including the impact from the
planned exit of certain non-core product lines, the 2006 acquisition of
Business Solutions continues to provide a strong base for relationships with
key OEM customers, strengthening our position as a provider of essential
productivity solutions.

The Diagnostics &
Information Group expects to focus on the following strategic priorities in
2009:

·

Continue hardware and software
content upgrades;

·

Expand product range with new
products and services;

·

Increase penetration of geographic
markets;

·

Leverage integration of software
solutions; and

·

Continue productivity advancements
through RCI initiatives and leveraging of resources.

Financial Services

revenue increased 29.2% to $81.4
million in 2008, and operating income of $37.3 million was up 66.5% from prior
year, primarily due to lower market discount rates in 2008.  Originations in 2008 were essentially flat
with prior-year levels.

Cash Flows

Cash flow from operations was $215.0 million in 2008,
as compared to $231.1 million in 2007. 
Snap-on used available cash in 2008 to invest $73.9 million in capital
expenditures, repurchase 1,230,000 shares of Snap-on common stock for $69.8
million and pay dividends totaling $69.7 million.  Capital expenditures in 2008 of $73.9 million
reflect higher levels of spending to support strategic supply chain and other
growth initiatives, including the expansion of the company’s manufacturing
capabilities in lower-cost regions and emerging markets, as well as higher
levels of efficiency and cost-reduction capital investments.  Cash at year-end 2008 of $115.8 million was
up from $93.0 million at year-end 2007. 
In 2007, the company used available cash to repurchase 1,860,000 shares
of Snap-on common stock for $94.4 million, pay dividends totaling $64.8
million, invest $61.9 million in capital expenditures and pay down debt of
$36.6 million.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Results of Operations

Fiscal 2008 vs. Fiscal 2007

Results of operations for the fiscal
years ended January 3, 2009 (fiscal 2008), and December 29, 2007
(fiscal 2007), are as follows:

Percentage
Disclosure:  Cost of goods sold, Gross
profit and Operating expenses percentages are calculated as a percentage of Net
sales.  Financial services expenses and
Operating income from financial services percentages are calculated as a
percentage of Financial services revenue. 
All other income statement line item percentages are calculated as a
percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Snap-on’s 2008 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of
operating results; Snap-on’s 2007 fiscal year contained 52 weeks of operating
results.  The impact of the additional
week, which occurred in the fourth quarter, was not material to Snap-on’s
fourth quarter or full year 2008 net sales or operating earnings.

Net sales in 2008 of $2,853.3 million increased $12.1
million, or 0.4%, from 2007 levels. 
Excluding $35.5 million of currency translation, net sales in 2008
declined $23.4 million, or 0.8%, from 2007 levels.  The year-over-year sales comparison was
significantly impacted by weakened consumer and business demand in 2008,
particularly in the fourth quarter, as customers curtailed spending — primarily
for purchases of higher-priced products — in response to the worsening global
recession.

Sales in the Commercial &
Industrial Group of $1,409.3 million increased $58.7 million, or 4.3%, from
2007 levels; excluding $37.0 million of currency translation, organic sales
(net sales, excluding currency translation effects), increased 1.6% from 2007
levels.  Sales in the Snap-on Tools Group
of $1,104.0 million declined $3.7 million, or 0.3%, from 2007 levels; excluding
$1.2 million of favorable currency translation, organic sales declined $4.9
million, or 0.4%, from 2007 levels.  In
the Diagnostics & Information Group, sales of $627.8 million declined $22.8
million, or 3.5%, from 2007 levels; excluding $1.6 million of currency
translation, organic sales declined $21.2 million, or 3.3%, from 2007 levels.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Gross profit
in 2008 was $1,284.6 million, as compared to $1,266.6 million in 2007.  The $18.0 million gross profit improvement
was primarily driven by $23.4 million of savings from ongoing RCI initiatives,
$16.6 million of lower restructuring costs and $9.8 million of currency
translation, partially offset by $24.6 million of higher production, material
and freight costs.  Contributions from
higher sales and pricing were more than offset by the mix impact of lower sales
of higher-margin products.  In addition,
gross profit in 2008 included $4.7 million of LIFO-related inventory valuation
expense; gross profit in 2007 included LIFO-related inventory valuation
benefits of $0.3 million.  As a result of
these factors, gross profit margin was 45.0% in 2008, up 40 basis points (100
basis points equals 1.0 percent) from 44.6% in 2007.

Operating
expenses in 2008 were $933.1 million, as compared to $964.2 million in
2007.  The $31.1 million, or 3.2%,
improvement in operating expenses includes $28.8 million of contributions from
RCI initiatives, $10.9 million of lower franchisee termination costs, $5.0
million of lower performance-based incentive compensation and $4.3 million of
lower stock-based incentive compensation. 
Operating expenses in 2008 also benefited from a $5.4 million adjustment
of a pre-

acquisition contingency acquired with the Business Solutions
acquisition in 2006.  These declines in
operating expenses were partially offset by $10.3 million of currency
translation, $5.0 million of higher restructuring costs and $2.4 million of
increased spending to further expand the company’s presence in emerging growth
markets and lower-cost regions.  The
year-over-year operating expense comparison is also impacted by the inclusion,
in 2007, of $6.4 million of gains from the sale of facilities.  As a percentage of net sales, operating
expenses in 2008 improved 120 basis points to 32.7%, as compared to 33.9% in
2007.

Operating
income from Financial Services was $37.3 million on revenue of $81.4 million in
2008, as compared with $22.4 million of operating income on revenue of $63.0
million in 2007.  The $14.9 million
increase in year-over-year operating income primarily reflects the impact of
lower market discount rates in 2008.

Consolidated operating earnings in 2008 were $388.8
million, an increase of $64.0 million, or 19.7%, from the $324.8 million
achieved in 2007.  The $64.0 million
increase in year-over-year operating earnings includes $0.8 million of
unfavorable currency translation.

Interest expense of $33.8 million in
2008 declined $12.3 million from $46.1 million in 2007 primarily due to
declining interest rates on our floating rate debt and lower average debt
levels.

Other income (expense) – net was
income of $2.8 million in 2008, as compared to income of $5.5 million in 2007.  Other income (expense) – net primarily
includes interest income and hedging and currency exchange rate transaction
gains and losses.  See Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other income (expense) -
net.

Snap-on’s effective income tax rate
on earnings before equity earnings and minority interests was 32.9% in 2008 and
32.5% in 2007.  See Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income taxes.

On March 5, 2008, Snap-on
acquired a 60% interest in Zhejiang Wanda Tools Co., Ltd. (“Wanda Snap-on”), a
tool manufacturer in China, for a cash purchase price of $15.4 million (or
$14.1 million, net of cash acquired), including $1.2 million of transaction
costs.  The acquisition of Wanda Snap-on
is part of the company’s ongoing strategic initiatives to further expand its
manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost regions.  For segment reporting purposes, the results
of operations and assets of Wanda Snap-on are included in the
Commercial & Industrial Group. 
The net sales and operating earnings impact of Wanda Snap-on were not
material to Snap-on’s fourth quarter or full-year 2008 Consolidated Financial
Statements.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

On June 29, 2007, Snap-on sold
its Sun Electric Systems (“SES”) business based in the Netherlands for a
nominal cash purchase price.  The sale of
the SES business is reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Earnings as “Discontinued operations, net of tax.”  Snap-on recorded an after-tax loss of $8.0
million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in its 2007 results of operations related
to the sale and results of operations of SES. 
For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations of SES were
previously included in the Diagnostics & Information Group.  See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on SES.

Net earnings and net earnings from
continuing operations in 2008 were $236.7 million, or $4.07 per diluted share.  Net earnings from continuing operations in
2007 were $189.2 million, or $3.23 per diluted share; net earnings in 2007 were
$181.2 million, or $3.09 per diluted share.

Exit and Disposal Activities

See Note 7 to the Consolidated

Financial Statements for
information on Snap-on’s exit and disposal activities

.

Segment Results

Snap-on’s
business segments are based on the organization structure used by management
for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing
performance.  Snap-on’s reportable
business segments include: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group;
(ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Diagnostics &
Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services.  The Commercial & Industrial Group
consists of the business operations providing tools and equipment products and
equipment repair services to a broad range of industrial and commercial
customers worldwide through direct, distributor and other non-franchise
distribution channels.  The Snap-on Tools
Group consists of the business operations serving the worldwide franchise van
channel.  The Diagnostics &
Information Group consists of the business operations providing diagnostics
equipment, vehicle service information, business management systems, electronic
parts catalogs, and other solutions for vehicle service to customers in the
worldwide vehicle service and repair marketplace.  Financial Services consists of the business
operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), a consolidated, 50%-owned joint venture
between Snap-on and The CIT Group, Inc. (“CIT”), and Snap-on’s wholly
owned finance subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has
franchise operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of
its operating segments based on segment revenues and operating earnings.  For the Commercial & Industrial,
Snap-on Tools, and Diagnostics & Information Groups, segment net sales
include both external and intersegment net sales.  Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and
transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established
between the segments.  Identifiable
assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s
operations.  Corporate assets consist of
cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes, pension assets and certain
other assets.  Intersegment amounts are
eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Commercial & Industrial
Group

Segment net sales of $1,409.3 million in 2008
increased $58.7 million, or 4.3%, from 2007 levels.  Excluding $37.0 million of currency
translation, sales increased $21.7 million, or 1.6%, year over year primarily
due to higher sales of tools, kits and tool storage products to industrial
customers, increased sales of power tools and imaging alignment systems, and
continued strong sales growth in emerging markets.

Segment gross profit of $530.4 million in 2008
increased $46.9 million, or 9.7%, over 2007 levels.  The $46.9 million increase in gross profit
includes contributions from higher sales and pricing, $17.4 million of lower
restructuring costs, $15.1 million of savings from RCI initiatives, and $10.7
million of currency translation.  These
increases in gross profit were partially offset by $9.9 million of higher
production and material costs.  As a
percentage of net sales, gross profit of 37.6% improved 180 basis points over
35.8% in 2007.  Operating expenses of
$363.1 million increased $11.1 million from 2007 levels primarily due to $10.0
million of currency translation, $3.4 million of inflationary cost increases,
and higher volume-related and other expenses, including $2.4 million of costs
to further expand the company’s sales and manufacturing presence in emerging
growth markets and lower cost regions. 
These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by $10.1
million of savings from RCI initiatives. 
The year-over-year operating expense comparison is also impacted by the
inclusion, in 2007, of $5.4 million of gains on the sale of facilities in
Europe.  As a result of these factors,
segment operating earnings of $167.3 million in 2008 increased $35.8 million,
or 27.2%, from 2007 levels and, as a percentage of net sales, improved from
9.7% in 2007 to 11.9% in 2008.  The $35.8
million increase in year-over-year operating earnings includes $0.7 million of
favorable currency translation.

Snap-on Tools Group

Segment net sales of $1,104.0 million in 2008
decreased $3.7 million, or 0.3%, from 2007 levels.  Excluding $1.2 million of favorable currency
translation, 2008 sales declined $4.9 million, or 0.4%, from 2007 levels, as
continued higher sales in the company’s international franchise operations were
more than offset by lower U.S. franchise sales. 
Sales to U.S. franchisees declined 3.2% year over year primarily due to
a more challenging economic environment for sales of higher-priced products and
hand tools, partially offset by increased sales of power tools and diagnostics
products.  At year end 2008, van count in
the United States was up slightly compared to both September 27, 2008, and
December 29, 2007, levels.  Sales in
the company’s international franchise operations increased 6.6% year over year
primarily due to strong growth in the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Segment gross profit of $467.5 million in 2008
declined $22.0 million, or 4.5%, from 2007 levels.  The $22.0 million gross profit decline
primarily reflects the impacts of lower U.S. sales, including a shift in
product mix to higher sales of lower-margin products, and $13.7 million of
increased production and material costs. 
In addition, gross profit in 2008
included $4.7 million of LIFO-related inventory valuation expense; gross profit
in 2007 included $0.3 million of LIFO-related inventory valuation
benefits.  These declines in gross profit
were partially offset by contributions from higher pricing, $6.3 million of
benefits from RCI initiatives, and $3.1 million of lower warranty expense.  Operating expenses of $349.8 million
in 2008 decreased $14.6 million, or 4.0%, from prior-year levels largely due to
$10.9 million of lower franchisee termination costs and $6.7 million of
benefits from RCI initiatives.  These
decreases to operating expenses were partially offset by $4.1 million of higher
restructuring costs.  As a result of
these factors, segment operating earnings of $117.7 million in 2008 declined
$7.4 million from $125.1 million in 2007 and, as a percentage of net sales,
declined from 11.3% in 2007 to 10.7% in 2008. 
The $7.4 million decline in year-over-year operating earnings includes
$0.8 million of unfavorable currency translation.

Diagnostics &
Information Group

Segment net sales of $627.8 million in 2008 declined
$22.8 million, or 3.5%, from 2007 levels, including $1.6 million from currency
translation.  Higher sales of diagnostics
and

Mitchell1

information products were more
than offset by approximately $40 million of lower OEM program sales and by
lower sales at Business Solutions, including expected lower sales from the
planned exit of certain non-core product lines. 
The year-over-year decline in OEM program sales is primarily a
consequence of the 2007 rollout of a major essential tool program in North
America that was not repeated and the impact of the wind down of a facilitation
program in Europe.

Segment gross profit of $286.7 million in 2008
decreased $6.9 million, or 2.4%, from 2007 levels as the impacts of lower
sales, $3.0 million of higher software development and other costs, $0.9
million of increased restructuring costs, and $0.8 million of currency
translation were partially offset by gross profit contributions from a more
favorable product mix and $2.0 million of benefits from RCI initiatives.  Operating expenses of $173.8 million in 2008
declined $20.3 million from 2007 levels as $13.3 million of savings from RCI
initiatives, lower volume-related expenses, and $0.4 million of currency
translation were partially offset by $0.9 million of higher restructuring
costs.  In addition, operating expenses
in 2008 benefited from a $5.4 million adjustment of a pre-acquisition
contingency acquired with the Business Solutions acquisition in 2006.  As a result of these factors, segment
operating earnings of $112.9 million in 2008 increased $13.4 million, or 13.5%,
from $99.5 million in 2007 and, as a percentage of net sales, improved from
15.3% in 2007 to 18.0% in 2008.  The
$13.4 million increase in year-over-year operating earnings was reduced by $0.4
million of unfavorable currency translation.

Financial Services

Segment operating income in 2008 was
$37.3 million on $81.4 million of revenue, as compared with $22.4 million of
operating income on $63.0 million of revenue in 2007.  The $14.9 million increase in year-over-year
operating income primarily reflects the impact of lower market discount rates
in 2008.  Originations of $532.8 million
in 2008 declined 1.3% from originations of $539.6 million in 2007.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Corporate

Snap-on’s general corporate expenses
totaled $46.4 million in 2008, as compared to $53.7 million incurred in
2007.  The $7.3 million decline in
year-over-year corporate expenses primarily reflects lower performance-based
and stock-based incentive compensation in 2008.

Fourth Quarter

Results of operations for the fiscal
fourth quarters ended January 3, 2009 (fiscal 2008), and December 29,
2007 (fiscal 2007), are as follows:

Percentage
Disclosure:  Cost of goods sold, Gross
profit and Operating expenses percentages are calculated as a percentage of Net
sales.  Financial services expenses and
Operating income from financial services percentages are calculated as a
percentage of Financial services revenue. 
All other income statement line item percentages are calculated as a
percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Snap-on’s 2008 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of
operating results, with the extra week occurring in the fourth quarter;
Snap-on’s 2007 fiscal year contained 52 weeks of operating results.  The impact of the additional week was not
material to Snap-on’s fourth quarter or full year 2008 net sales or operating
earnings.

Net sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 of $667.8
million declined $75.1 million, or 10.1%, from 2007 levels, reflecting lower
levels of consumer and business spending as a result of worsening economic
conditions and continued tight credit conditions. The year-over-year decline in
fourth quarter sales also includes $42.2 million of currency translation,
largely from the recent strengthening of the dollar.  Snap-on has significant international operations
and is subject to certain risks inherent with foreign operations, including
currency translation fluctuations. 
Excluding the $42.2 million of unfavorable currency translation, organic
sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined 4.4% from 2007 levels.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Sales in the Commercial & Industrial Group of
$326.8 million declined $42.5 million, or 11.5%, from 2007 levels, including
$24.4 million of unfavorable currency translation.  Sales in the Snap-on Tools Group of $252.4
million declined $20.8 million, or 7.6%, from 2007 levels, including $12.2
million of unfavorable currency translation. 
In the Diagnostics & Information Group, sales of $152.9 million
declined $16.6 million, or 9.8%, from 2007 levels, including $7.1 million of
unfavorable currency translation.

Gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2008 was $300.0 million,
as compared to $333.4 million in 2007. 
The $33.4 million gross profit decline primarily includes the impacts of
lower sales, $16.7 million of currency translation, and $9.5 million of higher
production, material and freight costs. 
These declines in gross profit were partially offset by contributions
from higher pricing, $5.1 million of lower restructuring costs, and $4.9
million of savings from RCI initiatives. 
In addition, fourth quarter 2008 gross profit included $0.3 million of
LIFO-related inventory valuation expense; gross profit in the fourth quarter of
2007 included $6.0 million of LIFO-related inventory valuation benefits.  As a result of these factors, gross profit
margin of 44.9% in 2008 was equal to 2007 levels.

Operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008 were
$211.4 million, as compared to $245.1 million in 2007.  The $33.7 million improvement in operating
expenses primarily includes $12.6 million of savings from RCI initiatives,
$10.9 million of currency translation, $5.0 million of lower performance-based
incentive compensation, $4.3 million of lower stock-based incentive
compensation, and lower volume-related expenses.  Operating expenses in 2008 were further
reduced by a $5.4 million adjustment of a pre-acquisition contingency acquired
with the Business Solutions acquisition in 2006.  These reductions in operating expenses were
partially offset by $2.0 million of higher restructuring costs.  The year-over-year operating expense
comparison is also impacted by the inclusion, in 2007, of a $4.0 million gain
from the sale of a facility in Europe.

As a
percentage of net sales, operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2008
improved 130 basis points to 31.7%, as compared to 33.0% in 2007.

Operating income from Financial Services was $8.9
million on revenue of $19.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, as compared
with $8.0 million of operating income on revenue of $19.0 million in 2007.  Contributions from higher revenues in 2008,
primarily as a result of lower market discount rates, were partially offset by
a 12.8% decline in originations.

Consolidated operating earnings in the fourth quarter
of 2008 were $97.5 million, an increase of $1.2 million, or 1.2%, from the $96.3
million achieved in the fourth quarter of 2007. 
The $1.2 million increase in year-over-year operating earnings includes
$6.4 million of unfavorable currency translation.

Interest expense of $8.7 million in
the fourth quarter of 2008 was down $2.8 million from prior year primarily due
to declining interest rates on our floating rate debt and lower average debt
levels.

Other income (expense) – net was
expense of $0.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, as compared to income of
$0.4 million in 2007.  Other income
(expense) – net primarily includes interest income and hedging and currency
exchange rate transaction gains and losses. 
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on
other income (expense) – net.

Snap-on’s effective income tax rate
on earnings before equity earnings and minority interests was 31.9% in the
fourth quarter of 2008 and 31.2% in the fourth quarter of 2007.  See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on income taxes.

Net earnings in the fourth quarter
of 2008 were $58.6 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, as compared with net
earnings of $57.3 million, or $0.98 per diluted share, in 2007.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Commercial & Industrial
Group

Segment net sales of $326.8 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $42.5 million, or 11.5%, from 2007
levels.  Excluding $24.4 million of
unfavorable currency translation, sales declined $18.1 million, or 4.9%, year
over year primarily due to continued lower sales of professional tools in
Europe and lower overall equipment sales worldwide, despite strong double-digit
increases in sales of imaging aligner units. 
These year-over-year sales declines were partially offset by continued
higher sales of tools, kits and tool storage products to industrial customers
and by increased sales of power tools.

Segment gross profit of $123.6
million in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $8.9 million, or 6.7%, from 2007
levels.  The $8.9 million gross profit
decline includes the impacts of lower sales, $8.9 million of currency translation
and $4.8 million of higher production and material costs.  These decreases to gross profit were
partially offset by contributions from higher pricing, $6.3 million of lower
restructuring costs and $4.2 million of savings from RCI initiatives. As a percentage
of net sales, gross profit of 37.8% in the fourth quarter of 2008 improved 190
basis points over 35.9% in 2007. 
Operating expenses of $84.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008
improved $9.8 million from 2007 levels primarily due to $5.8 million of
currency translation, $5.6 million of savings from RCI initiatives, lower
volume-related and other expenses, and $1.0 million of lower restructuring
costs. The year-over-year operating expense
comparison is also impacted by the inclusion, in 2007, of a $4.0 million gain
from the sale of a facility in Europe.  As
a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $39.1 million in the
fourth quarter of 2008 increased $0.9 million from 2007 levels and, as a
percentage of net sales, improved from 10.3% in 2007 to 12.0% in 2008.  The $0.9 million increase in year-over-year
operating earnings includes $3.1 million of unfavorable currency translation.

Snap-on Tools Group

Segment net sales of $252.4 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $20.8 million, or 7.6%, from 2007
levels. Excluding $12.2 million of unfavorable currency translation, sales
declined 3.1% year over year reflecting a more challenging sales environment,
particularly for sales of higher-priced products and hand tools.  Sales in the company’s U.S. franchise
operations declined 5.0% year over year despite a slight increase in the number
of vans in the quarter, while organic sales in the company’s international
franchise operations were up slightly.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Segment gross profit of $105.1 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $20.0 million, or 16.0%, from 2007
levels.  The $20.0 million gross profit
decline primarily reflects the impacts of lower sales, $6.3 million of higher
year-over-year LIFO-related inventory valuation expense ($0.3 million of
LIFO-related expense in 2008, as compared to $6.0 million of LIFO-related
benefits in 2007), $5.7 million of currency translation, and $4.7 million of
higher production and material costs. 
These decreases to gross profit were partially offset by contributions
from higher pricing.  Operating expenses
of $85.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 improved $3.3 million from 2007
levels primarily due to $4.7 million of savings from RCI initiatives, $3.0 million
of currency translation, and lower volume-related expenses, partially offset by
$2.8 million of higher restructuring costs. 
As a result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $19.8
million in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $16.7 million from 2007 levels
and, as a percentage of net sales, declined from 13.4% in 2007 to 7.8% in
2008.  The $16.7 million decline in
year-over-year operating earnings includes $2.7 million of unfavorable currency
translation.

Diagnostics & Information Group

Segment net sales of $152.9 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $16.6 million, or 9.8%, from 2007 levels
primarily due to lower OEM program sales in Europe, $7.1 million of currency
translation, and lower sales at Business Solutions, including expected lower
sales from the planned exit of certain non-core product lines.  These sales declines were partially offset by
higher sales of diagnostics products in North America and increased sales of

Mitchell1

information products. Excluding currency
translation, organic sales declined 5.6% year over year.

Segment gross profit of $71.4
million in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined $4.4 million, or 5.8%, from 2007
levels.  The $4.4 million gross profit
decline primarily reflects the impacts of lower sales, $2.1 million of currency
translation, $1.4 million of increased software costs and $0.3 million of
higher restructuring costs, partially offset by $0.7 million of savings from
RCI initiatives.  Operating expenses of
$37.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 improved $11.3 million from 2007
levels primarily due to a $5.4 million adjustment of a pre-acquisition
contingency acquired with the Business Solutions acquisition in 2006, $2.3
million of savings from RCI initiatives, $2.1 million of currency translation,
and lower volume-related expenses.  As a
result of these factors, segment operating earnings of $34.3 million in the
fourth quarter of 2008 increased $6.9 million from 2007 levels and, as a
percentage of net sales improved from 16.2% in 2007 to 22.4% in 2008.  The $6.9 million year-over-year increase in
operating earnings was not impacted by currency translation.

Financial Services

Segment operating income in the
fourth quarter of 2008 was $8.9 million on $19.7 million of revenue, as
compared with $8.0 million of operating income on revenue of $19.0 million in
2007.  Origination volume in 2008 was
down 12.8% from 2007 levels, but lower market discount rates enabled the
year-over-year improvement in operating income. 
Originations totaled $121.5 million in 2008, as compared to $139.4
million in 2007.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Corporate

Snap-on’s
general corporate expenses of $4.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008
declined $9.2 million from $13.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The $9.2 million expense decline primarily
reflects $5.0 million of lower performance-based incentive compensation and
$4.3 million of lower stock-based incentive compensation in 2008.

Fiscal 2007 vs. Fiscal 2006

Results of operations for the fiscal
years ended December 29, 2007 (fiscal 2007), and December 30, 2006
(fiscal 2006), are as follows:

NM:  Not meaningful

Percentage
Disclosure:  Cost of goods sold, Gross
profit and Operating expenses percentages are calculated as a percentage of Net
sales.  Financial services expenses and
Operating income from financial services percentages are calculated as a
percentage of Financial services revenue. 
All other income statement line item percentages are calculated as a
percentage of the sum of Net sales and Financial services revenue.

Net sales in 2007 increased $386.1
million, or 15.7%, from 2006 levels, including $84.0 million from currency
translation.  Sales in the Commercial &
Industrial Group increased $158.6 million, or 13.3%, year over year, primarily
due to higher sales of professional tools and equipment in Europe, increased
industrial sales, and continued strong sales growth in emerging markets.  Sales in the Snap-on Tools Group increased
$82.7 million, or 8.1%, from prior-year levels, primarily driven by a 6.3%
increase in North American sales and continued strong growth in international
sales.  In the Diagnostics &
Information Group, sales were up $144.4 million, or 28.5%, from 2006 levels,
primarily due to sales from the November 28, 2006, acquisition of Business
Solutions, partially offset by lower sales due to the wind down of an OEM
facilitation program in Europe, and by lower sales as a result of outsourcing
certain products previously manufactured and sold to the Snap-on Tools Group.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Gross profit
in 2007 was $1,266.6 million, as compared to $1,079.8 million in 2006.  The $186.8 million improvement in 2007 gross
profit primarily reflects benefits from the higher sales, $40.6 million of
savings from ongoing RCI initiatives, and $30.9 million of currency
translation.  These increases were
partially offset by $22.5 million of increased production and material costs
and $6.6 million of higher year-over-year restructuring costs.  As a percentage of net sales, gross profit
improved from 44.0% in 2006 to 44.6% in 2007.

Operating
expenses in 2007 were $964.2 million, as compared to $930.0 million in
2006.  The $34.2 million increase in
operating expenses includes $62.1 million of higher year-over-year operating
expenses for Business Solutions (twelve months of operating expense in 2007
versus approximately five weeks of post-acquisition operating expense in 2006),
$22.2 million of unfavorable currency translation, higher volume-related
expenses, and increased spending for expansion in emerging markets.  These increases in year-over-year operating
expenses were largely offset by the absence, in 2007, of a $38.0 million
franchisee litigation settlement charge recorded in 2006, higher benefits of
$11.5 million from ongoing RCI initiatives, $6.4 million of gains from the sale
of facilities and $2.0 million of lower restructuring costs.  As a percentage of net sales, operating
expenses of 33.9% were significantly improved from 2006 levels.

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further information on the franchisee litigation settlement.

Interest expense of $46.1 million in
2007 was up from $20.6 million in 2006 primarily due to higher debt levels to
finance the Business Solutions acquisition.

Other income (expense) – net was
income of $5.5 million in 2007 as compared to income of $5.3 million in
2006.  Other income (expense) – net
includes interest income and hedging and currency exchange rate transaction
gains and losses.  See Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other income (expense) –
net.

Snap-on’s
effective income tax rate on earnings before equity earnings and minority
interests was 32.5% in 2007, as compared with 31.1% in the prior year.  See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on income taxes.

Net earnings from continuing
operations in 2007 were $189.2 million, or $3.23 per diluted share.  Net earnings from continuing operations in
2006 were $97.9 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, including a $23.4 million
after-tax charge ($0.40 per diluted share) related to the resolution of the
franchisee litigation settlement.  Net
earnings in 2007 were $181.2 million, or $3.09 per diluted share, as compared
to net earnings of $100.1 million, or $1.69 per diluted share, in 2006. Results
of operations for 2007 include a full year of operating results for Business
Solutions; results of operations for 2006 include approximately five weeks of
post-acquisition operating results for Business Solutions.

Exit and Disposal Activities

See Note 7 to the Consolidated

Financial Statements for
information on Snap-on’s exit and disposal activities.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Segment Results

Commercial & Industrial
Group

Segment net sales in 2007 increased $158.6 million,
or 13.3%, from 2006 levels due to $101.4 million of higher sales and $57.2
million of currency translation.  The
$101.4 million sales increase primarily reflects higher sales of professional
tools and equipment in Europe, increased industrial sales and continued strong
sales growth in emerging markets.

Segment gross profit of $483.5
million in 2007 was up $47.8 million over 2006 levels primarily due to higher
sales, $24.6 million of savings from ongoing RCI initiatives, and $20.7 million
of currency translation.  These increases
were partially offset by $14.4 million of increased production and material
costs and $8.4 million of higher restructuring costs.  Operating expenses of $352.0 million in 2007
were up $22.5 million from 2006 levels, but improved 160 basis points as a
percentage of segment sales.  The
increase in year-over-year operating expenses primarily includes $15.2 million
of currency translation, higher volume-related expenses, increased investment
spending to further expand the company’s sales and manufacturing presence in
emerging growth markets and lower-cost regions, and $3.1 million of higher
restructuring costs.  These increases in
operating expenses were partially offset by $5.4 million of gains on the sale
of facilities in Europe and $3.1 million of savings from ongoing RCI
initiatives.  As a result of these
factors, segment operating earnings in 2007 increased $25.3 million from 2006
levels.  As a percentage of segment net
sales, including the impact of $11.5 million of higher restructuring costs in
2007, operating earnings for the Commercial & Industrial Group
improved from 8.9% in 2006 to 9.7% in 2007.

Snap-on Tools Group

NM:  Not meaningful

Segment net sales in 2007 increased $82.7 million, or
8.1%, from 2006 levels primarily driven by a 6.3% increase in North American
franchise sales, including higher sales from a new mid-tier product offering
and the re-launch of the company’s in-house warehouse distribution program, as
well as the impacts of lower levels of franchisee turnover and product
returns.   Sales in the company’s international
franchise operations increased 15.3% year over year primarily due to continued
strong growth in the United Kingdom and Australia.  Currency translation contributed $18.0
million of the segment’s year-over-year sales increase.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Segment gross profit of $489.5
million in 2007 was up $41.8 million from 2006 levels primarily due to the
higher sales and lower costs, including $15.9 million of benefits from ongoing
RCI initiatives and $7.1 million of currency translation.  These improvements to gross profit were
partially offset by $7.0 million of higher production and material costs.  Operating expenses of $364.4 million in 2007
were down $45.7 million from prior-year levels primarily due to the absence of
the $38.0 million franchisee litigation settlement charge recorded in 2006,
lower spending of $4.4 million in 2007 related to the company’s strategic
supply chain and franchise system initiatives, $3.3 million of lower bad debt
expense, and $3.2 million of lower restructuring costs.  These decreases in operating expenses were
partially offset by $4.2 million of currency translation and higher
volume-related expenses.  As a result of
these factors, operating earnings in 2007 for the Snap-on Tools Group increased
$87.5 million from 2006 levels and, as a percentage of segment net sales,
improved from 3.7% in 2006 to 11.3% in 2007.

Diagnostics &
Information Group

Segment net sales in 2007 of $650.6 million increased
$144.4 million, or 28.5%, from 2006 levels primarily due to $179.0 million of
higher sales in 2007 from Business Solutions (twelve months of sales in 2007
versus approximately five weeks of post-acquisition sales in 2006) and higher
sales of diagnostics and information products. 
Currency translation contributed $11.8 million of the year-over-year
sales increase.  These increases were
partially offset by approximately $35 million of lower sales due to the wind
down of an OEM facilitation program in Europe, and by lower sales from the
outsourcing of certain non-strategic, low-margin diagnostics equipment products
previously manufactured and sold to the Snap-on Tools Group.

Segment gross profit of $293.6 million in 2007 was up
$97.2 million from 2006 levels primarily due to the higher sales and a more
favorable product mix.  As a percentage
of segment net sales, gross profit margin of 45.1% in 2007 improved
significantly from 38.8% in 2006. 
Operating expenses of $194.1 million were up $57.5 million from 2006
levels primarily due to $62.1 million of higher operating expenses for Business
Solutions (twelve months of operating expense in 2007 versus approximately five
weeks of post-acquisition operating expense in 2006), partially offset by $7.3
million of savings from ongoing RCI initiatives.  As a result of these factors, operating
earnings for the Diagnostics & Information Group in 2007 increased
$39.7 million from 2006 levels and, as a percentage of segment net sales,
improved from 11.8% in 2006 to 15.3% in 2007.

Financial Services

Financial services operating income
in 2007 was $22.4 million on $63.0 million of revenue, as compared with $13.0
million of operating income on $49.0 million of revenue in 2006.  The increase in operating income primarily
reflects the impact of higher net yields and lower borrowing costs.  Originations of $539.6 million in 2007 were
essentially flat with prior-year levels.

Corporate

Snap-on’s general
corporate expenses of $53.7 million in 2007 were essentially flat with the $53.8
million incurred in 2006.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Snap-on’s
growth has historically been funded by a combination of cash provided by
operating activities and debt financing. 
Snap-on believes that its cash from operations, coupled with its sources
of borrowings, are sufficient to fund its anticipated requirements for working capital,
capital expenditures, restructuring activities, acquisitions, common stock
repurchases and dividend payments.  Due
to Snap-on’s credit rating over the years, external funds have been available
at a reasonable cost.  As of the close of
business on February 13, 2009, Snap-on’s long-term debt and commercial
paper was rated A3 and P-2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A- and A-2 by
Standard & Poor’s.  As of the
date of this Form 10-K, the credit and financial markets are in a period
of substantial instability and uncertainty that is affecting the availability
of credit to borrowers.  Snap-on believes
that its current credit arrangements are sound and that the strength of its
balance sheet affords the company the financial flexibility to respond to both
internal growth opportunities and those available through acquisitions.  In light of the current state of the credit
and financial markets, however, the company cannot provide any assurances of
the availability of future financing or the terms on which it might be
available.

The following
discussion focuses on information included in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

As of January 3, 2009, working capital (current assets
less current liabilities) of $593.2 million increased $45.0 million from $548.2
million as of December 29, 2007, including $22.8 million of higher levels
of “Cash and cash equivalents.”

The
following represents the company’s working capital position as of
January 3, 2009, and December 29, 2007.

Accounts receivable at the end of
2008 was $522.1 million, down $64.8 million from year-end 2007 levels.  The $64.8 million decline includes $38.6
million of currency translation and $26.2 million of lower receivables,
primarily due to lower year-over-year fourth quarter sales.  Days sales outstanding at year-end 2008 was
64 days, as compared to 73 days at year-end 2007.

Inventories of $359.2 million at
year-end 2008 were up $36.8 million from year-end 2007 levels, including $55.7
million of higher inventories partially offset by $18.9 million of currency
translation.  The $55.7 million inventory
increase primarily reflects the impacts of lower than expected sales and higher
levels of inventory to support targeted growth initiatives in certain existing
and emerging markets.  The year-over-year
inventory increase also reflects the impact of higher inventory costs in 2008
as a result of inflationary and commodity cost increases.  Inventory turns (full year cost of goods sold
divided by the average of the beginning and ending inventory balances for the
year) were 4.6 turns at year-end 2008, as compared to 4.9 turns at year-end 2007.  Inventories accounted for using the first-in,
first-out (“FIFO”) method as of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, approximated 64% and 65%, respectively, of total inventories.  All other inventories are accounted for using
the LIFO cost method.  The company’s LIFO
reserve increased from $75.0 million at December 29, 2007, to $83.3
million at January 3, 2009.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Accounts payable at January 3,
2009, was $126.0 million, down $45.6 million from year-end 2007 levels primarily
due to lower production levels, the timing of payments and $6.3 million of
unfavorable currency translation.

Notes
payable and long-term debt as of January 3,
2009, was $515.4 million.  As of
December 29, 2007, notes payable and long-term debt was $517.9
million.  Notes payable and current
maturities of long-term debt of $12.0 million at January 3, 2009, included $10.6 million of notes payable and
$1.4 million of current maturities of long-term debt.  No commercial paper was outstanding at January 3, 2009, or December 29,
2007.  Long-term debt of $503.4 million
as of January 3, 2009, included
$150 million of unsecured floating rate notes that mature on January 12,
2010, $200 million of unsecured 6.25% notes that mature in 2011, $150 million
of unsecured 5.50% notes that mature in 2017, and $3.4 million of other
long-term debt.  The weighted-average
interest rate on the $150 million of unsecured floating rate notes was 3.82% in
2008 and the interest rate on these notes as of January 3, 2009, was 4.88%.  The company has begun consideration of
alternatives for addressing the debt maturities that will occur over the next
several years.

Average
commercial paper and notes payable outstanding were $68.1 million in 2008 and
$124.9 million in 2007.  The weighted-average
interest rate on these instruments was 4.33% in 2008 and 5.59% in 2007.  As of January 3,
2009, the weighted-average interest rate on outstanding notes payable
was 8.32%, as compared to 8.78% at December 29, 2007.

As of January 3, 2009, Snap-on had a five-year, $500 million
multi-currency revolving credit facility that terminates on August 10,
2012.  As of January 3, 2009, no
amounts were outstanding under this revolving credit facility.  The $500 million revolving credit facility’s
financial covenant requires that Snap-on maintain, as of each fiscal quarter
end, (i) a ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus shareholders’
equity of not greater than 0.60 to 1.00; or (ii) a ratio of total debt to
the sum of net income plus interest expense, income taxes, depreciation,
amortization and other non-cash or extraordinary charges for the preceding four
fiscal quarters then ended of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00.  As of January 3, 2009, the company’s
ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus shareholders’ equity was
0.30, which is in compliance with the covenants of this revolving credit
facility.

As of January 3, 2009, Snap-on also had $20
million of unused available debt capacity under committed bank lines of
credit.  The committed bank lines consist
of two $10 million lines of credit that expire on July 28, 2009, and
August 30, 2009, respectively.  As
of January 3, 2009, Snap-on had
$520 million of unused available debt capacity under the terms of its revolving
credit facility and committed bank lines of credit.

Although the
credit and financial markets are currently in a state of substantial
instability and uncertainty, Snap-on believes that it has sufficient available
committed and uncommitted lines of credit and liquidity facilities to cover its
expected funding needs on both a short-term and long-term basis.  Snap-on manages its aggregate short-term
borrowings so as not to exceed its availability under its revolving credit
facilities and committed lines of credit. 
While the instability of the credit and financial markets has affected
the market for commercial paper issuances and other short-term debt, Snap-on
currently believes that it could access those markets for short-term liquidity
if the need were to arise.  Snap-on
regularly monitors the credit and financial markets and may take advantage of
what it believes are favorable market conditions to issue long-term debt to
further improve its liquidity and capital resources.  Near-term liquidity requirements for Snap-on
include the funding of its investments in capital expenditures and
restructuring activities, payments of dividends and interest, and funding for
share repurchases, if any.  Snap-on also
expects to make contributions of $8.2 million to its foreign pension plans and
$1.3 million to its domestic pension plans in 2009.  Depending on market and other conditions,
Snap-on may elect to make discretionary cash contributions to its domestic
pension plans in 2009.

Snap-on’s
long-term financing strategy is to maintain continuous access to the debt
markets to accommodate its liquidity needs. 
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on Snap-on’s debt and credit facilities.

Since 1999,
CIT has been the exclusive purchaser of the credit and installment financing
contracts originated by SOC in the United States.  Snap-on has been monitoring its relationship
with CIT carefully, particularly in view of the current instability in the
credit markets.  If CIT were to no longer
purchase the credit and installment financing contracts originated by SOC,
Snap-on believes it has, and/or would have access to, alternative means to
finance these contracts, including the use of its existing credit facilities.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

The SOC
joint venture agreement between Snap-on and CIT automatically renews on an
annual basis unless either Snap-on or CIT provides a six month advance
notice of their intent to not renew the agreement.  This advance
notice must be given during the first six months of the calendar
year.  The joint venture agreement also provides for a nine month
transition period in the event the joint venture agreement is not renewed.

The following discussion focuses on information
included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow.

Cash flow provided from operating
activities was $215.0 million in 2008, $231.1 million in 2007, and $203.4 million
in 2006. Depreciation expense was $47.9 million in 2008, $53.5 million in 2007
and $48.5 million in 2006.  The lower
depreciation expense in 2008 primarily reflects the impact of favorable
currency translation partially offset by higher depreciation as a result of
increased capital spending in recent years.

Capital expenditures were $73.9
million in 2008, $61.9 million in 2007 and $50.5 million in 2006.  The increase in 2008 capital expenditures
over 2007 levels included continued higher spending to accelerate the expansion
of the company’s manufacturing capabilities in lower-cost regions and emerging
markets, as well as increased spending to construct a new headquarters and
development facility for Snap-on Business Solutions, the company’s automotive
parts and service information business, which is expected to be completed in
the fourth quarter of 2009.   Capital
expenditures in all three years include higher levels of spending to support
the company’s strategic supply chain and other growth initiatives, including
the installation of new production equipment and machine tooling to enhance
manufacturing and distribution operations, as well as provide ongoing
replacements of manufacturing and distribution equipment.  Capital spending over the last three years
also included spending for the replacement and enhancement of the company’s
existing global enterprise resource planning (ERP) management information
systems, which will continue over a period of several years. Snap-on believes
that its cash generated from operations, as well as the funds available from
its credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund the company’s capital
expenditure requirements in 2009.

Amortization expense was $24.1
million in 2008, $22.2 million in 2007 and $3.4 million in 2006.  The increase in amortization expense over
2006 levels is primarily due to the amortization of intangibles from the
November 2006 acquisition of Business Solutions.  See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on acquired intangible assets.

On March 5, 2008, Snap-on
acquired a 60% interest in Wanda Snap-on, a tool manufacturer in China, for a
cash purchase price of $15.4 million (or $14.1 million, net of cash acquired),
including $1.2 million of transaction costs. 
The acquisition of Wanda Snap-on is part of the company’s ongoing
strategic initiatives to further expand its manufacturing presence in emerging
growth markets and lower-cost regions.

The Wanda Snap-on joint venture
agreement granted a redeemable minority interest right to the minority
shareholder that could require Snap-on to acquire the minority interest at a
purchase price of either 64.9 million Chinese yuan (approximately $9.5 million
at year-end 2008 exchange rates) or 75.7 million Chinese yuan (approximately
$11.1 million at year-end 2008 exchange rates) if certain financial metrics (as
defined in the joint venture agreement) are reached during the five-year period
subsequent to the acquisition date.

On January 12, 2007, Snap-on
sold $300 million in floating and fixed rate notes consisting of $150 million
of floating rate notes and $150 million of fixed rate notes.  Snap-on used the proceeds from the sales of
these notes, net of $1.5 million of transaction costs, to repay commercial
paper obligations issued to finance the November 2006 acquisition of
Snap-on Business Solutions.

Snap-on has undertaken stock
repurchases from time to time to offset dilution created by shares issued for
employee and dealer stock purchase plans, stock options, and other corporate
purposes, as well as to repurchase shares when the company believes market
conditions are favorable.  In 2008,
Snap-on repurchased 1,230,000 shares of common stock for $69.8 million under
its previously announced share repurchase programs.  The cash used to repurchase shares of common
stock was partially offset by $41.7 million of proceeds from stock purchase
plans and stock option exercises and $5.7 million of related excess tax
benefits.  As of January 3, 2009,
Snap-on had remaining availability to repurchase up to an additional $117.2
million in common stock pursuant to Board authorizations.  The purchase of Snap-on common stock is at
the company’s discretion, subject to prevailing financial and market
conditions.  Snap-on repurchased
1,860,000 shares of common stock for $94.4 million in 2007 and 2,616,618 shares
of common stock for $109.8 million in 2006. Snap-on believes that its cash
generated from operations, as well as the funds available from its credit
facilities, will be sufficient to fund the company’s share repurchases, if any,
in 2009.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Snap-on has paid consecutive
quarterly cash dividends, without interruption or reduction, since 1939.  Cash dividends paid in 2008, 2007 and 2006
totaled $69.7 million, $64.8 million and $63.6 million, respectively.  On November 1, 2007, the Board increased
the quarterly cash dividend by 11.1% to $0.30 per share ($1.20 per share per
year).




Cash
  dividends paid per common share

$

1.20

$

1.11

$

1.08

Cash dividends paid as a percent of prior-year

retained earnings

5.4%

5.5%

5.6%

Snap-on believes that its cash
generated from operations, as well as the funds available from its credit
facilities, will be sufficient to pay dividends in 2009.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Except as set forth below in the
section labeled “Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, the company had no off-balance sheet
arrangements as of January 3, 2009.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

A summary of Snap-on’s future
contractual obligations and commitments as of January 3, 2009, are as
follows:

The company has
excluded payments related to its pension and
postretirement benefit plans from the contractual obligation table above;
see Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
on the company’s benefit plans and payments.  The contractual obligation table above does
not include income tax liabilities recorded in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48

“Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes: an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109;”

see
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on income
taxes.

Environmental Matters

Snap-on is subject to various federal, state and local government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  Snap-on’s policy is to comply with these requirements and the company believes that, as a general matter, its policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with its business.  Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of Snap-on’s operations and products, as it is with other compan
ies engaged in similar businesses.

Snap-on is and has been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies.  The company believes that, as a general matter, its handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accordance with environmental laws and regulations.  It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question the company’s handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

Consolidated Joint Venture

SOC, a consolidated, 50%-owned joint venture
between Snap-on and CIT, provides a broad range of financial services to
Snap-on’s U.S. franchisee and customer network and to Snap-on’s industrial and
other customers.  Snap-on and CIT have
identical voting and participation rights and responsibilities in SOC.

See Note 1 to the Consolidated

Financial Statements
for further information on

SOC.

Snap-on receives royalty and management
fee income from SOC based on the volume of financings originated by SOC.  Snap-on also shares ratably with CIT in any
residual net profit or loss of the joint venture after operating expenses,
including royalty and management fees, interest costs and credit loss
provisions.  Snap-on provides
extended-term financing internationally through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries.

SOC sells substantially all of its
originated contracts on a limited recourse basis to CIT, net of certain fees,
and SOC continues to service these contracts for an estimated servicing
fee.  SOC originated contracts totaling
$424.2 million in 2008, $422.7 million in 2007 and $426.8 million in 2006.

CIT and Snap-on have agreed to lend
funds to support SOC’s working capital requirements on a 50/50 basis.  As of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, no amounts were loaned to SOC by either Snap-on or CIT pursuant to this
agreement.

Financial information regarding SOC
loan originations is as follows:

The SOC joint venture agreement
between Snap-on and CIT automatically renews on an annual basis unless
either Snap-on or CIT provides a six month advance notice of their intent
to not renew the agreement.  This advance notice must be given during
the first six months of the calendar year.  The joint venture
agreement also provides for a nine month transition period in the event the
joint venture agreement is not renewed.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on new accounting standards.

Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates

The consolidated financial statements and related
notes contain information that is pertinent to management’s discussion and
analysis.  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  These estimates are generally based on
historical experience, current conditions and on various other assumptions that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other sources, as well as
identifying and assessing our accounting treatment with respect to commitments
and contingencies.  Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

The company’s significant
accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Snap-on considers the following policies and
estimates to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are
involved in the preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements
and the uncertainties that could impact the company’s financial position,
results of operations and cash flows.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Revenue Recognition:

Snap-on recognizes revenue from the
sale of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions when contract terms are met,
collectibility is reasonably assured and a product is shipped or risk of
ownership has been transferred to and accepted by the customer.  For sales contingent upon customer acceptance
or product installation, revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations
are fulfilled.  Estimated product returns
are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of sale based upon
historical product return experience and gross profit margin adjusted for known
trends.  Provisions for customer volume
rebates, discounts and allowances are also recorded as a reduction of reported
revenues at the time of sale based on historical experience and known trends.  Revenue related to maintenance and
subscription agreements is recognized over the term of the agreement.

Snap-on also recognizes revenue
related to multiple element arrangements, including sales of software and
software-related services.  When a sales
arrangement contains multiple elements, such as hardware and software products
and/or services, Snap-on uses vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of
fair value to allocate revenue to each element based on its relative fair value
and, when necessary, uses the residual method to assign value to the delivered
elements when VSOE only exists for the undelivered elements.  Snap-on limits the amount of revenue
recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the
future delivery of products or services. 
The amount assigned to future delivery of products or services is
recognized when the product is delivered and/or when the services are
performed.  In instances where the
product and/or services are performed over an extended period, as is the case
with subscription agreements or the providing of ongoing support, revenue is
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement,
which generally ranges from 12 to 60 months.

Financial Services Revenue:

Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing
programs that include (i) loans to franchisees; (ii) loans to
franchisees’ customers; and (iii) loans to Snap-on’s industrial and other
customers for the purchase of tools and equipment on an extended-term payment
plan.  These financing programs are
offered through SOC, a consolidated 50%-owned joint venture with CIT, and
Snap-on’s wholly owned international finance subsidiaries. Financial services
revenue consists of SOC’s sales of originated contracts to CIT and service fee
income, as well as installment contract revenue and franchisee loan receivable
revenue derived from SOC and Snap-on’s wholly owned international finance
operations.  The decision to finance
through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the election of the
customer.  When assessing customers for
potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay
including financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment
experience and credit bureau information. 
Contracts originated by SOC and subsequently sold to CIT are also
subject to the underwriting approval of CIT.

Financing revenue from SOC is
recognized primarily from the sale of originated contracts to CIT.  SOC continues to service these contracts
based on an estimated servicing fee. 
Servicing fees are paid to SOC by CIT and such revenue is recognized
over the contractual term of the loan, with a portion of the servicing fee
recognized at the time of origination. Financing revenue from originated loans
that are retained is recognized over the life of the contract, with interest
computed on a daily basis.

Snap-on’s wholly owned international
finance subsidiaries own the loans originated through their financing programs.
Revenue from interest income is recognized over the life of the contract, with
interest computed on a daily basis.

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal,
non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and
business training and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized
as the fees are earned.

Internally Developed Software:

Costs incurred in the development
of software that will ultimately be sold are capitalized from the time
technological feasibility has been attained and ceases when the related product
is ready for general release. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company
capitalized $9.7 million, $10.6 million and $5.0 million, respectively, of
such costs.  Amortization of capitalized
software development costs was $8.2 million in 2008, $4.9 million in 2007, and
$2.5 million in 2006.  Unamortized
capitalized software development costs were $25.5 million at January 3,
2009, and $24.0 million at December 29, 2007.

Impairment of Goodwill and Other
Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are
tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired.  Annual impairment tests are performed by the
company in the second quarter of each fiscal year.

Snap-on
evaluates the recoverability of goodwill by estimating the future discounted
cash flows of the businesses to which the goodwill relates.  Estimated cash flows and related goodwill are
grouped at the reporting unit level.  A
reporting unit is an operating segment, or under certain circumstances, a
component of an operating segment that constitutes a business. When
estimated future discounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the
net assets and related goodwill, an

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

impairment test is performed to
measure and recognize the amount of the impairment loss, if any.  Impairment losses, which are limited to the
carrying value of goodwill, represent the excess of the carrying amount of a
reporting unit’s goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill.  In determining the estimated future cash flows,
Snap-on considers current and projected future levels of income, as well as
business trends, prospects and market and economic conditions. Impairment tests
involve the use of judgmental estimates related to the fair market value of the
business operations with which goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible
assets are associated, taking into consideration both historical operating
performance and anticipated financial position and future earnings, discounted
by the company’s weighted average cost of capital.

Snap-on cannot predict the
occurrence of certain events that might adversely affect the carrying value of
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.  Should the operations of the businesses with
which goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are associated incur
significant declines in profitability and cash flow in future years due to
significant adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators,
unanticipated competition, loss of key customers, and/or changes in technology
or markets, some or all of the recorded goodwill or intangibles could be
subject to impairment.  See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on goodwill and other
intangible assets.

Impairment of Long-lived and Amortized
Intangible Assets:

Snap-on performs impairment
evaluations of its long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets with finite lives, whenever business conditions or events
indicate that those assets may be impaired. 
When the estimated future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the
assets are less than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the assets
are written down to fair market value and a charge is recorded to current
operations.

Significant and unanticipated changes in
circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate, adverse
actions by regulators, unanticipated competition, loss of key customers and/or
changes in technology or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a
future period.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:

Snap-on evaluates the
collectibility of receivables based on a combination of various financial and
qualitative factors that may affect customers’ ability to pay.  These factors may include customers’
financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment
experience and credit bureau information. 
Snap-on does not believe that accounts receivable represent significant
concentrations of credit risk because of its diversified portfolio of
individual customers and geographical areas.

Snap-on regularly reviews the
accounts receivable allowance estimation process and adjusts the allowances as
appropriate.  In circumstances where the
company is aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial
obligations, a specific reserve is recorded against amounts due to reduce the
net recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be
collected.  Additional reserves are
established based upon the company’s perception of the quality of the current
receivables, including the length of time the receivables are past due, past
experience of collectibility and underlying economic conditions.  If the financial condition of the company’s
customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payments, additional reserves would be required.

Excess and Obsolete Inventory:

Snap-on records allowances for
excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future demand
and market conditions.  Allowances for
raw materials are largely based on an analysis of raw material age and actual
physical inspection of raw material for fitness for use.  As part of evaluating the adequacy of
allowances for work-in-progress and finished goods, management reviews individual
product stock-keeping units (SKUs) by product category and product life
cycle.  Cost adjustments for each product
category/product life-cycle state are generally established and maintained
based on a combination of historical experience, forecasted sales and
promotions, technological obsolescence, inventory age and other actual known
conditions and circumstances.  Should
actual product marketability and raw material fitness for use be affected by
conditions that are different from management estimates, further adjustments to
inventory allowances may be required.

Warranty:

Snap-on’s policy is to record a
liability for the expected cost of warranty-related claims at the time of
sale.  The amount of warranty liability
accrued reflects management’s best estimate of the expected future cost of
honoring the company’s obligations under its warranty plans.  Snap-on calculates its accrual requirements
based on historic warranty loss experience that is periodically adjusted for
recent actual experience, including the timing of claims during the warranty
period and actual costs incurred.  If
actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly
from our estimates, adjustments to cost of sales may be required in future
periods.  See Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information on warranty.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Stock-based Compensation:

Snap-on recognizes the cost
of employee services in exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the
grant-date fair value of those awards (with limited exceptions).  That cost, based on the estimated number of
awards that are expected to vest, is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the period during which the employee is required to provide the service in
exchange for the award.  No compensation
cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite
service.  The grant-date fair value of
employee share options and similar instruments is estimated using the
Black-Scholes valuation model.

The Black-Scholes valuation model requires the input
of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the stock-based award
and stock price volatility.  The
assumptions used are management’s best estimates, but the estimates involve
inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment.  As a result, if other assumptions had been
used, the recorded stock-based compensation expense could have been materially
different from that depicted in the financial statements.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on stock-based compensation.

Pension Benefits:

The pension benefit obligation and
related pension expense are calculated in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 87,

“Employer’s Accounting for
Pensions,”

and are impacted by certain actuarial assumptions.  Changes in these assumptions are primarily
influenced by factors outside of Snap-on’s control and can have a significant effect
on the amounts reported in the financial statements.  Snap-on believes that the two most critical
assumptions are (i) the expected return on plan assets; and (ii) the
assumed discount rate.

Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets
decreases.  Lowering the expected rate of
return assumption for Snap-on’s domestic pension plan assets by 0.5% would have
increased Snap-on’s 2008 domestic pension expense by approximately $3.6
million.  Snap-on uses a three-year,
market-related value asset method of amortizing the difference between actual
and expected returns on its U.S. plan assets.

The objective of Snap-on’s discount rate assumption is to reflect the
rate at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled.  In making
this determination, the company takes into account the timing and amount of
benefits that would be available under the plans.  The methodology for
selecting the discount rate as of year-end 2008 was to match the plan’s cash
flows to that of a theoretical bond portfolio yield curve that provides the
equivalent yields on zero-coupon bonds with an Aa rating or better for each
maturity.  The selection of the 6.3% weighted-average discount rate for
Snap-on’s domestic pension plans represents the single rate that produces the
same present value of cash flows as the estimated benefit plan payments.
Lowering Snap-on’s domestic discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have
increased Snap-on’s 2008 domestic pension expense and projected benefit
obligation by approximately $0.8 million and $40.3 million, respectively. At
year-end 2008, Snap-on’s domestic projected benefit obligation comprised
approximately 85% of Snap-on’s worldwide projected benefit obligation.

Actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of
the projected benefit obligation or market-related value of assets are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of
active participants.  Prior service costs
resulting from plan amendments are amortized in equal annual amounts over the
average remaining service period of affected active participants or over the
remaining life expectancy of affected retired participants.  See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on pension benefits.

Postretirement Benefits:

Snap-on’s postretirement benefits obligation
and related expense are calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 106,

“Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,”

and are impacted by certain actuarial assumptions, including health
care trend rates.  An increase of one
percentage point in health care costs would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation by $1.5 million and would increase the annual
service and interest cost by $0.1 million. 
A corresponding decrease of one percentage point would decrease the
accumulated postretirement benefit by $1.4 million and decrease the annual
service and interest cost by $0.1 million. 
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on postretirement plans.

Income Taxes:

Snap-on records deferred income tax
assets and liabilities for differences between the book basis and tax basis of
the related net assets.  Snap-on records
a valuation allowance, when appropriate, to reduce its deferred tax assets if
it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
will not be realized.  While the company
has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax
strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if these
estimates and assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to
adjust its valuation allowance.  This
could result in a charge to, or an increase in, income in the period such
determination is made.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)

In addition, the company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions
and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. 
The company records accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits
and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each
matter.  See Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information on income taxes.

Outlook

The challenges posed by the global economy increased
significantly during the fourth quarter, furthering the impact on Snap-on’s
sales of higher priced products, such as tool storage and vehicle repair
equipment. Additional slowdowns in the economies of Europe, particularly
Southern Europe, negatively impacted volume at the company’s European-based
tools business. Furthermore, the general economic difficulties are now
spreading across more industries and to additional geographies, creating more
widespread pressure on business activity. In the near term, Snap-on anticipates
no change in this environment and, as a result, expects sales and credit
originations in the first quarter of 2009 to be down year over year.

Additional headwinds in 2009 now include approximately $3.0
million per quarter of higher year-over-year pension expense due to declines in
pension asset values. Assuming foreign currency exchange rates remain at recent
levels, the company also anticipates approximately $8.0 million of unfavorable
foreign exchange impact on first quarter operating earnings.

Snap-on believes that its business models are sound and that
it continues to maintain and expand its strong brand positions. When coupled
with its innovation processes, Snap-on believes that these strengths have
enabled the advancement of its market position in 2008. The company expects to
benefit from those strengths in 2009 and to improve its strategic position
going forward. Snap-on also expects further benefits in 2009 from its RCI,
sourcing and other cost reduction initiatives that will help to limit the
impact of any volume decline.

Snap-on does not, as a general practice, furnish quarterly
sales or earnings projections. However, in light of these factors and
conditions, the company believes that first quarter 2009 sales and earnings
will be lower than reported first quarter 2008 amounts.

Snap-on is responding to the global macroeconomic challenges
by deepening and accelerating its RCI and cost reduction initiatives. Snap-on
recorded $6.7 million of restructuring costs in the fourth quarter of 2008,
bringing full-year 2008 restructuring costs to $14.7 million; Snap-on expects
to incur approximately $12 million to $16 million of restructuring costs in full
year 2009. Snap-on is also continuing and accelerating a number of its planned
growth investments, including further expansion of its manufacturing capacity
in China and in Eastern Europe. As a result, capital expenditures in 2009 are
expected to be in a range of $75 million to $80 million. Snap-on views these
investments as potentially enabling near-term growth. For full year 2009,
Snap-on anticipates that its effective income tax rate on earnings before
equity earnings and minority interests will approximate 34%.

In 2009, Snap-on will continue to aggressively manage the
balance between investing and capturing growth opportunities with the need for
cost reduction actions beyond those already implemented; the current economic
uncertainty makes it extremely difficult to presently predict this balance as
the company continually adjusts to the challenging business environment.


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market, Credit and Economic
Risks

Market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse
changes in the fair value of financial instruments.  Snap-on is exposed to market risk from
changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.  Snap-on monitors its exposure to these risks
and attempts to manage the underlying economic exposures through the use of
financial instruments such as interest rate swap, foreign exchange and treasury
lock agreements.  Snap-on does not use
derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  Snap-on’s broad-based business activities
help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related
areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole.  Snap-on’s management takes an active role in
the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that
require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the
identification, assessment and control of various risks.

Foreign Currency Risk Management

Snap-on has
significant international operations and is subject to certain risks inherent
with foreign operations that include currency fluctuations and restrictions on
movement of funds. Foreign exchange risk exists to the extent that Snap-on has
payment obligations or receipts denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency.  To manage these
exposures, Snap-on identifies naturally offsetting positions and then generally
purchases hedging instruments to protect the residual net exposures.

See Note 10 to the
Consolidated

Financial Statements for information on
foreign currency risk management.

Interest Rate Risk Management

Snap-on’s
interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential
volatility of earnings that could arise from changes in interest rates.  Through the use of interest rate swaps,
Snap-on aims to stabilize funding costs by managing the exposure created by the
differing maturities and interest rate structures of Snap-on’s assets and liabilities.
Snap-on also enters into treasury lock agreements to manage the risk associated
with changing benchmark interest rates on its extended contract installment
loans that are sold to CIT.

See Note 10 to the
Consolidated

Financial Statements for information on
interest rate risk management.

Snap-on utilizes a Value-at-Risk
(“VAR”) model to determine the potential one-day loss in the fair value of its
interest rate and foreign exchange-sensitive financial instruments from adverse
changes in market factors.  The VAR model
estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence
level.  Snap-on’s computations are based
on the inter-relationships among movements in various currencies and interest
rates (variance/co-variance technique).  These inter-relationships were determined by
observing interest rate and foreign currency market changes over the preceding
quarter.

The estimated
maximum potential one-day loss in fair value, calculated using the VAR model,
at January 3, 2009, was

$1.2 million
on interest rate-sensitive financial instruments and $1.9 million on foreign
currency-sensitive financial instruments. 
The VAR model is a risk management tool and does not purport to
represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by Snap-on, nor
does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Credit Risk

Credit risk is
the possibility of loss from a customer’s failure to make payments according to
contract terms.  Prior to granting
credit, each customer is evaluated, taking into consideration the borrower’s
financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment
experience, credit bureau information, and other financial and qualitative
factors that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay.  Specific credit reviews and standard industry
credit scoring models are used in performing this evaluation. Loans that have
been granted are typically monitored through an asset-quality-review process
that closely monitors past due accounts and initiates collection actions when
appropriate.  In addition to its direct
credit risk exposure, Snap-on also has credit risk exposure for certain SOC-originated
contracts for franchisee van loans with recourse to Snap-on.  At January 3, 2009, $15.4 million of
loans originated by SOC have a recourse provision to Snap-on if the loans
become more than 90 days past due.

For additional information on SOC,
refer to the section entitled “Consolidated Joint Venture” in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Counterparty Risk

Snap-on is
exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by the counterparties
to various financial agreements, including its interest rate swap, foreign
exchange and treasury lock agreements. 
Snap-on does not obtain collateral or other security to support
financial instruments subject to credit risk, but monitors the credit standing
of the counterparties and enters into agreements only with financial
institution counterparties with a credit rating of A- or better. Snap-on does
not anticipate non-performance by its counterparties.

Economic Risk

Economic risk is the possibility of loss resulting
from economic instability in certain areas of the world.  Snap-on continually monitors its exposure in
these markets.

As a result of the above market,
credit and economic risks, net income and revenues in any particular period may
not be representative of full-year results and may vary significantly from year
to year.  Inflation has not had a
significant impact on the company.

Commodity
Risk

The company is a purchaser of certain commodities such as steel, natural
gas and electricity.  The company is also
a purchaser of components and parts that are integrated into the company’s
end products, as well as the purchaser of certain finished goods, all of
which may contain various commodities including steel, aluminum and others.  Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and
purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous
suppliers.

The principal raw material used in
the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive,
price-sensitive markets.  To meet Snap-on’s
high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which
are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity
types of alloys.  These raw materials
have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality.  Some of these materials have been, and in the
future may be, in short supply.  As some
steel alloys require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience
inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on
short notice.  Additionally, unexpected
price increases could result in higher prices to our customers or an erosion of
the margins on our products.

We believe our
ability to sell our products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the
road, the number of miles driven and the general aging of vehicles.  These factors affect the frequency, type and
amount of service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and
therefore affect the demand for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the
technicians and, subsequently, the demand the technicians have for our tools,
other products and services, and the value they place on those products and
services.  To the extent that gasoline
prices increase, consumers may turn to other, non-gasoline based, methods of
transportation, including more frequent use of public transportation.  A decrease in the use of gasoline consuming
vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

To the extent that commodity prices increase and the company does not
have firm pricing agreements with its suppliers, the company may experience
margin declines to the extent that it is not able to increase the selling
prices of its products.

Item 8:
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and schedules are listed on page 53
and are incorporated by reference in this Item 8.

Item 9: Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A: Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Snap-on maintains a system of disclosure controls and
procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that material
information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is timely
communicated to the officers who certify Snap-on’s financial reports and to
other members of senior management and the Board, as appropriate.

In accordance with Rule 13a-15(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the company’s management
evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company’s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of January 3, 2009.  Based upon their evaluation of these
disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of January 3, 2009, to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time period
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the
reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control

There has not been
any change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended January 3, 2009, that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over
financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)).

Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).  Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

.  Based on this assessment, the company’s
management believes that, as of January 3,
2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.  The company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of January 3, 2009,
has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report, which is
included herein.

Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over
financial reporting will prevent all error or fraud.  Because of inherent limitations, a system of
internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance
and may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting may vary over time.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Snap-on Incorporated:

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Snap-on Incorporated
and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 3,
2009, based on criteria established in

Internal
Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We conducted
our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.  Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of
the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over
financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion,
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of January 3,
2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal
Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of
and for the year ended January 3,
2009, of the Company and our report dated February 18, 2009,
expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

/s/ Deloitte &
Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 18, 2009


SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

Item 9B: Other Information

None.

PART III

Item
10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Incorporated
by reference to sections entitled “Item 1: Election of Directors,” “Corporate
Governance Practices and Board Information” and “Other Information” in Snap-on’s
2009 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, which is expected to be mailed to
shareholders on or around March 11, 2009 (the “2009 Proxy Statement”).

The Section 16(a) filing compliance disclosure
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is contained in Snap-on’s 2009 Proxy
Statement in the section entitled “Other Information – Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance,” and is incorporated herein by reference.

The
executive officers of Snap-on, their ages, and their titles as of January 3, 2009, and positions held
during the last five years are listed below.

Nicholas T. Pinchuk

(62) – President and Chief Executive
Officer since December 2007 and President and Chief Operating Officer from
April to December 2007.  Senior
Vice President and President – Worldwide Commercial & Industrial Group
from June 2002 to April 2007. 
Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Pinchuk was President of Global
Refrigeration Operations for Carrier Corporation, a producer of air
conditioning, heating and refrigeration systems, and a subsidiary of United
Technologies Corporation.

Martin M. Ellen

(55) – Senior Vice President – Finance and Chief
Financial Officer since November 2002.

Iain Boyd

(46) – Vice President – Human
Resources since February 2007.  Vice President, Human Resources –
Snap-on Tools Group from February 2004 to February 2007.

Constance R. Johnsen

(51) – Vice President and
Controller since October 2003, and Director, Corporate Financial Reporting
from July 2000 to October 2003.

Thomas L

.

Kassouf

(56) – Senior Vice President and President – Commercial Division since December 2007.  President – Commercial Group from April 2007
to December 2007, and President – Equipment Worldwide from January 2003
to April 2007.

Jeanne M. Moreno

(54) – Vice President and Chief Information Officer
since March 2005.  Prior to joining
Snap-on, Ms. Moreno was Senior Vice President of Corporate Services and
Chief Information Officer for Citrix Systems, a leader in access infrastructure
software.

Irwin M. Shur

(50) – Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary since April 2008. 
Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Shur was Vice President and General
Counsel of Enodis plc, a manufacturer of equipment for the commercial
foodservice industry.

Thomas J. Ward

(56)

–

Senior Vice
President and President – Snap-on Tools Company LLC since April 2007.  Senior Vice President and President –
Diagnostics & Information Group from March 2005 to April 2007,
and President – Worldwide Diagnostics from July 2001 to February 2005.

There is no family
relationship among the executive officers and there has been no involvement in
legal proceedings during the past five years that would be material to the
evaluation of the ability or integrity of any of the executive officers.
Executive officers may be elected by the Board or appointed by the Chief
Executive Officer at the regular meeting of the Board that follows the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting, which is ordinarily held in April each year, and at
such other times as new positions are created or vacancies must be filled.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Code of Ethics and Web Site Disclosure

Snap-on has
adopted a written code of ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Controller, and all other financial
officers and executives performing similar functions.  Snap-on has posted a copy of the code of
ethics in the Investors/Corporate Governance section on the company’s Web site
at

www.snapon.com

.  Shareholders
may request a copy of the code of ethics in print, free of charge, by written
request directed to the Corporate Secretary, 2801 80

th

Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin 53143.  Snap-on will also post any amendments to
these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or
executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on
the company’s Web site at

www.snapon.com

.

Snap-on
intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of Form 8-K
regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the code of ethics by posting such
information in the Investors section of its corporate Web site at

www.snapon.com

.

Item 11: Executive Compensation

The
information required by Item 11 is contained in Snap-on’s 2009 Proxy Statement
in the sections entitled “Executive Compensation,” “Board Compensation,” “Compensation
Committee Report,” and “Other Information” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters

The following table sets forth
information about Snap-on’s equity compensation plans as of January 3, 2009:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

The
additional information required by Item 12 is contained in Snap-on’s 2009 Proxy
Statement in the sections entitled “Executive Compensation,” “Security
Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Other Information”
and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence

Incorporated by
reference to the sections entitled “Corporate Governance Practices and Board
Information – Board Information” and “Other Information – Transactions with the
Company” in Snap-on’s 2009 Proxy Statement.

Item 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Incorporated by
reference to the section entitled “Deloitte & Touche LLP Fee
Disclosure” in Snap-on’s 2009 Proxy Statement.

PART IV

Item 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15(a): Documents Filed as Part of This Report:

1.  List of Financial Statements

The following
consolidated financial statements of Snap-on and the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm thereon, are filed as part of this report:

2. 
Financial Statement Schedules

All
schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or the required
information is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.

3.  List of Exhibits

The exhibits
filed with or incorporated by reference in this report are as specified in the
exhibit index on pages 95 through 97 herein.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of

Snap-on Incorporated:

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Snap-on Incorporated
and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders’ equity
and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended January 3, 2009.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements.  An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Snap-on Incorporated and subsidiaries as of
January 3, 2009, and December 29, 2007, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 3, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.

As described
in Notes 1, 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
recognized the funded status of its defined benefit plans as of December 30,
2006.

We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of January 3, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report
dated February 18, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Deloitte &
Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 18, 2009


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Consolidated Statements of Earnings

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Consolidated Balance Sheets

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’
Equity and Comprehensive Income

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1:

Summary of
Accounting Policies

Principles of
consolidation and presentation:

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Snap-on Incorporated (“Snap-on” or “the company”), its wholly-owned
and majority-owned subsidiaries, and Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), a 50%-owned
joint venture with The CIT Group, Inc. (“CIT”).  Investments in affiliates over which the
company has a greater than 20% but less than 50% ownership interest are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The consolidated financial
statements do not include the accounts of the company’s independent
franchisees.  Snap-on’s consolidated
financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”).  All intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated.

Fiscal year
accounting period:

Snap-on’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest December 31.  The 2008 fiscal year, which ended on January 3,
2009, contained 53 weeks of operating results, with the additional week
occurring in the fourth quarter.  The
impact of the additional week of operations on full-year 2008 net sales and
operating earnings was not material.  The
2007 and 2006 fiscal years each contained 52 weeks and ended on December 29,
2007, and December 30, 2006, respectively.

Use of estimates:

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Revenue recognition:

Snap-on recognizes revenue from the
sale of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions when contract terms are met,
collectibility is reasonably assured and a product is shipped or risk of
ownership has been transferred to and accepted by the customer.  For sales contingent upon customer acceptance
or product installation, revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations
are fulfilled.  Estimated product returns
are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of sale based upon
historical product return experience and gross profit margin adjusted for known
trends.  Provisions for customer volume
rebates, discounts and allowances are also recorded as a reduction of reported
revenues at the time of sale based on historical experience and known trends.  Revenue related to maintenance and
subscription agreements is recognized over the term of the agreement.

Snap-on also recognizes revenue
related to multiple element arrangements, including sales of software and
software-related services.  When a sales
arrangement contains multiple elements, such as hardware and software products
and/or services, Snap-on uses vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of
fair value to allocate revenue to each element based on its relative fair value
and, when necessary, uses the residual method to assign value to the delivered
elements when VSOE only exists for the undelivered elements.  Snap-on limits the amount of revenue
recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the
future delivery of products or services. 
The amount assigned to future delivery of products or services is
recognized when the product is delivered and/or when the services are
performed.  In instances where the
product and/or services are performed over an extended period, as is the case
with subscription agreements or the providing of ongoing support, revenue is
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement,
which generally ranges from 12 to 60 months.

Franchise fee revenue, including nominal,
non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and
business training and marketing and product promotion programs), is recognized
as the fees are earned.

Financial services revenue:

Snap-on also generates revenue from
various financing programs that include (i) loans to franchisees; (ii) loans
to franchisees’ customers; and (iii) loans to Snap-on’s industrial and
other customers for the purchase of tools and equipment on an extended-term
payment plan.  These financing programs
are offered through SOC, a consolidated 50%-owned joint venture with CIT, and
Snap-on’s wholly owned international finance subsidiaries. Financial services
revenue consists of SOC’s sales of originated contracts to CIT and service fee
income, as well as installment contract revenue and franchisee loan receivable
revenue derived from SOC and Snap-on’s wholly owned international finance
operations.  The decision to finance
through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the election of the
customer.  When assessing customers for
potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay
including financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment
experience and credit bureau information. 
Contracts originated by SOC and subsequently sold to CIT are also
subject to the underwriting approval of CIT.

Financing revenue from SOC is
recognized primarily from the sale of originated contracts to CIT.  SOC continues to service these contracts
based on an estimated servicing fee.  Servicing
fees are paid to SOC by CIT and such revenue is recognized over the contractual
term of the loan, with a portion of the servicing fee recognized at the time of
origination.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Financing revenue from originated
loans that are retained is recognized over the life of the contract, with
interest computed on a daily basis.

Snap-on’s wholly owned international
finance subsidiaries own the loans originated through their financing programs.
Revenue from interest income is recognized over the life of the contract, with
interest computed on a daily basis.

Research and
engineering:

Research and engineering costs are charged to operating expense in the year
incurred.  For 2008, 2007 and 2006,
research and engineering costs totaled $43.3 million, $47.6 million and $44.0
million, respectively.

Internally developed software

: Costs related to the development
of software that will ultimately be sold are capitalized from the time
technological feasibility has been attained and capitalization ceases when the
related product is ready for general release, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs
of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.”  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, Snap-on
capitalized $9.7 million, $10.6 million and $5.0 million, respectively, of such
costs.  Amortization of capitalized
software development costs, which is included in “Cost of goods sold” on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings, was $8.2 million in 2008,
$4.9 million in 2007, and $2.5 million in 2006. 
Unamortized capitalized software development costs of $25.5 million at January 3,
2009, and $24.0 million at December 29, 2007, are included in “Other
intangibles – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Internal-use software:

In accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”)
98-1,

“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,”

costs that are incurred
internally in creating software solutions and enhancements to those solutions
are expensed until technological feasibility has been established.

Shipping and
handling:

Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included as a
component of sales. Costs incurred by Snap-on for shipping and handling are
included as a component of cost of goods sold when the costs relate to
manufacturing activities.  In 2008, 2007
and 2006, Snap-on incurred shipping and handling charges of $32.6 million,
$26.7 million and $21.5 million, respectively, that were recorded in “Cost of
goods sold” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  Shipping and handling costs incurred in
conjunction with selling or distribution activities are included as a component
of operating expenses.  In 2008, 2007 and
2006, Snap-on incurred shipping and handling charges of $59.8 million, $67.6
million and $66.3 million, respectively, that were recorded in “Operating
expenses” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Advertising and
promotion:

Production costs of future media advertising are deferred until the advertising
occurs.  All other advertising and
promotion costs are expensed when incurred. 
For 2008, 2007 and 2006, advertising and promotion expense totaled $59.0
million, $58.9 million and $56.3 million, respectively.

Warranties:

Snap-on provides product warranties
for specific product lines and accrues for estimated future warranty costs in
the period in which the sale is recorded. 
See Note 15 for further information on warranties.

Equity earnings,
net of tax and minority interests:

“Equity earnings, net of tax and minority interests”
on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings is comprised of the
following:

Minority interests in consolidated
subsidiaries of $22.3 million as of January 3, 2009, and $17.3 million as
of December 29, 2007, are included in “Other long-term liabilities” on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Investments in unconsolidated
affiliates of $35.2 million as of January 3, 2009, and $30.7 million as of
December 29, 2007, are included in “Other assets” on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Foreign currency
translation:

The financial statements of Snap-on’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars in accordance with SFAS No. 52,

“Foreign Currency Translation.”

Assets and liabilities of foreign
subsidiaries are translated at current rates of exchange, and income and
expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.  The resulting translation adjustments are
recorded directly into “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Foreign exchange transactions resulted in pretax losses of $1.3 million
in 2008, $1.7 million in 2007, and $1.2 million in 2006.  Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses
are reported in “Other income (expense) - net” on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Earnings.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Income
taxes:

In the ordinary course of business there is
inherent uncertainty in quantifying income tax positions.  Snap-on assesses income tax positions and
records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s
evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the
reporting dates.  For those tax positions
where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, Snap-on
records the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of
being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full
knowledge of all relevant information. 
For those income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that
a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized in the financial
statements.  When applicable, associated
interest and penalties are recognized as a component of income tax expense.  Accrued interest and penalties are included
within the related tax liability on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Deferred income
taxes are provided for temporary differences arising from differences in bases
of assets and liabilities for tax and financial reporting purposes. 
Deferred income taxes are recorded on temporary differences using enacted tax
rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to
reverse.  The effect of a change in tax
rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the
period that includes the enactment date. 
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the
opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
See Note 8 for further information on income taxes.

Per share data:

Basic earnings per share
calculations were computed by dividing net earnings by the corresponding
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period.  The dilutive effect of the potential exercise
of outstanding options to purchase common shares is calculated using the
treasury stock method.  Snap-on had
dilutive shares for the fiscal years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006, of 620,611
shares, 731,442 shares and 911,697 shares, respectively.  Options to purchase 540,462 shares, 493,544
shares and 23,000 shares of Snap-on common stock for the fiscal years ended
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share as the exercise prices of the options were greater
than the average market price of the common stock for the respective year and,
as a result, the effect on earnings per share would be anti-dilutive.

Stock-based compensation:

Snap-on recognizes the cost of employee services in exchange for awards of
equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards (with
limited exceptions).  That cost, based on
the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to
provide the service in exchange for the award. 
No compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not
render the requisite service.  The
grant-date fair value of employee share options and similar instruments is
estimated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

The Black-Scholes valuation model requires the input
of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the stock-based award
and stock price volatility.  The
assumptions used are management’s best estimates, but the estimates involve
inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment.  As a result, if other assumptions had been
used, the recorded stock-based compensation expense could have been materially
different from that depicted in the financial statements.  See Note 13 for further information on stock-based
compensation.

Derivatives:

Snap-on utilizes derivative
financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
contracts and treasury lock agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate
and foreign currency exchange rate risks. 
Snap-on accounts for its derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133,

“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,”

as amended by SFAS No. 138,

“Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities,”

and SFAS No. 149,

“Amendment
of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

Snap-on does not hold or issue financial
instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  See Note 10 for further information on
derivatives.

Concentrations:

Snap-on is exposed to credit losses
in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its interest rate
swap, foreign exchange and treasury lock agreements.  Snap-on does not obtain collateral or other
security to support its financial instruments subject to credit risk, but
monitors the credit standing of the counterparties and enters into agreements
only with financial institution counterparties with a credit rating of A- or
better.  Snap-on does not anticipate non-performance
by its counterparties.

Approximately
3,000 employees, or 26%, of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by
unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements.  Approximately 1,400 employees are covered
under agreements expiring in 2009. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced
any significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

Cash equivalents:

Snap-on considers all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.  Cash equivalents are stated
at cost, which approximates market value.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  (continued)

Accounts
receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts:

Snap-on evaluates the
collectibility of receivables based on a combination of various financial and
qualitative factors that may affect customers’ ability to pay.  These factors may include customers’
financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience
and credit bureau information.  Snap-on
does not believe that accounts receivable represent significant concentrations
of credit risk because of the diversified portfolio of individual customers and
geographical areas.

Snap-on regularly reviews the accounts
receivable allowance estimation process and adjusts the allowances as
appropriate.  In circumstances where the
company is aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial
obligations, a specific reserve is recorded against amounts due to reduce the
net recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be
collected.  Additional reserves are
established based upon the company’s perception of the quality of the current
receivables, including the length of time the receivables are past due, past
experience of collectibility and underlying economic conditions.  If the financial condition of the company’s
customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payments, additional reserves would be required.

Inventories:

Snap-on values its inventory at the
lower of cost or market and adjusts for the value of inventory that is
estimated to be excess, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. Snap-on records
allowances for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated
future demand and market conditions. 
Allowances for raw materials are largely based on an analysis of raw
material age and actual physical inspection of raw material for fitness for
use.  As part of evaluating the adequacy
of allowances for work-in-progress and finished goods, management reviews
individual product stock-keeping units (SKUs) by product category and product
life cycle.  Cost adjustments for each
product category/product life-cycle state are generally established and maintained
based on a combination of historical experience, forecasted sales and
promotions, technological obsolescence, inventory age and other actual known
conditions and circumstances.  Should
actual product marketability and raw material fitness for use be affected by
conditions that are different from management estimates, further adjustments to
inventory allowances may be required.

Snap-on adopted the “last-in,
first-out” (“LIFO”) inventory valuation method in 1973 for its U.S.
locations.  Snap-on’s U.S. inventories
accounted for on LIFO consist of purchased product and inventory manufactured
at the company’s heritage U.S. manufacturing facilities (primarily hand tools
and tool storage).  As Snap-on began
acquiring businesses in the 1990’s, the company retained the “first-in,
first-out” (“FIFO”) inventory valuation methodology used by the predecessor
businesses prior to their acquisition by Snap-on; the company does not adopt
the LIFO inventory valuation methodology for new acquisitions.  See Note 4 for further information on
inventories.

Property and
equipment:

Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line
basis over estimated useful lives.  Major
repairs that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized, while routine
maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.  Capitalized software included in property and
equipment reflects costs related to internally developed or purchased software
for internal use and is amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated
useful lives.  Long-lived assets are
evaluated for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144,
“

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

.”  See Note
5 for further information on property and equipment.

Goodwill and other
intangible assets:

SFAS No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,”

requires the testing of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, at least annually.  Snap-on evaluates annually, and when
significant changes in expected long-term performance or other events arise,
the existence of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment on
the basis of whether the assets are fully recoverable from projected,
discounted cash flows of the related business unit.  See Note 6 for further information on
goodwill and other intangible assets.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Intangible assets with finite lives
are amortized over their estimated useful lives using straight-line and
accelerated methods depending on the nature of the particular asset.

Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss):

The
components of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” (“AOCI”) on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007
are as follows:

New accounting
standards:

In April 2008 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) released
staff position (“FSP”) SFAS No. 142-3, “

Determination
of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets

.”  The FSP requires entities to disclose
information for recognized intangible assets that enable users of financial statements
to understand the extent to which expected future cash flows associated with
intangible assets are affected by the entity’s intent or ability to renew or
extend the arrangement associated with the intangible asset.  The FSP also
amends the factors an entity should consider in developing the renewal or
extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of recognized
intangible assets under SFAS No. 142, “

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

”  The FSP will
be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the FSP’s
effective date, but the disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively
to all intangible assets recognized as of, and after, the FSP’s effective
date.  The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008, with early adoption prohibited. 
The adoption of SFAS No. 142-3 is not expected to have a
significant effect on the company’s consolidated financial statements.

In March 2008 the FASB released SFAS No. 161,

“Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

SFAS No. 161 requires additional disclosures related to the use of
derivative instruments, the accounting for derivatives and the financial
statement impact of derivatives.  SFAS No. 161 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008.  The adoption of SFAS
No. 161 is not expected to have a significant effect on the company’s
consolidated financial statements.

In December 2007 the FASB released SFAS No. 141(R),

“Business Combinations,”

to establish
accounting and reporting standards to improve the relevance, comparability and
transparency of financial information that an acquirer would provide in its
consolidated financial statements from a business combination.  The provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) will
be effective for Snap-on for all business combinations with an acquisition date
on or after January 4, 2009, the beginning of Snap-on’s 2009 fiscal year;
earlier application is not permitted.

In December 2007 the FASB also released SFAS No. 160,

“Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements — an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,”

which
requires noncontrolling interests in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries
to be classified in the consolidated balance sheet as a separate component of
consolidated shareholders’ equity.  The
amount of net earnings attributable to the controlling and noncontrolling
interests will be included in consolidated net earnings on the face of the
income statement.  SFAS No. 160 also
requires that controlling interests recognize a gain or loss by using the fair
value of the noncontrolling equity investment on the date of
deconsolidation.  SFAS No. 160 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and will be
applied prospectively except for the presentation and disclosure requirements
which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented upon adoption.
The adoption of SFAS No. 160 is not expected to have a significant effect
on the company’s consolidated financial statements.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  (continued)

Effective December 30, 2007,
the beginning of the company’s 2008 fiscal year, Snap-on adopted SFAS No. 157,

“Fair Value Measurements.”

In February 2008 the FASB
issued FSP 157-2, “

Effective Date of FASB
Statement No. 157,”

which provides a one year deferral of the
effective date of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and non-financial
liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed in the financial
statements at fair value at least annually. Therefore, the company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 157 with respect to its financial assets and
liabilities only. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework
for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, expands disclosures about fair value measurements and establishes a
fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority (“Level
1”) to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and
liabilities, and gives the lowest priority (“Level 3”) to unobservable inputs. The
adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a significant effect on the company’s
consolidated financial statements.  See
Note 18 for further information.

Effective December 30, 2007, Snap-on adopted SFAS No. 159,

“The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities,

Including an amendment of
FASB Statement No. 115.”

SFAS No. 159 expands the use of
fair value measurement by permitting entities to choose to measure many
financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not
currently required to be measured at fair value.  Snap-on did not elect the fair value option
for any of its financial assets or liabilities.

Snap-on adopted the recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 158,

“Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans: an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).”

SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to measure the funded
status of a defined benefit plan as of the date of its year-end statement of
financial position, and also requires an employer to initially apply the
requirement to measure defined benefit plan assets and benefit obligations as
of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end statement of financial position
for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008.  As the company had been using the last day of
its fiscal year end as the measurement date for its plans prior to the issuance
of SFAS No. 158, this provision had no impact on the company’s
consolidated financial statements and results of operations.  The impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 in
2006 resulted in a decrease of $89.0 million to “Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)” as shown on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income.  See Notes 11 and 12 for information on the
company’s pension and postretirement plans.

Note 2: Acquisitions

On
March 5, 2008, Snap-on acquired a 60% interest in Zhejiang Wanda Tools
Co., Ltd. (“Wanda Snap-on”), a tool manufacturer in China, for a cash
purchase price of $15.4 million (or $14.1 million, net of cash acquired),
including $1.2 million of transaction costs.  The acquisition of
Wanda Snap-on is part of the company’s ongoing strategic initiatives to further
expand its manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost
regions.

The Wanda Snap-on
joint venture agreement granted a redeemable minority interest right to the
minority shareholder that could require Snap-on to acquire the minority
interest at a purchase price of either 64.9 million  Chinese yuan
(approximately $9.5 million at year-end 2008 exchange rates) or 75.7 million Chinese
yuan (approximately $11.1 million at year-end 2008 exchange rates) if certain
financial metrics (as defined in the joint venture agreement) are reached
during the five-year period subsequent to the acquisition date.

For segment reporting purposes, the
results of operations and assets of Wanda Snap-on are included in the
Commercial & Industrial Group. 
Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the net
effects of the acquisition were not material to Snap-on’s results of operations
or financial position.

On November 28, 2006, Snap-on
acquired the ProQuest Business Solutions business and certain net assets
(collectively, “Snap-on Business Solutions” or “Business Solutions”) from
ProQuest Company for a cash purchase price of $521.7 million (or $512.2 million,
net of cash acquired) and the assumption of approximately $19 million of debt.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Pro forma Information

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the results of
operations of Snap-on as if the Snap-on Business Solutions acquisition had
taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2006. The unaudited pro forma financial
information is not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated
results of operations of Snap-on that would have been reported had the
acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken
as representative of the future consolidated results of operations of Snap-on.

Note 3:
Accounts Receivable

Accounts
receivable include trade accounts, installment and other receivables, including
the current portion of franchisee- financing receivables.  The components of Snap-on’s current accounts
receivable as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

Long-term
accounts receivable is classified in “Other assets” on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets and is comprised of installment and other
receivables, including franchisee-financing receivables, with payment terms
beyond one year.  As of January 3,
2009, long-term accounts receivable totaled $67.3 million, net of unearned
finance charges of $13.4 million.  As of December 29,
2007, long-term accounts receivable totaled $79.9 million, net of unearned
finance charges of $10.7 million.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  (continued)

The following is a rollforward of the allowance for doubtful
accounts for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006:

(1)

Represents write-offs of bad debts and the net impact
of currency translation.

SOC sells
finance receivable loan originations to CIT on a limited recourse basis and
retains the rights to service such loans, for which SOC receives contractual
servicing fees.  SOC recognizes a
servicing asset at the time the loan originations are sold to CIT since the
contractual servicing fee provides SOC with more than adequate compensation for
the level of services provided. 
Contractual servicing fees were $9.2 million for the year ended January 3,
2009, and were $9.3 million for the year ended December 29, 2007.  The servicing asset is amortized to financial
services revenue over the life of the finance receivables.

Servicing
assets are included in “Accounts receivable – net of allowances” in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The following summarizes the activity in servicing assets for the years
ended January 3, 2009, and December 29, 2007:

The SOC joint venture agreement between
Snap-on and CIT automatically renews on an annual basis unless either
Snap-on or CIT provides a six month advance notice of their intent to not
renew the agreement.  This advance notice must be given during the
first six months of the calendar year.  The joint venture
agreement also provides for a nine month transition period in the event
the joint venture agreement is not renewed.

Note 4:
Inventories

Inventories by major classification as of fiscal year-end
2008 and 2007 are as follows:

Inventories
accounted for using the FIFO method as of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, approximated 64% and 65%, respectively, of total inventories.  The company accounts for its non-U.S.
inventory on the FIFO basis.  As of January 3,
2009, approximately 30% of the company’s U.S. inventory was accounted for using
the FIFO basis and 70% was accounted for using the LIFO basis.  LIFO inventory liquidations resulted in a
reduction of “Cost of goods sold” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Earnings of $4.6 million for the year ended December 29, 2007; there were
no LIFO inventory liquidations in 2008.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Note 5: Property and Equipment

Snap-on’s property and equipment
values, which are carried at cost, as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007 are as
follows:

The estimated service lives of
property and equipment are principally as follows:

Buildings and improvements

3 to 50 years

Machinery, equipment and computer
  software

2 to 15 years

Snap-on entered into a 20-year
capital lease for office and distribution facilities in Japan for the Snap-on
Tools Group in 2005.  The current portion
of the capital lease obligation is included in “Other accrued liabilities” and
the long-term portion is included in “Other long-term liabilities” on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The cost and accumulated depreciation for this facility as of fiscal
year-end 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

The year-over-year increase in net
book value reflects the impacts of foreign currency translation partially
offset by current year depreciation.

Depreciation expense was $47.9
million, $53.5 million and $48.5 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.

Note 6: Intangible and Other Assets

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for fiscal 2008
and 2007 are as follows:

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  (continued)

Additional disclosures related to other intangible assets as of fiscal
year-end 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as
significant adverse changes in business climate, loss of key customers and/or
changes in technology or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a
future period.

The weighted-average amortization periods related to other intangible
assets are as follows:

Snap-on is amortizing its customer relationships on an accelerated
basis over a 16 year weighted-average life; the remaining intangibles are
amortized on a straight-line basis.  The
weighted-average amortization period for all amortizable intangibles on a
combined basis is 19 years.

The aggregate amortization expense for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $24.1
million, $22.2 million and $3.4 million, respectively. Based on current levels
of amortizable intangible assets and estimated weighted-average useful lives,

estimated annual
amortization expense is expected to be $23.5 million in 2009, $19.2 million in
2010, $16.6 million in 2011, $13.9 million in 2012, and $10.7 million in 2013.

The company has various insurance
policies on the lives of certain former executive officers.  Snap-on’s investment in these policies is
recorded net of policy loans in “Other assets” on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets.  The policy loans carry a
variable interest rate (currently at 5.52%), require interest only payments
annually, and are collateralized by the cash value of the life insurance
policies.  The interest rate charged on
the policy loans may be adjusted annually based on a corporate bond yield as
published by Moody’s Investors Service. 
A summary of the net cash value of life insurance as of January 3,
2009, and December 29, 2007, is as follows:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Note 7: Exit and Disposal
Activities

Snap-on
recorded costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $14.7 million
and $26.3 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Of the $14.7
million of costs incurred in 2008, $11.9 million qualified for accrual
treatment.  Of the $26.3 million of costs
incurred in 2007, $17.3 million qualified for accrual treatment.  Costs associated with exit and disposal
activities in 2008 primarily related to headcount reductions from (i) the
realignment of the field sales and service organizations in the United States
and Canada; (ii) the consolidation of sales and services support in
Europe; and (iii) various management and other realignment actions at
other Snap-on facilities.

Snap-on’s exit and disposal accrual activity related to 2008
and 2007 actions were as follows:

Since year-end
2007, Snap-on has reduced headcount by approximately 400 employees as part of
its restructuring actions.  While the
majority of the exit and disposal accrual will be utilized in 2009,
approximately $0.2 million of facility-related costs will extend beyond 2009
primarily due to longer-term lease obligations.

Snap-on expects to fund the
remaining cash requirements of its exit and disposal activities with cash flows
from operations and borrowings under the company’s existing credit
facilities.  The estimated costs for the
exit and disposal activities were based on management’s best business judgment
under prevailing circumstances.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  (continued)

Note 8: Income Taxes

The source of earnings before income
taxes, equity earnings and minority interests consisted of the following:

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consisted of the
following:

A reconciliation of the statutory
federal income tax rate to Snap-on’s effective tax rate is as follows:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Temporary differences that give rise to the net deferred income tax
asset as of fiscal year-end 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

At January 3, 2009, Snap-on had tax net operating loss
carryforwards totaling $183.6 million as follows:

A valuation allowance totaling $31.6 million, $35.5 million and $43.7
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, has been established for deferred
income tax assets related to certain subsidiary loss carryforwards that may not
be realized. Realization of the net deferred income tax assets is dependent on
generating sufficient taxable income prior to their expiration. Although
realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that
the net deferred income tax assets will be realized.  The amount of the net deferred income tax
assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if
estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced.

The company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, “

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: an Interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109”

(“FIN 48”), on December 31, 2006, the
beginning of the company’s 2007 fiscal year. 
The company had unrecognized tax benefits of $21.3 million as of the
date of adoption.  Snap-on did not record
any cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as a result of adopting
FIN 48.  As of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, the company had unrecognized tax benefits of $20.6 million and $18.7
million, respectively.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits:

Of the $20.6 million and $18.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits at
the end of 2008 and 2007, approximately $18.1 million and $16.2 million,
respectively, would impact the effective income tax rate if recognized.

Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are
recorded in income tax expense.  During the years ended January 3,
2009, December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006, the company
recognized approximately $0.7 million, $1.2 million and $0.5 million in net
interest expense, respectively.  The
company has provided for approximately $5.1 million, $3.4 million, and $2.2
million of accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits at the end of
fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
The unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest are included
in “Other long-term liabilities” in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

Snap-on and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the United
States and in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions.  Snap-on and its subsidiaries are routinely
examined by tax authorities in certain of these jurisdictions and it is
reasonably possible that some of these examinations may be resolved within the
next 12 months.  Due to the potential
resolution of these global examinations, it is reasonably possible that Snap-on’s
gross unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by a range of zero to $7.4 million
over the next 12 months.

With few exceptions, Snap-on is no longer subject to U.S. federal and
state/local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2004,
and Snap-on is no longer subject to non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax
authorities for years prior to 2002.

The undistributed earnings of all non-U.S. subsidiaries totaled $416.0
million, $338.5 million and $247.4 million at the end of fiscal 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively.  Snap-on has not
provided any deferred taxes on these undistributed earnings as it considers the
undistributed earnings to be permanently invested.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized
deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.

Note 9: Short-term and Long-term Debt

Notes payable and long-term debt as of January 3, 2009, was $515.4
million.  As of December 29, 2007,
notes payable and long-term debt was $517.9 million.  Notes payable and current maturities of
long-term debt of $12.0 million at January 3,
2009, included $10.6 million of notes payable and $1.4 million of
current maturities of long-term debt.  No
commercial paper was outstanding at January 3,
2009, or December 29, 2007. 
Long-term debt of $503.4 million as of January 3, 2009, included $150 million of unsecured floating
rate notes that mature on January 12, 2010, $200 million of unsecured
6.25% notes that mature in 2011, $150 million of unsecured 5.50% notes that
mature in 2017, and $3.4 million of other long-term debt.  The weighted-average interest rate on the
$150 million of unsecured floating rate notes was 3.82% in 2008 and the
interest rate on these notes as of January 3, 2009, was 4.88%.  The company has begun consideration of
alternatives for addressing the debt maturities that will occur over the next
several years.

Average commercial paper and notes payable
outstanding were $68.1 million in 2008 and $124.9 million in 2007.  The weighted-average interest rate on these
instruments was 4.33% in 2008 and 5.59% in 2007.  As of January 3,
2009, the weighted-average interest rate on outstanding notes payable
was 8.32%, as compared to 8.78% at December 29, 2007.

As of January 3, 2009, Snap-on had a
five-year, $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that
terminates on August 10, 2012.  As
of January 3, 2009, no amounts were outstanding under this revolving
credit facility.  The $500


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

million revolving credit facility’s financial
covenant requires that Snap-on maintain, as of each fiscal quarter end, (i) a
ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus shareholders’ equity of not
greater than 0.60 to 1.00; or (ii) a ratio of total debt to the sum of net
income plus interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and
other non-cash or extraordinary charges for the preceding four fiscal quarters
then ended of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00. 
As of January 3, 2009, the company’s ratio of total debt to the sum
of total debt plus shareholders’ equity was 0.30, which is in compliance with
the covenants of this revolving credit facility.

As of January 3, 2009, Snap-on also had
$20 million of unused available debt capacity under committed bank lines of
credit.  The committed bank lines consist
of two $10 million lines of credit that expire on July 28, 2009, and August 30,
2009, respectively.  As of January 3,
2009, Snap-on had $520 million of unused available debt capacity under the
terms of its revolving credit facility and committed bank lines of credit.

CIT and Snap-on have agreed to lend funds to
support SOC’s working capital requirements on a 50/50 basis.  As of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, no amounts were loaned to SOC by either Snap-on or CIT pursuant to this
agreement.

Snap-on’s long-term debt as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007 consisted
of the following:

The annual maturities of Snap-on’s long-term debt due in the next five
years are $1.4 million in 2009, $150.1 million in 2010, $200.0 million in 2011,
and no maturities in 2012 or 2013.

Note 10: Financial Instruments

Derivatives

: Snap-on accounts for its hedging
activities under SFAS No. 133,

“Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,”

as amended by SFAS No. 138
and SFAS No. 149.  These standards
require that all derivative instruments be reported in the consolidated
financial statements at fair value. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are to be recorded each period
in earnings or on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets in “Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss),” depending on the type of hedged transaction
and whether the derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedged
transaction.  Gains or losses on
derivative instruments recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)” must be reclassified to earnings in the period in which earnings are
affected by the underlying hedged item and the ineffective portion of all
hedges must be recognized in earnings in the period such portion is determined
to be ineffective.

Snap-on uses derivative instruments to manage
well-defined interest rate and foreign currency exposures.  Snap-on does not use derivative instruments
for speculative or trading purposes.  The
criteria used to determine if hedge accounting treatment is appropriate are (i) the
designation of the hedge to an underlying exposure; (ii) whether or not
overall risk is being reduced; and (iii) if there is a correlation between
the value of the derivative instrument and the underlying obligation. On the
date a derivative contract is entered into, Snap-on designates the derivative
as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, a hedge of a net investment in a
foreign operation, or a natural hedging instrument whose change in fair value
is recognized as an economic hedge against changes in the values of the hedged
item.

Foreign Currency Derivative
Instruments

: Snap-on has operations in a number of countries that have transactions
outside their functional currencies and, as a result, is exposed to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates.  Snap-on
also has intercompany loans to foreign subsidiaries denominated in foreign
currencies.  Snap-on manages most of
these exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows for netting of certain
exposures to take advantage of natural offsets. Forward exchange contracts are
used to hedge the net exposures.  Gains
or losses on net foreign currency hedges are intended to offset losses or gains
on the underlying net exposures in an effort to reduce the earnings volatility
resulting from fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

At January 3, 2009, Snap-on had $169.2
million of net foreign exchange forward buy contracts outstanding comprised of
buy contracts of $67.4 million in euros, $60.0 million in Swedish kronor, $20.6
million in Australian dollars, $6.5 million in Singapore dollars, $5.4 million
in Canadian dollars, $5.0 million in British pounds, $4.0 million in Norwegian
krone, $1.9 million in Danish kroner, and $2.0 million in other currencies, and
various sell contracts in other currencies totaling $3.6 million.  At December 29, 2007, Snap-on had $156.1
million of net foreign exchange forward buy contracts outstanding comprised of
buy contracts of $65.1 million in Swedish kronor, $44.4 million in euros, $21.8
million in Australian dollars, $16.4 million in British pounds, $3.5 million in
Canadian dollars, $2.7 million in Singapore dollars, and $5.7 million in other
currencies, and various sell contracts in other currencies of $3.5
million.  The majority of Snap-on’s
forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133.  The fair value changes of these contracts are
reported in earnings as foreign exchange gain or loss, which is included in “Other
income (expense) – net” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Earnings.

Interest
Rate Swap Agreements

: Snap-on enters into interest rate swap agreements
to manage interest costs and risks associated with changing interest rates.
Interest rate swap agreements are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or
fair value hedges.  The differentials
paid or received on interest rate swap agreements are recognized as adjustments
to interest expense.  For fair value
hedges, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is
recorded in “Long-term debt” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets,
while any ineffective portion is recorded as an adjustment to “Interest expense”
on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  For cash flow hedges, the effective portion
of the change in fair value of the derivative is recorded in “Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss),” on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets,
while any ineffective portion is recorded as an adjustment to interest
expense.  The notional amount of interest
rate swaps outstanding and designated as fair value hedges was $50 million at
both January 3, 2009, and December 29, 2007.

Treasury Lock
Agreements

:

Snap-on
enters into treasury lock agreements to manage the risks associated with
changing benchmark interest rates on its extended credit installment loans that
are sold to CIT.  Treasury lock
agreements are accounted for as cash flow hedges.  The effective differentials paid or received
on treasury lock agreements are recognized as adjustments to “Financial
services revenue” on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  During 2008, Snap-on settled treasury locks
of $182 million, concurrent with the settlement of extended credit installment
receivables sold to CIT.  The notional
amount of treasury locks outstanding and designated as cash flow hedges was $51
million as of January 3, 2009; there were no treasury locks outstanding as
of December 29, 2007.

Changes in the fair value of derivative
financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting are reflected as
derivative assets or liabilities with the ineffective portion of gains or
losses reflected in earnings in the period of change.  For all fair value hedges qualifying for
hedge accounting, the net accumulated derivative asset at January 3, 2009,
was $3.1 million. At January 3, 2009, the maximum maturity date of any
fair value hedge was three years and the maximum maturity date of any cash flow
hedge was seven months.  During the next
12 months, Snap-on expects to reclassify into earnings net losses from “Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)” of approximately $1.4 million after tax at
the time the underlying hedge transactions are realized.  During the twelve month periods ended January 3,
2009, and December 29, 2007, cash flow hedge and fair value hedge
ineffectiveness was not material.

Counterparty Risk

:

Snap-on is exposed to credit losses
in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its interest rate
swap, foreign exchange and treasury lock agreements.  Snap-on does not obtain collateral or other
security to support financial instruments subject to credit risk, but monitors
the credit standing of the counterparties and enters into agreements only with
financial institution counterparties with a credit rating of A- or better.  Snap-on does not anticipate non-performance
by its counterparties.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

SFAS No. 107,

“Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments,”

requires Snap-on to disclose the fair value of
financial instruments for both on- and off-balance-sheet assets and liabilities
for which it is practicable to estimate that value. The following methods and
assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of financial instruments:

Installment contracts

: A discounted cash flow analysis
was performed over the average life of installment contracts using a current
discount rate adjusted for credit quality, cost and profit factors.  As of January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, the fair value was approximately $148 million and $153 million,
respectively, versus a book value of $115.6 million and $122.6 million,
respectively.

Senior long-term debt

: The fair value of senior long-term debt was
estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on quoted market rates
for similar instruments.  As of January 3,
2009, and December 29, 2007, the fair value was approximately $496 million
and $497 million, respectively, versus a book value of $500.0 million for both
periods.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

All other financial instruments

: The carrying amounts of all cash
equivalents and forward exchange contracts approximate fair value based upon
quoted market prices or discounted cash flows. 
The fair value of trade accounts receivable, accounts payable and other
financial instruments approximates carrying value due to their short-term nature.

Note 11:
Pension Plans

Snap-on has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans
covering most U.S. employees and certain employees in foreign countries.  Snap-on also has foreign contributory defined
benefit pension plans covering certain foreign employees.  Retirement benefits are generally provided
based on employees’ years of service and average earnings or stated amounts for
years of service. Normal retirement age is 65, with provisions for earlier
retirement.  Snap-on recognizes
retirement plan expenses in accordance with SFAS No. 87, “

Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.

”

Snap-on adopted the reporting and
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158 as of December 30, 2006
(fiscal 2006 year end). See Note 1 for further discussion of SFAS No. 158.

The status of
Snap-on’s pension plans as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist of:

The amounts included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”
on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for Snap-on’s pension plans was
$828.7 million and $805.8 million at January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, respectively.

As a result of a dramatic decline in the equity markets in 2008, the
number of Snap-on’s pension benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligations
greater than plan assets increased.  The
projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of
plan assets for Snap-on’s pension plans in which the accumulated benefit
obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end 2008 and
2007 are as follows:

The components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts
recognized in “Other comprehensive income (loss)” (“OCI”) are as follows:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

The amounts in
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” that are expected to be
amortized as net expense during 2009 are as follows:

The worldwide weighted-average assumptions used to determine Snap-on’s
full-year pension costs are as follows:

The worldwide weighted-average assumptions used to determine Snap-on’s
projected benefit obligation as of fiscal year-end 2008 and 2007 are as
follows:



Discount rate

6.2

%

6.3

%

Rate of compensation increase

3.1

%

3.1

%

The objective of Snap-on’s discount rate
assumption is to reflect the rate at which the pension benefits could be
effectively settled.  In making this determination, the company takes into
account the timing and amount of benefits that would be available under the
plans.  The methodology for selecting the discount rate as of year-end 2008
and 2007 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a theoretical bond
portfolio yield curve that provides the equivalent yields on zero-coupon bonds
with an Aa rating or better for each maturity.  The selection of the 6.3%
weighted-average discount rate for Snap-on’s domestic pension plans represents
the single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows as the
estimated benefit plan payments. Lowering Snap-on’s domestic discount rate
assumption by 0.5% would have increased Snap-on’s 2008 domestic pension expense
and projected benefit obligations by approximately $0.8 million and $40.3
million, respectively. At year-end 2008, Snap-on’s domestic projected benefit
obligations comprised approximately 85% of Snap-on’s worldwide projected benefit
obligations.

Actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10
percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or market-related
value of assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average
remaining service period of active participants.  Prior service costs resulting from plan
amendments are amortized in equal annual amounts over the average remaining
service period of affected active participants or over the remaining life
expectancy of affected retired participants.

Snap-on uses the last day of its fiscal year
end as the measurement date for its plans. 
Snap-on funds its pension plans as required by governmental regulation
and may consider discretionary contributions as conditions warrant. Snap-on
expects to make contributions of $8.2 million to its foreign pension plans and
$1.3 million to its domestic pension plans in 2009.  Depending on market and other conditions,
Snap-on may elect to make discretionary cash contributions to its domestic
pension plans in 2009.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service,
are expected to be paid as follows:

Snap-on’s domestic pension plans’ target allocation and actual
weighted-average asset allocation at January 3, 2009, and December 29,
2007, by asset category and fair value of plan assets are as follows:

Snap-on’s domestic pension plans have a long-term investment horizon
and a total return strategy that emphasizes a capital growth objective.  The long-term investment performance
objective for Snap-on’s domestic plan assets is to achieve net of expense
returns that meet or exceed the 8.5% domestic long-term,
rate-of-return-on-assets assumption used for reporting purposes.  Snap-on uses a three-year, market-related
value asset method of amortizing the difference between actual and expected
returns on U.S. plan assets.

The basis for determining the overall expected long-term,
rate-of-return-on-assets assumption is a nominal returns forecasting
method.  For each asset class, future
returns are estimated by identifying the premium of riskier asset classes over
lower risk alternatives.  The methodology
constructs expected returns using a “building block” approach to the individual
components of total return.  These
forecasts are stated in both nominal and real (after inflation) terms.  This process first considers the long-term
historical return premium based on the longest set of data available for each
asset class.  These premiums are then
adjusted based on current relative valuation levels and macro-economic
conditions.

For risk and correlation assumptions, the actual experience for each
asset class is reviewed for the longest time period available.  Expected relationships for a 10 to 20 year
time horizon are determined based upon historical results, with adjustments
made for material changes.  For example,
expected correlations for international equities relative to U.S. equities are
higher than historical averages due to the integration of the global economy.

Investments are diversified to attempt to minimize the risk of large
losses.  Since asset allocation is a key
determinant of expected investment returns, assets are periodically rebalanced
to the targeted allocation to correct significant deviations from the asset
allocation policy that are caused by market fluctuations and cash flow.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Snap-on has adopted a strategic asset allocation policy that is
intended to offer the highest probability of achieving the long-term investment
return goal with the lowest level of risk. 
Asset/liability studies are conducted periodically to determine if any
revisions to the strategic asset allocation policy are necessary.

Snap-on’s foreign pension plans’ target allocation and actual
weighted-average asset allocation by asset category and fair value of plan
assets at January 3, 2009, and December 29, 2007, are as follows:

Snap-on’s primary investment objective for its foreign pension plan
assets is to meet the projected obligations to the beneficiaries over a long
period of time, and to do so in a manner that is consistent with the company’s
risk tolerance.  The foreign asset
allocation policies consider the company’s financial strength and long-term
asset class risk/return expectations, since the obligations are long term in
nature.  The assets are well diversified
and are managed locally by professional investment firms.

The expected long-term rate of return on foreign plan assets reflects
management’s expectations of long-term average rates of return on funds
invested to provide benefits included in the projected benefit
obligations.  The expected return is
based on the outlook for inflation, fixed income returns and equity returns,
while also considering historical returns, asset allocation and investment
strategy.

Snap-on has several 401(k) plans covering certain U.S.
employees.  Snap-on’s employer match to
the 401(k) plans is made with cash contributions.  For 2008, 2007 and 2006, Snap-on recognized
$4.7 million, $4.2 million and $2.7 million, respectively, of expense related
to its 401(k) plans.

Note 12: Postretirement Plans

Snap-on provides certain health care benefits for certain retired U.S.
employees.  The majority of Snap-on’s
U.S. employees become eligible for those benefits if they reach early
retirement age while working for Snap-on; however, the age and service
requirements for eligibility under the plans have been increased for certain
employees hired on and after specified dates since 1992.  Generally, most plans pay stated percentages
of covered expenses after a deductible is met. There are several plan designs,
with more recent retirees being covered under a comprehensive major medical
plan.  In determining benefits, the plans
take into consideration payments by Medicare and other insurance coverage.

For employees retiring under the comprehensive major medical plans,
retiree contributions are required, and these plans contain provisions allowing
for benefit and coverage changes.  The
plans require retirees to contribute either the full cost of the coverage or
amounts estimated to exceed a capped per-retiree annual cost commitment by Snap-on.  Most employees hired since 1994 are required
to pay the full cost.

Snap-on contributed $14.5 million to a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary
Association (“VEBA”) trust in 2007 for the funding of existing postretirement
health care benefits for certain non-salaried retirees in the United States;
all other retiree health care plans are unfunded.

2008 ANNUAL REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Snap-on recognizes postretirement health care expense in accordance with
SFAS No. 106,

“Employers’ Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions.”

Snap-on adopted the reporting and disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 158 as of December 30, 2006 (fiscal 2006
year end).  See Note 1 for further
discussion of SFAS No. 158.

The status of
Snap-on’s U.S. postretirement health care plans is as follows:

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist of:

The amounts included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”
on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

The components of net periodic benefit cost and other
amounts recognized in OCI are as follows:

Snap-on expects to recognize $0.4 million of prior
service cost included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 3, 2009, in net
periodic benefit cost in 2009.

The weighted-average discount rates used to determine
Snap-on’s postretirement health care expense are as follows:




Discount
  rate

6.00

%

5.75

%

5.50

%

The weighted-average discount rates used to determine
Snap-on’s accumulated benefit obligation are as follows:



Discount
  rate

6.3

%

6.0

%

The methodology for selecting the discount rate as of
year-end 2008 and 2007 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a
theoretical bond portfolio yield curve that provides the equivalent yields on
zero-coupon bonds with an Aa rating or better for each maturity.

The actuarial calculation assumes a health care cost
trend rate of 9.0% in 2009, decreasing gradually to 6.0% in 2012 and
thereafter.  As of January 3, 2009,
a one-percentage-point increase in the health care cost trend rate for future
years would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $1.5
million and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost components by
$0.1 million.  Conversely, a
one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate for future
years would decrease the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $1.4
million and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost components by
$0.1 million.

The
following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, are expected
to be paid as follows:

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued)

Note 13: Stock-based
Compensation and Other Stock Plans

The 2001 Incentive Stock and Awards Plan, as
amended (“2001 Plan”), which was approved by shareholders in 2001 and amended
with shareholder approval in 2006, provides for the grant of stock options,
performance share awards, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock
awards.  As of January 3, 2009, the
2001 Plan had 2,791,060 shares available for future grants; the company uses
treasury stock to deliver shares under the 2001 Plan.

The compensation cost charged against income for the
2001 Plan was $13.0 million in 2008, $19.0 million in 2007, and $16.6 million
in 2006.  Cash received from option
exercises under all share-based payment arrangements was $41.7 million in 2008,
$39.2 million in 2007, and $89.5 million in 2006.  The tax benefit realized from the exercise of
the share-based payment arrangements was $10.9 million in 2008, $7.1 million in
2007 and $11.4 million in 2006.

Stock Options

Stock
options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of a share
of common stock on the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten
years.  Grants made prior to 2007 vest
ratably on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant.  Beginning in 2007, most stock option grants
vest ratably on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.

The fair value of each stock option award is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.  The company uses historical data regarding
stock option exercise behaviors for different participating groups to estimate
the expected term of options granted (based on the period of time that options
granted are expected to be outstanding). Expected volatility is based on the
historical volatility of the company’s stock for the length of time
corresponding to the expected term of the option.  The expected dividend yield is based on the
company’s historical dividend payments. 
The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve on
the grant date for the expected term of the option.  The following weighted-average assumptions
were used in calculating the fair value of stock options granted during 2008,
2007 and 2006, using the Black-Scholes valuation model:

A summary of stock option activity as of January 3,
2009, is presented below:

*Weighted-average


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

The weighted-average grant date fair
value of options granted was $10.80 in 2008, $12.17 in 2007, and $10.16 in
2006. The intrinsic value of options exercised was $18.6 million in 2008, $19.3
million in 2007, and $29.7 million in 2006. 
The fair value of stock options vested was $6.4 million in 2008, $4.2
million in 2007, and $3.5 million in 2006.

As of January 3, 2009, there
was $6.0 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
option compensation arrangements granted under the 2001 Plan that is expected
to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a weighted-average period of 1.8
years.

Performance Awards

Performance awards granted pursuant to the 2001
Plan are earned and expensed using the fair value of the performance award over
a contractual term of three years based on the company’s performance.  Vesting of the performance awards is
dependent upon performance relative to pre-defined goals for revenue growth and
return on assets for the applicable contractual term.  For performance achieved above a certain
level, the recipient may earn additional cash units, not to exceed 50% of the
number of performance awards initially awarded. 
Each additional cash unit represents the right to receive cash equal to
the fair market value of a share of Snap-on common stock on the respective date
of grant.

The fair value of each performance award is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.  The company uses the vesting period of the
performance awards as the expected term of performance awards granted.  Expected
volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s stock for the
length of time corresponding to the expected term of the performance
award.  The risk-free interest rate is
based on the U.S. treasury yield curve on the grant date for the length of time
corresponding to the expected term of the performance award.  The following weighted-average assumptions
were used in calculating the fair value of performance awards granted during
the last three years using the Black-Scholes valuation model:

The weighted-average grant date fair
value of performance awards granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $51.75, $50.22
and $39.35, respectively.  Performance
share awards of 91,977 shares were paid out during the fiscal year ended January 3,
2009; no performance share awards were paid out during the fiscal year ended December 29,
2007.  Performance share awards vest only at the end of the
performance-award period.  Vested
performance share awards totaled 180,520 shares as of January 3, 2009, and
80,735 shares as of December 29, 2007; no performance share awards vested
during 2006.  A summary of the status of
the company’s non-vested performance share awards as of January 3, 2009,
and changes during 2008, are as follows:

* Weighted-

average

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued)

As of January 3,
2009, there was approximately $9.5 million of unrecognized compensation
cost related to non-vested performance share awards granted under the 2001 Plan
that is expected to be recognized as a charge to earnings over a weighted-average
period of 1.6 years.

Stock
Appreciation Rights (“SARs”)

The company also issues SARs to certain key non-U.S.
employees.  SARs are granted with an
exercise price equal to the market value of a share of Snap-on’s common stock
on the date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years and, for SARs
granted prior to 2007, vest ratably on the first and second anniversaries of
the date of grant.  Starting in 2007,
SARs granted vest ratably on the first, second and third anniversaries of the
date of grant.  SARs provide for the cash
payment of the excess of the fair market value of Snap-on’s common stock price
on the date of exercise over the grant price. 
SARs have no effect on dilutive shares or shares outstanding as any
appreciation of Snap-on’s common stock value over the grant price is paid in
cash and not in common stock.

The fair value of SARs is remeasured each reporting
period using the Black-Scholes valuation model. 
The company uses historical data regarding SARs exercise behaviors for
different participating groups to estimate the expected term of the SARs
granted based on the period of time that similar instruments granted are
expected to be outstanding.  Expected
volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s stock for the
length of time corresponding to the expected term of the SARs.  The expected dividend yield is based on the
company’s historical dividend payments. 
The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in
effect on the reporting date for the length of time corresponding to the
expected term of the SARs.  The following
weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of SARs
granted during 2008 and 2007 using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

The total intrinsic value of SARs
exercised was $1.7 million and $1.8 million during 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  The total fair value of
SARs vested during 2008 and 2007 was $0.7 million and $1.5 million,
respectively.  A summary of the status of
the company’s non-vested SARs as of January 3, 2009, and changes during
2008, are as follows:

* Weighted-average

As
of January 3, 2009, there was $1.1 million of unrecognized compensation
cost related to non-vested SARs granted under the 2001 Plan that is expected to
be recognized as a charge to earnings over a weighted-average period of 1.8
years.

Restricted
Stock Awards

The company granted awards of 20,895 shares of
restricted stock to members of the Board of Directors (“Board”) during the
fiscal year ended January 3, 2009, pursuant to the 2001 Plan.  All restrictions will lapse upon the
recipient’s termination of service as a director or in the event of a change in
control, as defined in the 2001 Plan.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Directors’ Fee Plan:

Under
the Directors’ 1993 Fee Plan, as amended, non-employee directors may elect up
to 100% of their fees and retainer in shares of Snap-on’s common stock.  Directors may elect to defer receipt of all
or part of these shares.  Issuances under
the Directors’ Fee Plan totaled 3,071 shares in 2008, 2,968 shares in 2007 and
2,999 shares in 2006.  Additionally,
receipt of 5,229 shares, 5,147 shares and 4,101 shares was deferred in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  At January 3,
2009, shares reserved for issuance to directors under this plan totaled 161,235
shares.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan:

Employees of Snap-on are eligible to participate in an employee stock purchase
plan. The employee purchase price of the common stock is the lesser of the mean
of the high and low price of the stock on the beginning date (May 15) or ending
date (the following May 14) of each plan year.  For 2008, 2007 and 2006, issuances under this
plan totaled 19,001 shares, 49,327 shares and 35,227 shares, respectively.  At January 3, 2009, shares reserved for
issuance to employees under this plan totaled 283,343 shares and Snap-on held
contributions of approximately $0.7 million for the purchase of common stock by
employees.  Employees are able to
withdraw from the plan and receive all contributions made during the plan
year.  Compensation expense for plan
participants in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not material.

Dealer Stock Purchase Plan:

Franchisees
are eligible to participate in a dealer stock purchase plan.  The franchisee purchase price of the common
stock is the lesser of the mean of the high and low price of the stock on the
beginning date (May 15) or ending date (the following May 14) of each
plan year.  For 2008, 2007 and 2006,
issuances under this plan totaled 29,857 shares, 43,009 shares and 48,444
shares, respectively.  At January 3,
2009, shares reserved for issuance to franchisees under this plan totaled
200,109 shares and Snap-on held franchisee contributions of approximately $1.1
million for the purchase of common stock by franchisees.  Franchisees are able to withdraw from the
plan and receive all contributions made during the plan year.  Expense for plan participants in 2008, 2007
and 2006 was not material.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan:

Under this plan, participating shareholders
may invest the cash dividends from all or a portion of their common stock to
buy additional shares.  The program also
permits new investors and current shareholders to make additional
contributions.  For 2008, 2007 and 2006,
issuances under the dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan totaled
22,656 shares, 21,730 shares and 25,279 shares, respectively.  At January 3, 2009, shares available for
purchase under this plan totaled 1,564,196 shares.

Note 14: Capital Stock

Snap-on has undertaken repurchases of Snap-on common
stock from time to time to offset dilution created by shares issued for
employee and dealer stock purchase plans, stock options, and other corporate
purposes, as well as to repurchase shares when market conditions are
favorable.  Snap-on repurchased 1,230,000
shares in 2008, following the repurchase of 1,860,000 shares in 2007 and
2,616,618 shares in 2006.  As of the end
of 2008, Snap-on has remaining availability to repurchase up to an additional
$117.2

million in common stock
pursuant to the Board’s authorizations. 
The purchase of Snap-on common stock is at the company’s discretion,
subject to prevailing financial and market conditions.  For 2008,
Snap-on’s average common stock repurchase price was approximately $56.73 per
share.

Cash dividends paid in 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled
$69.7 million, $64.8 million and $63.6 million, respectively.  On November 1, 2007, the Board increased
the quarterly cash dividend by 11.1% to $0.30 per share.  Cash dividends in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were
$1.20 per share, $1.11 per share and $1.08 per share, respectively.

Snap-on created a Grantor Stock Trust (“GST”) in 1998
and sold 7.1 million shares of treasury stock to the GST.  The sale of these shares had no impact on
shareholders’ equity or on Snap-on’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The GST served as a funding mechanism for
certain benefit programs and compensation arrangements, including the 2001 Plan
and employee and dealer stock purchase plans. 
Shares owned by the GST were accounted for as a reduction to
shareholders’ equity until used in connection with employee benefits.  Each period, the shares owned by the GST were
valued at the closing market price, with corresponding changes in the GST
balance reflected in additional paid-in capital.  In fiscal 2007, the
GST distributed all remaining shares of common stock leaving no shares in the
GST.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued)

Note 15: Commitments and Contingencies

Snap-on leases facilities and office
equipment under non-cancelable operating and capital leases that extend for
varying amounts of time.  Snap-on’s
future minimum lease commitments under these leases, net of sub-lease rental
income, are as follows:

Rent expense, net of sub-lease
rental income, for worldwide facilities and office equipment was $33.8 million,
$32.1 million and $26.8 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Snap-on has credit risk exposure for certain
SOC-originated contracts with recourse provisions against Snap-on (primarily
for franchisee van loans).  At January 3,
2009, and December 29, 2007, $15.4 million and $16.1 million of loans,
with terms ranging from six months to seven years, have a primary recourse
provision to Snap-on if the loans become more than 90 days past due.  The asset value of the collateral underlying
these recourse loans would serve to mitigate Snap-on’s loss in the event of
default.  The estimated fair value of the
guarantees for all loan originations with recourse as of January 3, 2009,
was not material.

Snap-on has a multi-year, $4.2 million purchase commitment
with one of its suppliers.

Snap-on provides product warranties for specific
product lines and accrues for estimated future warranty cost in the period in
which the sale is recorded.  Snap-on
calculates its accrual requirements based on historic warranty loss experience
that is periodically adjusted for recent actual experience, including the
timing of claims during the warranty period and actual costs incurred.  The following summarizes Snap-on’s product
warranty accrual activity for 2008, 2007 and 2006:


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

The Wanda Snap-on
joint venture agreement granted a redeemable minority interest right to the
minority shareholder that could require Snap-on to acquire the minority
interest at a purchase price of either 64.9 million Chinese yuan
(approximately $9.5 million at year-end 2008 exchange rates) or 75.7
million Chinese yuan (approximately $11.1 million at year-end 2008
exchange rates) if certain financial metrics (as defined in the joint venture
agreement) are reached during the five-year period subsequent to the
acquisition date.  As of January 3,
2009, Snap-on does not believe that the redeemable minority interest right will
become exercisable.

On May 16, 2006, Snap-on
reached an agreement to settle certain legal matters related to certain then
current and former franchisees on a class basis.  The court gave its final approval to the
class settlement on October 27, 2006. 
Under the terms of the settlement, Snap-on agreed to make payments to
claimants and class counsel, plus incur certain other costs and expenses.  Snap-on recorded a $38.0 million pretax
charge in 2006 representing its best estimate to settle these legal
matters.  Snap-on has not admitted any
wrongdoing by way of this settlement.

Snap-on is involved in various other
legal matters that are being litigated and/or settled in the ordinary course of
business. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal
matters, management believes that the results will not have a material impact
on Snap-on’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

Note 16: Discontinued Operations

On June 29, 2007, Snap-on
sold its Sun Electric Systems (“SES”) business based in the Netherlands to
Duinmaaijer B.V., a limited liability company represented by an employee of
SES, for a nominal cash purchase price.   Snap-on divested of
SES as it deemed SES to be non-core to Snap-on’s ongoing business
strategies.  The anticipated future capital and other resources necessary
to be expended in connection with the SES business were not consistent with
Snap-on’s growth plans.  The sale and
results of operations of SES is reflected in the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Earnings as “Discontinued operations, net of tax.”

The company recorded an after-tax
loss of $8.0 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in 2007 related to the sale
and results of operations of SES.  For segment reporting purposes, the
results of operations of SES were previously included in the Diagnostics &
Information Group.

Note 17: Other Income (Expense)

“Other income (expense) – net” on
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings consists of the following:

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued)

Note 18: Fair Value Measurements

Snap-on has derivative assets and
liabilities that are measured at Level 2 fair value on a recurring basis as
follows:

The fair
values of the derivative assets and liabilities are measured using quoted
prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities.  The short-term derivative assets and
liabilities contain (i) foreign exchange forward contracts that are valued
monthly based on exchange rates quoted by domestic and foreign banks for
similar instruments; and (ii) treasury lock agreements that are valued
monthly using bank benchmark rates for similar instruments.  The long-term interest rate swaps are valued
monthly based on the six-month LIBOR swap rate for similar instruments.  The short-term derivative assets and
liabilities are included in “Prepaid expenses and other assets” and “Other
accrued liabilities,” respectively, and the long-term interest rate swap assets
and liabilities are included in “Other assets” and “Other long-term
liabilities,” respectively, on the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets.  The company did not have any assets or liabilities measured
at Level 1 or Level 3 or implement any changes in its valuation techniques as
of and for the year ended January 3, 2009. 
See Note 10 for additional information on the company’s financial
instruments.

Note 19: Segments

Snap-on’s
business segments are based on the organization structure used by management
for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing
performance.  Snap-on’s reportable
business segments include: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group;
(ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Diagnostics &
Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services.  The Commercial & Industrial Group
consists of the business operations providing tools and equipment products and
equipment repair services to a broad range of industrial and commercial
customers worldwide through direct, distributor and other non-franchise distribution
channels.  The Snap-on Tools Group
consists of the business operations serving the worldwide franchise van
channel.  The Diagnostics &
Information Group consists of the business operations providing diagnostics
equipment, vehicle service information, business management systems, electronic
parts catalogs, and other solutions for vehicle service to customers in the
worldwide vehicle service and repair marketplace. Financial Services consists
of the business operations of SOC and Snap-on’s wholly owned finance
subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise
operations.

Snap-on evaluates the performance of
its reportable segments based on segment revenues and operating earnings.  For the Commercial & Industrial,
Snap-on Tools, and Diagnostics & Information Groups, segment net sales
include both external and intersegment net sales.  Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and
transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups
established between the segments.  Identifiable
assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s
operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred
income taxes, pension assets and certain other assets.  Intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive
at consolidated financial results.


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Neither
Snap-on nor any of its segments, except Financial Services, depend on any
single customer, small group of customers or government for more than 10% of
its revenues.  As a result of SOC’s
relationship with CIT, Snap-on’s Financial Services business segment depends on
CIT for more than 10% of its revenues.

Financial Data by Segment:

* Includes $38.0 million pretax litigation settlement charge.

2008 ANNUAL
  REPORT


Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (continued)

Financial Data by Segment (continued):


SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED

Geographic Regions:

*  Revenue is attributed
to countries based on the origin of the sale.

** Long-lived assets consist of Property and equipment-net,
Goodwill and Other intangibles-net.

Products and Services:

Snap-on
derives net sales from a broad line of products and complementary services that
are grouped into three categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and
repair information; and (iii) equipment. 
The tools category includes Snap-on’s hand tools, power tools, tool
storage units, saws, and cutting and pruning tools product offerings.  The diagnostics and repair information
category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostics products, service and
repair information products, and diagnostic software solutions, including
electronic parts catalogs, business management and other solutions to help
dealerships manage and track performance. 
The equipment category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service
of automotive and industrial equipment. 
Snap-on also derives revenue from financing its products through SOC and
through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries. 
Snap-on utilizes various financing programs to facilitate the sales of
its products.  Further product line
information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so.  The following table shows the consolidated
net sales and revenues of these product groups in the last three years:

2008 Annual Report


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 20: Quarterly Data

(unaudited)


Snap-on
  incorporated

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to
the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Snap-on has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

2008 Annual Report


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of Snap-on and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.


Snap-on
  incorporated

Item 15(b): Exhibit Index

(

*

)

Except for the foregoing, Snap-on
and its subsidiaries have no unregistered long-term debt agreement for which
the related outstanding debt exceeds 10% of consolidated total assets as of January 3,
2009. Copies of debt instruments for which the related debt is less than 10% of
consolidated total assets will be furnished to the Commission upon request.

(10)

Material Contracts

2008 Annual Report



Snap-on
  incorporated

*

Filed electronically or incorporated
  by reference as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of
  any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of
  charge through the SEC’s Web site at

www.sec.gov

. The SEC’s Public
  Reference Room can be contacted at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
  20549, or by calling the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 1-800-732-0330.

**

Represents a management compensatory
  plan or agreement.

2008 Annual Report

97