
10-K405


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

             [ x ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                       OR
              [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission File Number 1-3610

                                   ALCOA INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Pennsylvania                                      25-0317820
  (State of incorporation)                  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Alcoa Corporate Center, 201 Isabella Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212-5858
                (Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip code)

                  Registrant's telephone number--area code 412

                     Investor Relations------------553-3042
                      Office of the Secretary------553-4707

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
     -------------------               -----------------------------------------

 Common Stock, par value $1.00                   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934 during the  preceding  12 months,  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No    .
                                      ----   ----

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

     As of February 17, 2000 there were 371,872,159  shares of common stock, par
value $1.00, of the registrant  outstanding.  The aggregate market value of such
shares,  other than shares held by persons who may be deemed  affiliates  of the
registrant, was approximately $28,450 million.

Documents incorporated by reference.

     Parts  I and  II  of  this  Form  10-K  incorporate  by  reference  certain
information from the registrant's  1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.  Part III
of this Form 10-K  incorporates  by reference the  registrant's  Proxy Statement
dated  February  25, 2000,  except for the  performance  graph and  Compensation
Committee Report.




                                   ALCOA INC.


Formed in 1888 under the laws of the  Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania,  Alcoa Inc.
has its registered office in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania.  The name of the Company
was changed,  effective  January 1, 1999,  from  Aluminum  Company of America to
Alcoa Inc. In this report,  unless the context otherwise requires,  Alcoa or the
Company means Alcoa Inc. and all  subsidiaries  consolidated for the purposes of
its financial statements.


                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business.

Overview
- --------

Alcoa is the world's leading producer of primary aluminum,  fabricated  aluminum
and alumina and a major  participant  in all segments of the  industry:  mining,
refining, smelting,  fabricating and recycling. Alcoa serves customers worldwide
primarily  in the  transportation  (including  aerospace,  automotive,  rail and
shipping),  packaging,  building and industrial  markets with a great variety of
fabricated and finished products.

Alcoa is organized into 25 independently managed business units and has over 228
operating  locations in 32  countries.  Alcoa gives  business unit leaders clear
responsibilities that concentrate authority closer to customers.

The U.S.  remains  the  largest  market  for  aluminum.  Europe,  Asia and Latin
America,  however, present opportunities for substantial growth in aluminum use.
To take advantage of these growth opportunities,  Alcoa has made acquisitions or
formed joint ventures and strategic alliances in key regional markets.

Recent Developments
- -------------------

In August 1999, Alcoa and Reynolds Metals Company (Reynolds) announced that they
had reached a  definitive  merger  agreement  under which Alcoa will acquire all
outstanding  shares  of  Reynolds  in a  tax-free  stock-for-stock  transaction.
Reynolds  shareholders  will  receive 1.06 shares of Alcoa common stock for each
share of Reynolds common stock.

The combined company will have about 127,000  employees and will operate in over
300 locations in 37 countries.  Based on annualized  1999 results,  the combined
company should have annual revenues that exceed $21 billion.

Alcoa and  Reynolds  have  made all of the  requisite  competition  notification
filings with the appropriate U.S. and international governmental authorities. On
February 11,  2000,  the  Reynolds  stockholders  voted to approve and adopt the
merger  agreement.  Completion  of the  merger is  subject  to  satisfaction  of
applicable regulatory requirements.

Market and Geographic Information
- ---------------------------------

Alcoa  serves a  variety  of  customers  in a number  of  markets.  Consolidated
sales from these markets during the past three years were:





Alcoa's Financial Reporting Segments
- ------------------------------------

In accordance  with SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosures  about Segments of an Enterprise
and Related  Information,"  Alcoa reports four worldwide  segments:  Alumina and
Chemicals,  Primary Metals, Engineered Products and Flat-Rolled Products. All of
the  Company's  products  that do not fall into one of those four  segments  are
reported in the category entitled Other. See Note O to the Financial  Statements
for information on segment and related geographic financial information.

I.  Alumina and Chemicals

The Alumina and Chemicals segment includes the production and sale of:
     o    bauxite
     o    alumina
     o    alumina-based  chemicals used  principally in industrial  applications
          and
     o    transportation services for bauxite and alumina.

The segment  consists of a group of  companies  and assets  referred to as Alcoa
World  Alumina and Chemicals  (AWAC).  Alcoa owns 60% and WMC Limited (WMC) owns
40% of the  AWAC  group of  companies.  AWAC has two  businesses  with  distinct
product  lines:  Alcoa World  Alumina (AWA)  produces  smelter grade alumina and
Alcoa Industrial Chemicals (AIC) makes alumina-based chemicals. AWA also has two
geographic regions:  Alcoa World Alumina - Australia (AWA - Australia) and Alcoa
World Alumina - Atlantic (AWA - Atlantic).  Alcoa World Alumina Australia is the
trading name for Alcoa of Australia  Limited (AofA);  all references  throughout
this report will be to AWA - Australia instead of AofA.

Bauxite and Alumina
- -------------------

Bauxite is aluminum's principal raw material. Alcoa refines bauxite into alumina
using a chemical process.  Alcoa processes into alumina most of the bauxite that
it mines. All of the Company's active bauxite interests are part of AWAC, except
in Brazil.



Alcoa is the world's  leading  producer of alumina.  The Company  sells  alumina
principally  from  operations  in Australia,  Jamaica and  Suriname.  Alcoa sold
approximately  53% of its alumina  production in 1999 under supply  contracts to
third  parties  worldwide.  The Company  consumed  the  remainder of its alumina
production in its smelting and industrial chemical operations.  Alcoa negotiates
most of its  alumina  supply  contracts  on the  basis of  agreed  volumes  over
multi-year  periods to assure a continuous  supply to the smelters.  The parties
negotiate the prices  periodically.  Prices may be based on formulas  related to
aluminum ingot market prices or to alumina production costs.

AWA entities and Sino Mining Alumina  Limited (SMAL) have a long-term  agreement
for  the  purchase  of  alumina  for  the  Chinese  aluminum  industry.  SMAL is
ultimately  owned by the China State Nonferrous  Metals Industry  Administration
(SNMIA), a Chinese state-owned  enterprise that has succeeded the China National
Nonferrous Metals Industry Corporation as the entity responsible for the Chinese
aluminum  industry as part of the ongoing  governmental  restructuring in China.
The  agreement  entitles a  subsidiary  of SMAL to purchase a minimum of 400,000
metric tons (mt) of alumina per year for 30 years. The ongoing  restructuring of
SNMIA and the Chinese  aluminum  industry has not impacted this  agreement.  The
SMAL  subsidiary  also has the option to increase  its alumina  purchases as the
needs of the Chinese aluminum industry grow.

In November 1999, Alcoa and China Aluminum Corp. (Chalco) signed a memorandum of
understanding to form a strategic partnership. SNMIA witnessed the memorandum of
understanding.  The  parties  are  negotiating  a master  strategic  partnership
agreement that is expected to involve an association of several Chalco and Alcoa
aluminum production facilities.

Alcoa World Alumina - Australia
- -------------------------------

AWA - Australia's  bauxite mineral lease is due for renewal in 2002, but renewal
options allow AWA - Australia to extend the lease until 2044.

AWA - Australia's  three alumina  refineries,  located in Kwinana,  Pinjarra and
Wagerup, in Western Australia,  have an aggregate annual capacity of 7.3 million
mt at the end of 1999. In October 1999,  AWA - Australia  announced  that it had
completed  its  440,000 mt per year  expansion  of the  Wagerup  refinery.  This
expansion increased Wagerup's production capacity from approximately 1.7 million
mt per year to approximately 2.2 million mt per year. This is the first stage of
a planned  expansion  to 3.3  million  mt per year at  Wagerup,  for which AWA -
Australia has obtained environmental approval.

AWA -  Australia  meets  most  of the  energy  requirements  of  its  Australian
refineries  through a contract with the North West Shelf Gas Joint Venture.  The
contract extends through 2020.

In  May  1999,   AWA  announced   that  it  had  applied  for  a  patent  for  a
high-efficiency  causticization  invention  for  use  in  the  alumina  refining
process.  A research  team at the Kwinana  refinery  developed  the new process,
which  improves  productivity  at a refinery  by  reducing  the amount of sodium
carbonate in the chemical solution for processing the bauxite ore.

AWA - Australia is exploring the  possibility of selling three power stations in
Western  Australia and has requested  bids from  interested  parties.  The three
natural gas-fired  cogeneration  power stations are located within each of AWA -
Australia's three alumina refineries in Western Australia.

Alcoa World Alumina - Atlantic
- ------------------------------

        Suriname

Suriname  Aluminum  Company,  L.L.C.  (Suralco)  mines bauxite in Suriname under
rights  that expire in 2032.  Suralco  also holds a 24%  minority  interest in a
bauxite  mining joint  venture  managed by the



majority  owner,  an  affiliate of Billiton  plc  (Billiton).  Bauxite from both
mining  operations  serves  Suralco's  share of a refinery in Suriname.  Suralco
expects to deplete the current mine  reserves at both  operations  in the period
2005-2010.

Suralco  owns 55% of a 1.7  million mt per year  alumina  refinery  in  Paranam,
Suriname and operates the plant.  An affiliate of Billiton  holds the  remaining
45% interest.

        Jamaica

Bauxite  mining rights in Jamaica expire after the year 2020. The bauxite mining
rights are held in a joint venture (Jamalco) with the Government of Jamaica.  In
January 2000, Jamalco entered into a cost-sharing and  production-sharing  joint
venture with Aluminum Partners of Jamaica to mine the bauxite.

An Alcoa  subsidiary  and a corporation  owned by the  Government of Jamaica are
equal  participants in an alumina  refinery in Clarendon  Parish,  Jamaica.  The
Alcoa subsidiary  manages the joint venture.  At the end of 1999, the refinery's
annual capacity was approximately one million mt.

        Brazil

Alcoa owns 59% of Alcoa Aluminio S.A. (Aluminio). Aluminio manages the operation
of the Alumar Consortium (Alumar), a cost-sharing and production-sharing venture
that  owns  a  large  refining  and  smelting  project  near  Sao  Luis,  in the
northeastern state of Maranhao. For the refining project, Aluminio owns 35.1% of
Alumar,  an affiliate of Billiton owns 36%,  Abalco S.A. (owned 60% by Alcoa and
40% by WMC) owns 18.9% and an affiliate of Alcan Aluminium  Limited (Alcan) owns
10%.

In 1999, the Alumar refinery  completed an expansion of 260,000 mt, bringing the
total annual  capacity to  approximately  1.25 million mt. The smelter  consumes
most of this alumina production.

Aluminio  holds an 8.6%  interest  and  Abalco  S.A.  holds a 4.6%  interest  in
Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.  (MRN), a mining company jointly owned by affiliates
of  Alcan,  Companhia  Brasileira  de  Aluminio,  Companhia  Vale  do Rio  Doce,
Billiton,  Norsk Hydro and Reynolds.  Aluminio and Abalco S.A.  purchase bauxite
from MRN under long-term supply contracts.

At Pocos de Caldas, Aluminio mines bauxite and operates a refinery. The refinery
has an annual capacity of 275,000 mt and primarily  supplies  Aluminio's  nearby
smelter.

        Spain

Alcoa  and a WMC  affiliate  hold 60% and 40%  interests,  respectively,  in the
refinery at San Ciprian.  The refinery's  current annual capacity is 1.1 million
mt. A  modernization  plan  for the San  Ciprian  plant  will  increase  alumina
production capacity by 220,000 mt per year. Basic engineering of the project has
been completed and the work is expected to finish by March 2001.

        Africa

Alcoa has long-term  contracts to purchase  bauxite  mined by a  partially-owned
entity in the Republic of Guinea in Western Africa.  This bauxite  services most
of the  requirements  of the Pt. Comfort,  Texas and San Ciprian,  Spain alumina
refineries. The contracts expire after 2011.

        United States

AWA, through a majority-owned entity, St. Croix Alumina,  L.L.C., owns a 600,000
mt per year alumina  refinery  located on St. Croix,  U.S.  Virgin  Islands.  In
February 1998, AWA restarted the refinery due to



an increase in worldwide demand for alumina. The refinery had been inactive as a
result of world alumina market conditions.

AWA owns an alumina  refinery at Pt.  Comfort,  Texas with an annual capacity to
2.3 million mt.

Alcoa Industrial Chemicals
- --------------------------

Alcoa sells  industrial  chemicals to customers in a broad  spectrum of markets.
These markets include:
     o    refractories
     o    ceramics
     o    abrasives
     o    chemicals processing and
     o    other specialty applications.

Alcoa  produces or processes  industrial  chemicals,  principally  alumina-based
chemicals, at the following locations.  Except for the plants located in Brazil,
all of the following facilities are part of AIC:
     o    Bauxite, Arkansas
     o    Dalton, Georgia
     o    Falta, India (joint venture)
     o    Ft. Meade, Florida
     o    Iwakuni and Naoetsu, Japan
     o    Kwinana and Rockingham, Australia
     o    Leetsdale, Pennsylvania
     o    Ludwigshafen, Germany
     o    Moerdijk and Rotterdam, the Netherlands
     o    Pocos de Caldas and Salto, Brazil
     o    Port Allen and Vidalia, Louisiana
     o    Pt. Comfort, Texas and
     o    Singapore.

In late 1998, AIC began  construction  of a facility in China to process tabular
alumina and other  alumina-based  materials  for sale to the Chinese  refractory
market. This facility is scheduled for completion in the first half of 2000.

Alcoa produces  aluminum  fluoride at two locations,  Pt. Comfort and Ft. Meade,
both in the  U.S.  At Pt.  Comfort,  the  aluminum  fluoride  is  produced  from
fluorspar and at Ft. Meade it is produced from  hydrofluosilicic  acid. Aluminum
fluoride is used in the aluminum smelting process.

AIC and PR  Minerals,  LLC formed a joint  venture  company  named  Great  Lakes
Minerals,   L.L.C.  The  new  company  processes  industrial  mineral  products,
primarily  refractory  aggregates  such as  calcined  bauxite  and  brown  fused
alumina.  A newly constructed  processing  facility in Wurtland,  Kentucky began
operating in January 2000.

II.  Primary Metals

The Company smelts primary aluminum from alumina  obtained  principally from its
alumina   refineries.   Alcoa's   consolidated   primary  aluminum  capacity  is
approximately  3.2 million mt per year.  When  operating  at  capacity,  Alcoa's
smelters  satisfy most of the primary  aluminum  requirements of its fabricating
operations.  Alcoa  operations  used  most  of the  Company's  primary  aluminum
production  in 1999  for  alloying  and/or  further  fabricating.  Purchases  of
aluminum  scrap,  principally  used beverage cans,  supplemented by purchases of
ingot when necessary, satisfy additional aluminum requirements.



Since 1994,  Alcoa has had 450,000 mt of its  worldwide  smelting  capacity idle
because of an  oversupply  of ingot on world  markets.  In January  2000,  Alcoa
announced that it will restart  approximately  200,000 mt of its currently idled
aluminum  smelting  capacity.  The  Company  plans to bring this  capacity  into
production over the course of the year. Alcoa will have approximately 250,000 mt
of aluminum smelting capacity that remains idle following this restart.

Alcoa produces aluminum from alumina by an electrolytic  process requiring large
amounts of electric power.  Electric power accounts for approximately 25% of the
Company's primary aluminum costs. Alcoa generates approximately 25% of the power
used at its  smelters  worldwide.  Most  purchase  contracts  for firm power tie
prices to aluminum prices or to prices based on various indices.

In February 1999, the Company  entered into a 50/50 joint venture with C.C. Pace
Resource  Management,  LLC, an energy management and consulting company, to form
Pace Global  Energy  Services,  LLC.  The new company  will provide a variety of
energy-related  management  and  consulting  services  to  Alcoa  and  to  other
unaffiliated companies.

        Australia

AWA - Australia is a participant in a joint venture smelter at Portland,  in the
State of  Victoria,  with an annual  capacity  of 345,000  mt. The owners of the
smelter are:
     o    AWA - Australia (45% interest)
     o    China International Trust and Investment Corporation (22.5% interest)
     o    Marubeni Aluminium Australia Pty., Ltd. (22.5% interest) and
     o    Eastern Aluminum Ltd. (10% interest).

Each  participant  in this smelter  contributes  to the cost of  operations  and
construction in proportion to its interest in the venture. Each participant also
then receives a proportionate  share of the output. AWA - Australia supplies the
alumina through individual  commercially  negotiated  contracts and operates the
smelter.

Power is generated  from  extensive  brown coal deposits  covered by a long-term
mineral  lease  held by AWA -  Australia,  and  that  power  currently  provides
approximately  40% of the  electricity  for the  Company's  180,000 mt per annum
smelter in Point Henry,  Victoria. The State Electricity Commission of Victoria,
under  contracts  with AWA - Australia,  provides the  remaining  power for this
smelter and all power for the  Portland  smelter.  Using a formula,  the parties
determine  the power prices based on the price of  aluminum.  Negotiations  have
been finalized to permit power  interuptibility at both Point Henry and Portland
that will contribute to accommodating peak demands in the power grid serving the
State of Victoria.

        Brazil

The Alumar  smelter at Sao Luis,  Brazil has an annual  capacity  of 365,000 mt.
Based on the cost-sharing and  production-sharing  structure,  Aluminio receives
about 54% of the production from this smelter.  The alumina requirements for its
share of the smelter production are supplied from Aluminio's share of the nearby
refinery.  Aluminio  purchases  electric  power from Central  Eletricas de Minas
Gerais S.A. (CEMIG),  the  government-controlled  electric  utility,  at a small
discount from the applicable  industrial tariff price. There is a protective cap
on the price of the  electric  power based on the London  Metal  Exchange  (LME)
aluminum price.

In  February  1999,  Aluminio  and  CEMIG  entered  into  a new  power  purchase
agreement.  Similar to the previous  agreement,  Aluminio  purchased the plant's
anticipated full power requirements for 38 months, beginning April 1999, through
a single payment based on the price of energy on the date of the agreement.



Aluminio  participates  in a  consortium  that is  building  the new  Machadinho
hydroelectric  power plant in Southern  Brazil.  In early 1998, after all of the
necessary  environmental  and other approvals had been obtained,  the consortium
began construction of the dam and related  facilities.  At the end of 1999, over
40% of the project was completed. Aluminio will share in the output of the plant
beginning  in 2002.  Aluminio  expects  its  share to be  sufficient  to  supply
approximately  one-half  of the  power  requirements  for the  Pocos  de  Caldas
smelter.

        Europe

The Company's aluminum smelters at Portovesme and Fusina,  Italy have a combined
annual capacity of 187,000 mt. The owners of the Eurallumina  refinery,  located
on  the  island  of  Sardinia  adjacent  to  the  Portovesme   smelter,   supply
approximately 40% of the alumina for the smelters under an evergreen  agreement.
The balance of the  alumina  requirements  for the  smelters is supplied by AWA.
ENEL, Italy's state-owned utility, supplies power for these smelters.

The Company also operates smelters at San Ciprian, La Coruna and Aviles,  Spain,
with a combined annual capacity of 360,000 mt. The San Ciprian refinery supplies
alumina,  and the  government-controlled  power grid currently supplies electric
power at the lowest applicable industrial tariff rate.

The Company reports equity earnings from its interest in two smelters in Norway.
Elkem Aluminium ANS,  50%-owned by an Alcoa  subsidiary,  is a partnership  that
owns and operates the smelters.

        North America

In May 1999,  the Company filed with the Federal Energy  Regulatory  Commission,
and the states of New York and North Carolina,  indicating its intent to combine
five of its wholly-owned utility subsidiaries,  Yadin, Inc., Tapoco, Inc., Alcoa
Generating Corporation,  Long Sault, Inc. and Colockum Transmission Company into
a single entity,  to be called Alcoa Power Generating Inc.  (APGI).  The mergers
into APGI were effective January 1, 2000.

The Company  generates  approximately  35% of the power  requirements for its 11
North American  smelters and generally  purchases the remainder  under long-term
contracts.  Alcoa obtains approximately 12% of the self-generated power from its
entitlement  to a fixed  percentage  of the output  from  Chelan  County  Public
Utility District's Rocky Reach hydroelectric power facility located in the State
of Washington.

In addition, Alcoa has a contract with the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA)
that services the Wenatchee,  Washington smelter. Several contractual provisions
allow power  supply  restrictions  when power is in short  supply.  Beginning in
1995, power purchased from a local public utility district replaced a portion of
the power supplied under the BPA contract. The Wenatchee facility currently uses
no power from BPA, but instead  purchases  its  additional  power needs from the
local public utility district.

The Company has  generated  substantially  all of the power used at its Warrick,
Indiana  smelter  using  nearby  coal  reserves.  A 1996  coal  supply  contract
satisfies 40% of the smelter's fuel requirements  through 2006.  Low-sulfur coal
contracts   satisfied  an  additional  35%  of  the  requirement  through  1999.
Short-term  contracts of less than two years  satisfy the  remainder of the fuel
requirements.

The  Rockdale,  Texas  smelter  uses  lignite to generate  power.  Company-owned
generating  units  supply  about  one-half  of  the  total  requirements.  Texas
Utilities  Company  supplies  the  balance  through a long-term  power  contract
expiring in 2013.



APGI owns and operates hydroelectric  facilities under Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  licenses.  These facilities  provide electric power for the aluminum
smelters at Alcoa,  Tennessee and Badin,  North Carolina.  The Tennessee smelter
also purchases firm and interruptible  power from the Tennessee Valley Authority
under a contract  recently  extended to 2010.  In mid-1999,  APGI entered into a
power sales  contract with Carolina  Power & Light Company  (CP&L),  under which
APGI sells the capacity and energy produced at its  hydroelectric  units to CP&L
and, in return,  CP&L supplies the power  requirements of the Badin plant.  This
arrangement continues through the end of August 2000.

The purchased power (primarily hydroelectric) contract for the Massena, New York
smelter  expires not earlier  than 2003.  Alcoa,  however,  may  terminate  this
contract with one year's notice.

The Lauralco smelter located in Deschambault, Quebec purchases electricity under
a  long-term  contract  that  expires  in 2014,  subject  to  certain  extension
provisions. The power rates are linked to the prevailing price of aluminum.

Alcoa also has ownership interests in the following smelters:  Intalco,  located
in Ferndale,  Washington  (61.00%);  Eastalco,  located in  Frederick,  Maryland
(61.00%);  Mt.  Holly,  located in Goose Creek,  South  Carolina  (50.33%);  and
Becancour,  located in Becancour, Quebec (24.95%). A Japanese consortium, led by
a subsidiary of Mitsui & Co. Ltd., owns an aggregate 39% interest in each of the
Intalco and Eastalco  facilities.  Subsidiaries of Century Aluminum  Company,  a
publicly  traded  domestic  corporation,  and  Sudelektra  Holding,  AG, a Swiss
corporation,  together  own 49.67% of Mt.  Holly.  On February 7, 2000,  Century
Aluminum Company announced that it had reached agreement in principle to acquire
Sudelektra  Holding's 23% interest in Mt. Holly.  The transaction is expected to
be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2000.  Subsidiaries  of Reynolds
own an  aggregate  50%  interest,  and a  subsidiary  of Pechiney  owns a 25.05%
interest in Becancour and operates the smelter.  Intalco,  Eastalco,  Mt. Holly,
and Becancour are all cost-sharing and production-sharing joint ventures.

Intalco, Eastalco, Mt. Holly, and Becancour purchase electricity under long-term
contracts  that expire in the years  2001,  2003,  2005 and 2014,  respectively,
subject to certain  extension  provisions.  Except for Intalco,  each facility's
contract is with a single  supplier.  The power rate for all of the  electricity
supplied  to the  Becancour  facility  is  linked  to the  prevailing  price  of
aluminum.  In late 1995,  Intalco  entered into a series of new long-term  power
contracts  with the BPA and  British  Columbia  Power  Exchange  Corporation  to
provide all of its  electricity  needs from September  1996 through 2001.  Under
these  contracts,  Intalco's  power  costs are no longer  linked to the price of
aluminum  but are set at a fixed rate.  Mt.  Holly  entered  into a new electric
power supply agreement in 1997, while Eastalco amended its existing power supply
agreement during the same year. For the foreseeable future,  these contracts are
expected to meet the power requirements of these facilities.

In addition,  Alcoa produces and markets aluminum paste,  particles,  flakes and
atomized powder. The Company also produces high-purity aluminum.

        Suriname

In March  1999,  Alcoa  shut down its  30,000 mt per year  smelter  in  Paranam,
Suriname.

III.  Flat-Rolled Products

Alcoa's   flat-rolled   products  serve  three  principal  markets:   packaging,
transportation and building and construction. Light gauge sheet products, mainly
rigid container sheet and foil,  serve the packaging  market,  and mill products
(sheet and plate) serve the other markets. Alcoa employs its own sales force for
most flat-rolled products.



Rigid Container Sheet (RCS)
- ---------------------------

RCS  accounted  for most of the  1999  revenues  in the  packaging  market.  Can
companies purchase RCS for production of beverage and food cans and can ends.

The number of RCS  customers in the U.S. is  relatively  small.  Use of aluminum
beverage cans continues to increase by approximately 3% annually worldwide.

Aluminum's diverse characteristics, particularly its light weight, recyclability
and  flexibility  for package  designs,  are  significant  factors in  packaging
markets.  Aluminum  competes with materials such as steel,  plastic and glass in
these markets.  Alcoa maintains leadership in the packaging markets by improving
processes and facilities. Alcoa also provides marketing,  research and technical
support to its customers. Alcoa produces RCS at the following locations:
     o    Warrick, Indiana
     o    Alcoa, Tennessee
     o    Point Henry and Yennora, Australia (joint venture facilities)
     o    Moka, Japan (joint venture facility) and
     o    Swansea, U.K.

Kaal Australia Pty., Ltd.,  50%-owned by Alcoa, owns and operates the former AWA
- - Australia  rolling mill at Point Henry and the former Comalco  Limited rolling
mill at Yennora.  These mills produce RCS for the  Australian and Asian markets.
AWA - Australia supplies Kaal Australia with aluminum ingot.

A subsidiary  of Alcoa  participates  in a 50/50 joint  venture with Kobe Steel,
Ltd.  that  produces  RCS for  markets in Japan and other  Asian  countries.  In
connection with this venture,  Alcoa has a long-term contract to supply metal to
Kobe Steel.

Used aluminum beverage cans are an important source of metal for RCS.  Recycling
aluminum  conserves raw materials,  reduces litter and saves energy -- about 95%
of the energy needed to produce  aluminum from bauxite.  In addition,  recycling
capacity costs much less than new primary aluminum capacity. The Company has can
recycling or remelt facilities at or near its plants in:
     o    Warrick, Indiana
     o    Alcoa, Tennessee and
     o    Yennora, Australia.

Foil
- ----

Alcoa's Lebanon,  Pennsylvania facility produces industrial foil, laminated foil
and brazing  sheet.  The building and  construction,  packaging  and  automotive
markets  use  these  products.  Continuous  casting  facilities  in  Hawesville,
Kentucky  and  Badin,  North  Carolina  produce  reroll  stock in support of the
Lebanon  facility.  The Company  also owns and  operates an  additional  casting
facility in St.  Louis,  Missouri.  Foil  products  from this  facility are sold
primarily to commercial users in the flexible packaging, converter, food service
and  pharmaceutical  industries.  Alcoa also owns and  operates  a  facility  in
Russellville,  Arkansas.  The  Russellville  plant,  which is  supported  by the
casting facility in St. Louis, produces foodservice and converter foil products.

Aluminio, near Recife, Brazil, manufactures light gauge sheet, foil products and
laminated  evaporator panels.  The Yennora,  Australia plant also produces light
gauge sheet.  In addition,  the  facilities  at Alicante and  Sabinanigo,  Spain
produce foil products.

Alcoa and Shanghai Aluminum Fabrication Plant (SAFP) have a joint venture, owned
60% by Alcoa and 40% by SAFP,  that  operates  the  former  SAFP  aluminum  foil
production facility in Shanghai,  China. With



the addition of a second  caster in April 1998,  the annual  output of the joint
venture facility is now over 15,000 mt.

The Company owns a 56% interest in a foil mill in Kunming, Yunnan, China.

In August 1999,  Alcoa and Kibar Holding Co. of Turkey signed a letter of intent
to form a strategic  alliance with Kibar's Turkish  aluminum  business.  Kibar's
aluminum  business,  known as Assan  Aluminyum,  is the leading rolled  products
business in Turkey.

In  November  1999,  Alcoa  purchased  substantially  all the  assets  of Golden
Aluminum  Company,  a subsidiary of ACX  Technologies,  Inc.  Golden  Aluminum's
operations  include a shuttered  rolling  facility in San  Antonio,  Texas and a
rolling  facility  in Ft.  Lupton,  Colorado.  Alcoa will retain the San Antonio
plant for development work and non-can sheet production.  In January 2000, Alcoa
sold the Ft. Lupton facility to Quanex Corporation.

Mill Products
- -------------

Alcoa produces sheet and plate products that are used in the following markets:
     o    aerospace
     o    auto and truck
     o    lithographic
     o    railroad
     o    shipbuilding
     o    building and construction
     o    defense and
     o    other industrial and consumer markets.

The  Company  maintains  its own  sales  force  for most of the  sheet and plate
products.

Differentiation  of  material  properties,  price and  service  are  significant
competitive  factors in these markets.  Aluminum's diverse  characteristics  are
important in markets where competitive  materials include steel and plastics for
automotive  and  building  applications;  magnesium,  titanium,  composites  and
plastics for aerospace and defense applications;  and wood and vinyl in building
and  construction  applications.  Alcoa continues to develop alloys and products
for aerospace and defense  applications,  such as those developed for the Boeing
777 aircraft,  the Lockheed F-16 aircraft,  the Canadair aircraft,  the Advanced
Amphibious Assault Vehicle and the Airbus A340-600 aircraft.

Davenport,  Iowa is home to Alcoa's  largest  sheet and plate  plant.  The plant
produces  products   requiring   special   alloying,   heat-treating  and  other
processing. Some of these products are unique and proprietary. Over the past two
years,  the  Davenport  plant's  heat-treating  capacity for sheet and plate was
increased to meet aerospace and automotive  demand.  Alcoa also commissioned the
largest vertical heat-treat furnace in North America,  thus tripling the plant's
capacity  for  wide-width  fuselage  sheet.  A  horizontal  plate  heat-treating
furnace, which was installed in 1997, has increased the plant's capacity by 30%.

Alcoa has a plant in Hutchinson,  Kansas for further processing and just-in-time
stocking of aluminum sheet products for the U.S. aerospace market.  Alcoa serves
European sheet and plate markets through a distribution center in Paal, Belgium.

Alcoa has a plant in Danville,  Illinois for further processing and just-in-time
stocking of aluminum sheet products for the North  American  automotive  market.
This facility began to operate in 1998 and became fully  operational  during the
second half of 1999.



The Company also has plants in Lancaster, Pennsylvania and Texarkana, Texas that
produce sheet and plate, and semi-fabricated  products,  circles and blanks. The
Lancaster facility also produces semi-fabricated cast aluminum plate, engineered
to meet highly  specialized  industrial  applications.  The Texarkana  mill is a
leased  facility.  The  five-year  operating  lease for the facility  expires in
November 2002, but is renewable for up to two additional years.

Alcoa's  Memory  Products  business  in  Sidney,  Ohio was closed in 1999 as the
memory disk market and customer base declined.

Alcoa's Brite Products business in Norcross, Georgia was closed in 1999.

Alcoa and Kobe Steel have a joint venture  consisting of one company in the U.S.
and one in Japan.  The focus of these  ventures is to expand the use of aluminum
sheet  products  in  passenger  cars  and  light  trucks.   As  a  result  of  a
restructuring  of the venture in January  2000,  the U.S.  company will focus on
research and development  efforts,  while the Japanese  company will continue to
engage in  commercial  (manufacturing,  marketing and sales) as well as research
and development efforts, to serve the transportation industry.

The Company's  Hungarian  subsidiary,  Alcoa-Kofem Kft (Kofem),  produces common
alloy flat and coiled sheet as well as soft alloy  extrusions  for the building,
construction,  food,  transportation  and  agricultural  markets in central  and
western Europe. Kofem delivers aluminum truck bodies to major beverage companies
in Europe and the Middle East.

The  Company's  Alcoa Italia S.p.A.  subsidiary  produces  industrial  plate and
common  alloy  flat  and  coiled  sheet  for  the  building  and   construction,
transportation  and other  industrial  markets  in Europe at its  Fusina,  Italy
rolling mill.

Alcoa has rolling mills at Amorebieta,  Alicante and  Sabinanigo,  Spain.  These
mills  produce  common  alloy  flat  and  coiled  sheet  for  the  building  and
construction,  and transportation  markets,  lithographic sheet and coil, bright
products for lighting,  cosmetic and industrial uses and foil products for food,
pharmaceutical and industrial applications in Europe.

In April 1999,  Alcoa completed the acquisition of the bright products  business
of Pechiney's  Rhenalu  rolling plant located at  Castelsarrasin  near Toulouse,
France.

In August 1999, Alcoa, the Holding Company for Metallurgical  Industries and the
Egypt Aluminum Company (Egyptalum) signed a memorandum of understanding relating
to the formation of a strategic alliance between Alcoa and Egyptalum.  Egyptalum
is the largest  aluminum company in Egypt,  with substantial  assets in smelting
and rolled products.

IV.  Engineered Products

Engineered products include aluminum  extrusions,  forgings,  castings and wire,
rod and bar.

Extrusions
- ----------

The North American extrusion business is comprised of Alcoa Engineered  Products
and Alcoa Extruded Construction Products.



Alcoa Engineered Products has nine operating locations:
     o    Baltimore, Maryland - hard alloy extrusions
     o    Catawba, North Carolina - specialized extrusions
     o    Chandler, Arizona - hard alloy extrusions, tube and forge stock
     o    Cressona,  Pennsylvania  - industrial  and  distribution  common alloy
          extrusions
     o    Elizabethton,  Tennessee - industrial  and  distribution  common alloy
          extrusions
     o    Lafayette, Indiana - hard alloy extrusions and tube
     o    Massena,  New York - cast rod,  mechanical-grade  redraw rod, wire and
          cold-finished rod and bar extrusions
     o    Morris, Illinois - industrial and distribution common alloy extrusions
     o    Spanish  Fork,  Utah  -  industrial  and  distribution   common  alloy
          extrusions

These facilities are supported by sales and administration  centers in Illinois,
Indiana and  Pennsylvania.  Extruded aluminum products from these operations are
sold to  original  equipment  manufacturers  in  aerospace/defense,  automotive,
commercial transportation,  machinery, electrical, recreation, consumer durables
and other industrial markets and to distributors who service these markets.

Alcoa Extruded  Construction  Products has nine operating  locations:  Arkansas,
Florida,  Georgia  (2),  Ohio,  Louisiana,  Mississippi,  South  Dakota  and  an
international  operation in Monterrey,  Mexico. These facilities manufacture and
sell soft-alloy  extruded products.  Representative  products include window and
door frames,  bath and shower  enclosures,  patio and pool  enclosures,  stadium
seating, light poles and flag poles, and colored architectural shapes.

Alcoa Extruded Construction Products' shower and bath enclosures are distributed
through service centers in California,  Florida,  Georgia, Iowa, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Texas and Washington, as well as through independent distributors.
The Mexican operation consists of a two-press extrusion plant in Monterrey.  All
plants and facilities are owned by the Company,  except for the plant located in
Monterrey  and the service  centers,  which are leased.  The Company  closed its
extrusion facility in West Chicago, Illinois in April 1999.

In January 2000, Alcoa purchased Excel Extrusions, Inc., a subsidiary of Noranda
Aluminum,  Inc.,  located in Warren,  Ohio.  The  facility  produces  soft-alloy
aluminum  extrusions  that are used  primarily in the building and  construction
markets.

A subsidiary in Argentina and Aluminio  manufacture  aluminum extruded products.
Aluminio  operates  five  plants in Brazil,  with a total of  fifteen  extrusion
presses.

Alcoa  Extrusions  Hannover  GmbH & Co. KG produces  and  markets  high-strength
aluminum extrusions and rod and bar to serve European transportation and defense
markets.

The subsidiaries of Alcoa Europe Holding B.V.,  formerly Alcoa Nederland Holding
B.V., produce extrusions,  common alloy sheet products and a variety of finished
products for the building industry, such as aluminum windows, doors and aluminum
ceiling  systems.  These companies also  manufacture  products for  agricultural
applications, such as automated greenhouse systems.

Alcoa Italia S.p.A. produces and markets industrial extrusions through plants in
Bolzano, Fossanova, Feltre and Iglesias, Italy. Also part of Alcoa Italia S.p.A.
is an extrusion die shop located in Mori, Italy.

The Company owns and operates extrusion plants in Valls, Noblejas and La Coruna,
Spain.

Alcoa also has  extrusion  plants in Hungary  and the United  Kingdom.  In March
1999, Alcoa completed its acquisition of Reynolds'  aluminum  extrusion plant in
Irurzun,  Spain as well as its distribution operation for architectural systems,
which has warehouses in several cities in Spain.



Kawneer Company, Inc. (Kawneer) designs,  manufactures and markets architectural
aluminum  products and is a leading  producer of these  products in the U.S. and
Canada.  These products  include  entrances,  windows,  framing and curtain wall
systems  for  the  commercial  building  markets.   Kawneer  products  also  are
engineered for use on construction projects throughout the world.

Kawneer operates five integrated  architectural  plants,  17 service centers and
one additional  manufacturing  location in the U.S.  Distribution is principally
through dealers, most of whom are glazing contractors.

Kawneer also operates two integrated architectural plants in Canada that provide
most of the product  that is sold for large  overseas  projects,  as well as two
service centers.

Alumax Europe N.V.  manages Kawneer  Europe's  operations in the United Kingdom,
France,  Germany and Poland. It also participates in a joint venture in Morocco.
Three manufacturing plants located in France,  England and Germany, two of which
are owned and one of which is leased,  provide  architectural  aluminum products
similar to those  produced by Kawneer  operations in the U.S. These products are
marketed  under the Kawneer  Europe name  throughout  Europe.  Kawneer  Europe's
subsidiaries also operate service centers in France,  Poland and Morocco.  Other
former  operations of Alumax Europe,  which included custom  extrusion plants in
the United Kingdom and the Netherlands,  and an aluminum  recycling  facility in
the Netherlands that produces soft-alloy  extrusion billet, have been integrated
operationally into Alcoa Europe Extrusion and End Products Business Unit.

Forgings and Castings
- ---------------------

The  Company's  plant  in  Cleveland,  Ohio  produces  aluminum  forgings,  sold
principally in the aerospace, automotive,  commercial transportation and defense
markets.  The Cleveland plant,  along with the Company's  facility in Barberton,
Ohio,  also produces  aluminum  forged wheels for passenger  automobiles,  sport
utility  vehicles and light trucks and wheels for the bus and Class 8 heavy-duty
truck industry.

Alcoa's plant in  Szekesfehervar,  Hungary  manufactures  forged  aluminum truck
wheels for the European market. The plant also manufactures wheels for export to
Asian,  South  American and other  geographic  markets  that use  European-style
wheels.

Aluminio plans to build a 72,000-unit-per-year aluminum wheel plant in the state
of Pernambuco,  Brazil.  The new plant initially will operate by finishing Alcoa
wheels imported in unfinished form.

V.  Other

This  category  includes  the  production  and  sale  of high  performance  body
structures  for cars,  electrical,  plastic and  composite  materials  products,
manufacturing and packaging equipment, magnesium products and steel and titanium
forgings.

Alcoa Automotive
- ----------------

In 1999,  Alcoa refocused its Automotive  Structures  business unit. The Company
formed two new businesses,  Alcoa Automotive Castings (which includes a Finished
Extruded  Components  unit) and Alcoa Automotive  Engineering.  Alcoa Automotive
Castings  offers  high-quality,  structural  castings  and formed  and  machined
extrusions,  while Alcoa Automotive  Engineering  provides design,  engineering,
prototyping   and  cost  analysis  for  aluminum   structures,   assemblies  and
components.



The  manufacturing  plant in Soest,  Germany became part of the Alcoa Automotive
Castings business. Alcoa produces the components and selected sub-assemblies for
the Audi A8  spaceframe,  the result of a  cooperative  effort  between  the two
companies that began in 1981. The Soest plant also produces the front end module
for the new Mercedes-Benz A Class car.

Alcoa Automotive Castings's Modena, Italy facility assembles spaceframes for the
Ferrari  360  Modena,  which  was  introduced  in 1999 to  favorable  automotive
industry reviews.

In August 1999,  Alcoa acquired  almost all of the remaining 50% interest in the
A-CMI  partnership  from Hayes  Lemmerz  International,  Inc.  A-CMI was a joint
venture formed in 1995 between Alcoa and CMI International, Inc. to produce cast
aluminum  products for the  automotive  industry.  Hayes  Lemmerz  purchased CMI
International,  Inc.  in  February  1999.  A-CMI,  now part of Alcoa  Automotive
Castings, has plants located in Fruitport,  Michigan,  Hawesville,  Kentucky and
Lista, Norway. The Lista plant is located near the 50%-owned Elkem Aluminium ANS
smelter,  which  delivers  molten  aluminum  to the  plant.  Current  Automotive
Castings customers include DaimlerChrysler, Ford, Volvo, BMW and General Motors.

Alcoa  also  designs  and  builds  specialized  die-casting  machines  through a
subsidiary in Montreal, Canada.

Alcoa's plant in Northwood, Ohio manufactures DaimlerChrysler's Plymouth Prowler
frame and a variety of aluminum  structural  assemblies for the U.S.  automotive
industry, including the Corvette windshield surround.

Alcoa is working with several other  automobile  manufacturers  in North America
and Japan to develop new automotive applications for aluminum products.

Alcoa  Automotive  Engineering  includes the design and  engineering  offices in
Esslingen  (Stuttgart),   Germany,  Southfield  (Detroit),  Michigan  and  Alcoa
Technical Center,  near Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania.  The Company designs aluminum
auto body structures for a variety of car manufacturers and for Tier 1 suppliers
to the automotive industry at these locations.

Alumax Engineered Metal Processes,  Inc. (AEMP) produced  automotive  components
with  operations  in  Jackson,  Tennessee  and  Bentonville,  Arkansas  using  a
semi-solid  forging  process.  In May  1999,  Alcoa  completed  the  sale of the
Jackson, Tennessee facility to the management of AEMP. In addition, Alcoa closed
the Bentonville, Arkansas plant.

Alcoa Fujikura Ltd. (AFL)
- -------------------------

AFL produces and markets  electronic and electrical  distribution  systems (EDS)
for the  automotive  industry,  as well as fiber optic  products and systems for
selected electric  utilities,  telecommunications,  cable television and datacom
markets. AFL supplies EDS to:
     o    Ford
     o    Subaru
     o    PACCAR
     o    Audi and
     o    Volkswagen.

AFL owns Michels GmbH & Co. K.G. (Michels),  a European  manufacturer of EDS for
automobiles.   AFL  also  owns  the  Stribel   group  of   companies,   European
manufacturers of  electromechanical  and electronic  components for the European
automotive  market.  The European  facilities  are located in Germany,  Hungary,
Ireland and the United Kingdom.



AFL and Aluminio have a joint venture,  AFL do Brasil Ltda.,  that  manufactures
and  sells  EDS  in  Brazil.  AFL  also  has an EDS  manufacturing  facility  in
Venezuela.

Significant  competitive  factors in the EDS markets include price,  quality and
full service supplier  capability,  as automakers  increasingly  require support
from selected suppliers on a global basis.

Six "R" Communications,  L.L.C., part of AFL's telecommunications division, is a
Monroe,  North Carolina-based  provider of EF&I services (engineer,  furnish and
install) to the telecom, CATV and electric utility industries. EF&I subsidiaries
of Six "R"  Communications  include  T.I.C.S.  Corporation  in Charlotte,  North
Carolina;  MinTel  Communications,  L.L.C.  in  Norcross,  Georgia;  and Quality
Control Services, L.L.C. in Richmond, Virginia.

In October 1999, AFL's telecommunications  division acquired 55% of the stock of
Tele-Tech Company, Inc., in Lexington,  Kentucky and 55% of the stock of Digisys
Corp.  in  Alpharetta,  Georgia.  Both  companies are providers of EF&I services
nationally to the telecom industry and cabling contracting  services for LAN and
computer network installations.

In February 2000,  AFL's  telecommunications  division  acquired  privately held
Noyes Fiber Systems, Inc., headquartered in Belmont, New Hampshire.  Noyes Fiber
Systems  is  a  manufacturer  of  fiber  optic  test  equipment  for  measuring,
maintaining and documenting the performance of fiber optic networks.

Packaging and Closures
- ----------------------

Alcoa Closure Systems  International,  Inc. (ACSI), the world's largest producer
of plastic closures,  manages all of Alcoa's worldwide closures businesses other
than in South America. ACSI coordinates its business from Indianapolis, Indiana.
The  Company's   South  American   closures   business  and  PET   (polyethylene
terephthalate)  plastic bottles manufacturing  facilities are managed separately
by Aluminio from Sao Paulo, Brazil.

The use of plastic closures has surpassed that of aluminum closures for beverage
containers in the U.S. and in many other  countries.  Alcoa has plastic closure,
PET plastic bottle, closure molding equipment and packaging equipment design and
assembly facilities at the following locations:

Packaging and Closures Facilities:
     o    Barcelona, Spain
     o    Barueri, Itapissuma, Lages and Queimados, Brazil
     o    Bogota, Colombia
     o    Buenos Aires, Argentina
     o    Crawfordsville, Indiana
     o    Englewood, Colorado
     o    Ensenada and Saltillo, Mexico
     o    Lima, Peru
     o    Lyubuchany, Russia
     o    Manama, Bahrain
     o    Manila, the Philippines
     o    Nogi, Japan
     o    Olive Branch, Mississippi
     o    Randolph, New York
     o    San Jose, Costa Rica
     o    Santiago, Chile
     o    Sidney, Ohio
     o    Szekesfehervar, Hungary



     o    Tianjin, China and
     o    Worms and Viernheim, Germany.

The Alcoa Packaging Equipment business unit designs,  manufactures and services:
     o    can forming equipment
     o    can decoration equipment
     o    registered embossers
     o    end conversion presses
     o    a variety of testing equipment for the can-making industry
     o    plastic and aluminum  closure  handling,  orientation,  inspection and
          capping equipment for the food and beverage industry and
     o    specialty   aluminum   components  for  the  semiconductor   equipment
          industry.

Other Aluminum Products
- -----------------------

Aluminio  and  Phelps  Dodge  Corporation  have a joint  venture  that  produces
aluminum  electric  cable and copper  wiring and cables in Brazil.  The venture,
Phelps Dodge & Alcoa Fios e Cabos  Eletricos  S.A., is owned 60% by Phelps Dodge
and 40% by Aluminio.  Production  takes place at the venture's plant in Pocos de
Caldas.

Alcoa  Building  Products,  Inc.  (ABP)  manufactures  and  markets  residential
aluminum siding and other aluminum building  products.  ABP sells these products
principally to specialty distributors.

ASCI produces aluminum closures for bottles at Worms,  Germany,  Nogi, Japan and
Barcelona,  Spain. In early 1999, the Company sold the assets subject to certain
liabilities of Capsulas Metalicas, S.A., its metal beverage closures business in
Barcelona, Spain, to Alucapvit, S.p.A.

Alcoa also owns a 36% interest in American  Trim,  L.L.C.,  a joint venture that
manufactures primarily auto parts and appliance control panels.

Other Nonaluminum Products
- --------------------------

ABP  produces  vinyl  siding  and  accessories  and other  nonaluminum  building
products for the residential building and construction markets.

Northwest Alloys, Inc., in Addy, Washington, produces magnesium from minerals in
the area owned by the Company.  Alcoa uses the  magnesium  for certain  aluminum
alloys and also sells it to third parties.

Aluminio  owns  40% and  affiliates  of  Alcatel  of  France  own 60% of a joint
venture,  called Alcatel Cabos Brazil. The venture manufactures,  in Brazil, and
sells telecommunication cables and related accessories in South America.

The Alcoa facility at Cleveland,  Ohio produces large press steel,  titanium and
special  super-alloy  forgings.  Aerospace  and  commercial  customers  are  the
principal purchasers of these products.

Competition
- -----------

The markets for most aluminum products are highly  competitive.  Price,  quality
and  service are the  principal  competitive  factors in most of these  markets.
Where   aluminum   products   compete   with  other   materials,   the   diverse
characteristics  of aluminum are also a  significant  factor,  particularly  its
light weight and recyclability.



The aluminum  industry is highly  cyclical,  and the LME-based prices of primary
aluminum  influence the Company's results of operations.  This price sensitivity
impacts a  portion  of the  Company's  alumina  sales and many of the  Company's
aluminum  products.  There is, however,  less impact on the more specialized and
value-added products.

The Company  continues to examine all aspects of its  operations  and activities
and  redesign  them where  necessary to enhance  effectiveness  and achieve cost
reductions. Alcoa believes that it enhances its competitive position through its
improved processes,  extensive  facilities and willingness and ability to commit
capital  where  necessary  to  meet  growth  in  important  markets,  and by the
capability   of  its   employees.   This  is  being  done   through   aggressive
implementation  of the Alcoa Business  System (ABS) that  encompasses the entire
value chain, including manufacturing and supporting business processes. Research
and development has led to improved  product quality and production  techniques,
new product development and cost control.

ABS is based upon the complete integration of the Company's mission,  vision and
values with  manufacturing  and its business  processes and measures in order to
produce  desired  outcomes.  The basic tenets of ABS are (1) making products for
use (not  inventory),  and working only on the needs of customers  (external and
internal) (2) doing away with waste  everywhere and (3) recognizing that success
can only be achieved through people.

Alcoa has realized  significant  achievements to date through the implementation
of ABS in its businesses, including:
     o    reduction of waste
     o    reduction in lead times
     o    improvement in delivery performance
     o    improvement in "throughput" and recovery
     o    increases in productivity
     o    reduction of inventory and backlogged orders
     o    reduction in handling equipment and
     o    emptying of factory floor space.

Alcoa  believes that ABS will in time  substantially  improve its  profitability
relative  to its peers.  In July  1998,  Alcoa  announced  a $1.1  billion  cost
reduction  initiative to be achieved by January 1, 2001. The Company  intends to
realize a significant portion of this reduction through ABS. At the end of 1999,
the Company had achieved  $728 million in  annualized  cost savings  towards the
$1.1 billion goal.

Risk Factors
- ------------

In  addition  to the risks  inherent  in its  operations,  Alcoa is  exposed  to
financial, market, political and economic risks. The following discussion, which
provides  additional  detail regarding Alcoa's exposure to the risks of changing
commodity   prices,   foreign  exchange  rates  and  interest  rates,   includes
forward-looking  statements that involve risk and uncertainties.  Actual results
could  differ   materially  from  those   projected  in  these   forward-looking
statements.

Commodity Price Risks
- ---------------------

Alcoa is a leading  global  producer of aluminum  ingot and aluminum  fabricated
products.  As a condition of sale,  customers  often  require Alcoa to commit to
fixed-price  contracts that sometimes  extend a number of years into the future.
Customers  will likely require Alcoa to enter into similar  arrangements  in the
future.  These contracts expose Alcoa to the risk of fluctuating aluminum prices
between the time the order is accepted and the time that the order ships.



In the U.S.,  Alcoa is net  metal  short  and is  subject  to the risk of higher
aluminum  prices for the  anticipated  metal  purchases  required to fulfill the
long-term  customer contracts noted above. To hedge this risk, Alcoa enters into
long positions,  principally  using futures and options.  Alcoa follows a stable
pattern of purchasing  metal;  therefore,  it is highly likely that  anticipated
metal  requirements  will be met. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, these contracts
totaled approximately  465,000 mt and 933,000 mt, respectively.  These contracts
act to fix the purchase  price for these metal  purchase  requirements,  thereby
reducing Alcoa's risk to rising metal prices.

A hypothetical 10% change from the 1999 year-end, three-month LME aluminum ingot
price of $1,650 per mt would result in a pretax gain or loss to future  earnings
of $77 million related to all of the futures and options  contracts noted above.
However,  it should be noted  that any  change in the value of these  contracts,
real or hypothetical,  would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the
value of the underlying metal purchase transactions.

Earnings  were  selected as the  measure of  sensitivity  due to the  historical
relationship   between   aluminum  ingot  prices  and  Alcoa's   earnings.   The
hypothetical change of 10% was calculated using a parallel shift in the existing
December 31, 1999 forward price curve for aluminum ingot.  The price curve takes
into account the time value of money, as well as future  expectations  regarding
the price of aluminum ingot.

The   futures  and  options   contracts   noted  above  are  with   creditworthy
counterparties and are further supported by cash,  treasury bills or irrevocable
letters of credit issued by carefully chosen banks.

The  expiration  dates of the  options  and the  delivery  dates of the  futures
contracts  noted above do not always  coincide  exactly  with the dates on which
Alcoa is required to purchase  metal to meet its  contractual  commitments  with
customers. Accordingly, some of the futures and options positions will be rolled
forward.  This may result in significant  cash inflows if the hedging  contracts
are "in-the-money" at the time they are rolled forward.  Conversely, there could
be  significant  cash outflows if metal prices fall below the price of contracts
being rolled forward.

Alcoa  also had  21,000  mt and  29,000  mt of  futures  and  options  contracts
outstanding  at  year-end  1999 and 1998,  respectively,  that cover  long-term,
fixed-price  commitments to supply  customers with metal from internal  sources.
Accounting  convention requires that these contracts be marked to market,  which
resulted in after-tax gains of $12 million in 1999 and charges of $45 million in
1998 and $13 million in 1997. A hypothetical 10% change in aluminum ingot prices
from the  year-end  1999 level of $1,650 per mt would result in a pretax gain or
loss of $3 million related to these positions. The hypothetical gain or loss was
calculated using the same model and assumptions noted earlier.

Alcoa sells  products to various third parties at prices that are  influenced by
changes in LME  aluminum  prices.  From time to time,  the  Company may elect to
hedge a portion  of these  exposures  to reduce the risk of  fluctuating  market
prices on these sales.  Towards this end,  Alcoa may enter into short  positions
using  futures and options  contracts.  At December  31, 1999,  these  contracts
totaled  244,000  mt.  These  contracts  act to fix a portion of the sales price
related to these sales  contracts.  A hypothetical  10% change in aluminum ingot
prices from the  year-end  1999 level of $1,650 per mt would  result in a pretax
gain or loss of $29 million related to these positions. The hypothetical gain or
loss was calculated using the same model and assumptions noted earlier.

Alcoa also purchases  certain other  commodities,  such as fuel oil, natural gas
and copper,  for its operations and enters into futures and options contracts to
eliminate volatility in the prices of such products. None of these contracts are
material. For additional information on financial instruments, see Notes A and T
to the financial statements.



Foreign Exchange Risks
- ----------------------

Alcoa  is  subject  to  significant   exposure  from   fluctuations  in  foreign
currencies.  As a matter of company policy, foreign currency exchange contracts,
including  forwards  and  options,  are  sometimes  used to  limit  the  risk of
fluctuating  exchange  rates.  A  hypothetical  10%  change in  applicable  1999
year-end  forward  rates would result in a pretax gain or loss of  approximately
$169 million related to these  positions.  However,  it should be noted that any
change  in the  value  of  these  contracts,  real  or  hypothetical,  would  be
significantly  offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged
item. The model assumes a parallel shift in the forward curve for the applicable
currencies and includes the foreign currency  impacts of Alcoa's  cross-currency
interest rate swaps. See Notes A and T for information related to the accounting
policies  and fair  market  values of  Alcoa's  foreign  exchange  contracts  at
December 31, 1999 and 1998.

Interest Rate Risks
- -------------------

Alcoa attempts to maintain a reasonable balance between fixed- and floating-rate
debt and uses  interest  rate swaps and caps to keep  financing  costs as low as
possible.  At December  31, 1999 and 1998,  Alcoa had $3,067  million and $3,489
million  of debt  outstanding  at  effective  interest  rates of 5.8% and  6.1%,
respectively,  after the  impact of  interest  rate swaps and caps is taken into
account.  A hypothetical  change of 10% in Alcoa's effective  interest rate from
year-end 1999 levels would increase or decrease interest expense by $20 million.
The interest rate effect of Alcoa's cross-currency  interest rate swaps has been
included  in this  analysis.  For more  information  related to  Alcoa's  use of
interest rate instruments, see Notes A and T.

Risk Management
- ---------------

All of the aluminum and other commodity contracts,  as well as the various types
of financial  instruments,  are  straightforward and are held for purposes other
than trading.  They are used primarily to mitigate  uncertainty  and volatility,
and principally cover underlying exposures.

Alcoa's  commodity  and  derivative  activities  are subject to the  management,
direction and control of the Strategic Risk Management Committee (SRMC). SRMC is
composed of the chief executive  officer,  the chief financial officer and other
officers and employees that the chief executive  officer may select from time to
time.  SRMC reports to the board of directors at each of its scheduled  meetings
on the scope of its derivative activities.

Material Limitations
- --------------------

The  disclosures,  with respect to aluminum prices and foreign exchange risk, do
not take into account the underlying  anticipated  purchase  obligations and the
underlying  transactional  foreign exchange  exposures.  If the underlying items
were  included in the  analysis,  the gains or losses on the futures and options
contracts  may be  offset.  Actual  results  will be  determined  by a number of
factors that are not under  Alcoa's  control and could vary  significantly  from
those disclosed.

Year 2000 Issue
- ---------------

Alcoa,  like other businesses,  made substantial  preparations for the Year 2000
issue.  The Year 2000 issue arose from the past practice of utilizing two digits
(as  opposed  to  four) to  represent  the year in some  computer  programs  and
software.  If uncorrected,  this could have resulted in computational  errors as
dates are  compared  across  the  century  boundary.  The vast  majority  of the
products produced and sold by Alcoa are unaffected by Year 2000 issues in use or
operation since they contain no microprocessors.



Based  on  information   available  to  date,  Alcoa  has  not  experienced  any
significant  events  attributable to Year 2000 issues. The Company will continue
to monitor for potential issues at Alcoa, its customers and suppliers,  in order
to permit a rapid response  should any issues arise.  Alcoa believes that if any
Year 2000 issues were to arise, they would not have a significant  impact on its
operations and would most likely be isolated, short-term events.

Alcoa's Year 2000 program  provided a focused effort across all of the Company's
locations that:

     o    identified,  assessed,  remediated and tested 26,232 Alcoa systems and
          components;
     o    formally assessed 3,399 critical and important suppliers;
     o    conducted 202 formal on-site program verification reviews;
     o    provided Year 2000 readiness  information to 2,802 separate  customers
          and
     o    updated and completed 1,890 contingency plans.

In 1999 and 1998,  Alcoa  incurred  $38  million  each  year of direct  costs in
connection with its Year 2000 program.  These costs include external  consulting
costs and the cost of hardware  and  software  replaced as a result of Year 2000
issues.  Alcoa does not expect to incur significant  direct costs related to the
Year 2000 issue during the current year.

Employees
- ---------

Alcoa had approximately 107,700 employees worldwide at year-end 1999.

Alcoa and its unions ratified six-year labor agreements covering the majority of
Alcoa's U.S.  production workers in mid-1996.  As part of the agreements,  Alcoa
and the unions agreed to an unprecedented  partnership  mandating that they work
cooperatively on customer requirements,  business objectives and shareholder and
union  interests.  The  agreements  set broad  goals for  employee  safety,  job
security,  and influence,  control and  accountability for the work environment.
Other  major  provisions  include  wage  increases  over the first  five  years,
enhanced pension benefits,  increases in sickness and accident  insurance,  life
insurance and dental  benefits and the amount of income a spouse may earn before
sharing medical benefit costs.

The agreements  have five years of defined  provisions.  At the end of the fifth
year,  Alcoa and the unions  will  reopen the entire  contract.  If the  parties
cannot reach agreement, they will submit the economic provisions to arbitration.

Agreements  negotiated  under  guidelines  established by a national  industrial
relations authority cover wages for AWA - Australia employees.

Aluminio  negotiates  wages for both hourly and salaried  employees  annually in
compliance with government  guidelines.  Each Aluminio location,  however, has a
separate compensation package for its employees.

Research and Development
- ------------------------

Alcoa,  a technology  leader in the aluminum  industry,  engages in research and
development programs that include process and product development, and basic and
applied research.  Alcoa conducts these activities within its business units and
at Alcoa Technical Center.  Expenditures for R&D activities were $128 million in
1999,  $128 million  in  1998  and  $143 million  in  1997.  The  Company  funds
substantially all R&D expenses.



Each of the major  process/product  areas  within the Company  has a  Technology
Management  Review Board (TMRB),  consisting  of members from various  worldwide
locations.   The  TMRB  is  responsible  for  formulating  and  communicating  a
technology  strategy for its  particular  process/product  area,  developing and
managing  the  technology   portfolio  and  ensuring  the  global   transfer  of
technology.

Environmental
- -------------

Alcoa's Environment, Health and Safety Policy confirms its commitment to operate
worldwide in a manner that protects the environment and the health and safety of
employees and of the citizens of the communities where the Company operates.

Alcoa  continues its efforts to develop and  implement  modern  technology,  and
standards and procedures, to meet its Environment,  Health and Safety goals. The
Company  spent  approximately  $90  million  during  1999  for  new or  expanded
facilities for environmental  control.  Capital expenditures for such facilities
will  approximate $99 million in 2000. These figures do not include the costs of
operating these facilities.  Remediation  expenses are continuing at many of the
Company's  facilities.  See Note U on Environmental Matters in the Annual Report
to Shareholders and "Item 3 -- Legal Proceedings" below.

Alcoa's operations worldwide,  like those of others in manufacturing industries,
have in recent years become subject to  increasingly  stringent  legislation and
regulations  intended to protect human health and safety,  and the  environment.
The  Company  expects  this  trend  to  continue.   Compliance  with  new  laws,
regulations or policies could require substantial expenditures by the Company in
addition to those mentioned above.

Alcoa supports the use of sound scientific  research and realistic risk criteria
to analyze  environmental  and human  health and safety  effects  and to develop
effective laws and regulations in all countries  where it operates.  The Company
also relies on internal  standards that it applies  worldwide to ensure that its
facilities  operate  with  minimal  adverse  environmental,  health  and  safety
impacts,  even where no regulatory  requirements  exist.  Alcoa  recognizes that
recycling and pollution  prevention  offer real solutions to many  environmental
problems, and it continues vigorously to pursue efforts in these areas.

Item 2.  Properties.

See "Item 1.  Business."  Alcoa  believes that its  facilities  are suitable and
adequate for its operations.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

In the  ordinary  course  of its  business,  Alcoa is  involved  in a number  of
lawsuits  and claims,  both actual and  potential,  including  some which it has
asserted  against  others.  While the amounts  claimed may be  substantial,  the
ultimate  liability  cannot  now  be  determined  because  of  the  considerable
uncertainties that exist. It is possible that results of operations or liquidity
in a particular  period could be materially  affected by certain  contingencies.
Management believes,  however,  that the disposition of matters that are pending
or asserted will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position of
the Company.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

Alcoa is  involved  in  proceedings  under  the  Superfund  or  analogous  state
provisions  regarding  the usage,  disposal,  storage or  treatment of hazardous
substances  at a number  of  sites in the U.S.  The  Company  has  committed  to
participate,  or is engaged in  negotiations  with Federal or state  authorities
relative to its alleged  liability  for  participation,  in clean-up  efforts at
several such sites.



In response to a unilateral order issued under Section 106 of the  Comprehensive
Environmental  Compensation  and  Liability  Act of 1980  (CERCLA)  by the  U.S.
Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) Region II regarding releases of hazardous
substances,  including  polychlorinated  biphenyls (PCBs), into the Grasse River
near its Massena,  New York facility,  Alcoa has been conducting  investigations
and  studies  of the river  under  order from the EPA issued  under  CERCLA.  In
December 1999, the Company submitted an Analysis of Alternatives  report to EPA.
The report  evaluates  several  alternative  remedial  approaches for the Grasse
River.

Representatives  of various  Federal and state  agencies  and a Native  American
tribe,  acting in their  capacities  as  trustees  for natural  resources,  have
asserted  that  Alcoa may be liable for loss or damage to such  resources  under
Federal and state law based on Alcoa's operations at its Massena facility. While
formal  proceedings have not been instituted,  the Company continues to actively
investigate these claims.

In March  1994,  Alcoa and Region VI of the EPA entered  into an  administrative
order  on  consent,   EPA  Docket  No.   6-11-94,   concerning  the  Alcoa  (Pt.
Comfort)/Lavaca  Bay National  Priorities  List site that  includes  portions of
Alcoa's Pt. Comfort,  Texas bauxite  refining  operations and portions of Lavaca
Bay, Texas,  adjacent to the Company's plant. The administrative  order requires
the Company to conduct a remedial  investigation and feasibility study under EPA
oversight. Work under the administrative order is proceeding,  including actions
to fortify an offshore  dredge  disposal  island that may include the removal of
certain  mercury-contaminated  sediments  adjacent to Alcoa's  plant in and near
routinely  dredged  navigation  channels.  As required by the order, the Company
submitted  a baseline  risk  assessment  for the site.  A  Feasibility  Study is
anticipated to be filed in March 2000. The Company and certain Federal and state
natural  resource  trustees,  who  previously  served Alcoa with notice of their
intent to file suit to recover  damages  for  alleged  loss or injury of natural
resources in Lavaca Bay, have entered into several  agreements to  cooperatively
identify  restoration  alternatives and approaches for Lavaca Bay. Efforts under
those agreements are ongoing.

In March 1997, Alcoa Italia S.p.A.  received an order from Italian  governmental
authorities relating to several environmental  deficiencies at its Fusina Plant.
Alcoa  Italia  and  the  governmental  authorities  commenced  discussions  that
resulted in a plan for sampling  certain  emission  points.  During 1998,  Alcoa
Italia  sampled air emissions at the Fusina  Plant.  The results of the samples,
which  indicated  that the  emissions  are within the  authorized  limits,  were
submitted to the Italian  governmental  authorities,  who have formally notified
Alcoa Italia that the  emissions  are  satisfactory  and that the order has been
closed.

On May 13, 1998, an action was filed in the Superior Court of Riverside  County,
California  allegedly on behalf of more than 500 plaintiffs who currently  live,
or formerly lived, in the Glen Avon, California area, who claim to have suffered
personal injuries, both physical and emotional, as well as property damage, as a
result of air and water contamination due to the escape of toxic wastes from the
Stringfellow  disposal site. The complaint,  which names Alcoa,  Alumax Inc. and
more than 130 other  companies as defendants,  was served on Alcoa and Alumax in
October  1998.  Alcoa filed a motion in February  1999  stating  that claims are
barred by the  statute  of  limitations.  Amended  pleadings  were  filed by the
plaintiffs  in August  1999,  and  demurrer  motions are now pending  before the
court.

In  March  1998,  Region V of the EPA  referred  various  alleged  environmental
violations  at Alcoa's  Warrick  Operations  to the civil  division  of the U.S.
Department  of Justice  (DOJ).  The alleged  violations  stem from an April 1997
multi-media  environmental  inspection of Warrick Operations by the EPA relating
to water permit exceedances as reported on monthly discharge monitoring reports,
wastewater  toxicity  issues and alleged opacity  violations.  Alcoa and the DOJ
entered  into  a  series  of  tolling  agreements  to  suspend  the  statute  of
limitations  related to the alleged  violations in this matter. The parties have
reached final  agreement on the language of a consent decree that will formalize
settlement  of this matter.  The consent  decree will be executed by the parties
and lodged with the court during the first quarter of 2000.



In October  1998,  Region V of the EPA referred  various  alleged  environmental
violations at Alcoa's Lafayette Operations to the civil division of the DOJ. The
alleged  violations  relate to water permit  exceedances  as reported on monthly
discharge monitoring reports. Alcoa and the DOJ entered into a tolling agreement
to suspend the statute of limitations related to the alleged violations in order
to facilitate settlement discussions with the DOJ and EPA. The parties have been
unable to reach settlement on this matter. In June 1999, the DOJ and EPA filed a
complaint  against  Alcoa in the United States  District  Court for the Northern
District  of  Indiana.  Alcoa  filed a motion to dismiss  and a motion to strike
certain parts of the government's  complaint  requesting sediment remediation in
August 1999. A discovery  schedule had been entered into by the parties and this
matter is scheduled for trial in January 2002.

In March 1999,  two search  warrants were executed by various  federal and state
agencies  on  the  Alcoa  Port  Allen  works  of  Discovery  Aluminas,  Inc.,  a
subsidiary,  in Port Allen,  Louisiana.  Also in March, Discovery Aluminas, Inc.
was served with a grand jury subpoena that required the  production to a federal
grand jury of certain company records relating to alleged  environmental  issues
involving  wastewater  discharges and management of solid or hazardous wastes at
the plant. In April 1999, the Port Allen plant manager was indicted for a single
count of violating the Clean Water Act. The case has not been set for trial.  In
October  1999, a second grand jury  subpoena for  documents  was issued to Alcoa
requesting  information regarding wastewater discharges from a Port Allen plant.
Alcoa has provided a complete and timely response to the subpoena. Alcoa also is
engaged in discussions  with the U.S.  Attorney's  office and the EPA seeking to
resolve the situation.

Other Matters
- -------------

Alcoa  initiated a lawsuit in King County,  Washington  in December 1992 against
nearly  100   insurance   companies   that  provided   insurance   coverage  for
environmental  property  damage at Alcoa plant sites  between the years 1956 and
1985. The trial for the first three sites  concluded in October 1996 with a jury
verdict  partially  in Alcoa's  favor and an award of  damages to Alcoa.  In its
post-trial  decisions,  the trial  court  substantially  reduced the amount that
Alcoa will be able to recover from its  insurers on the three test sites.  Alcoa
appealed  these  rulings  to  the  Washington  Court  of  Appeals,  which,  upon
completion of briefing,  certified the appeal to the  Washington  Supreme Court.
Oral  argument was heard in January 2000. A decision by the court is expected by
the third quarter 2000.

In April 1997, German customs  authorities  conducted a search of the offices of
Alcoa VAW Hannover  Presswerk  GmbH & Co. KG (Alcoa VAW) in  Hannover,  Germany,
seeking materials relating to export  transactions dating from 1992. In November
1997, German customs authorities reported 53 documentary customs violations, and
in January 1998, the local  district  attorney  opened legal  proceedings on the
matter. Discussions between Alcoa VAW and German customs authorities continue.

Alcoa,  along  with  various  asbestos  manufacturers,  distributors  and  other
businesses, is a defendant in numerous individual lawsuits filed in the State of
Texas on behalf of persons claiming injury as a result of occupational  exposure
to asbestos at various Alcoa  facilities.  In two of these cases,  jury verdicts
were returned against the Company, and settlements have been reached.

Following the March 9, 1998  announcement of the proposed  acquisition of Alumax
by Alcoa and AMX Acquisition Corporation,  five putative class actions on behalf
of stockholders  of Alumax were filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery  against
Alumax and certain of Alumax's directors. Four of these actions also named Alcoa
as a defendant.  The  plaintiffs in those actions  alleged,  among other things,
that the  director  defendants  agreed to a buyout  of  Alumax at an  inadequate
price,  that they failed to provide  Alumax's  stockholders  with all  necessary
information  about the value of  Alumax,  that they  failed to make an  informed
decision as no market check of Alumax's value was obtained and the acquisition



was  structured  to ensure that  stockholders  would tender their shares and was
coercive. In addition, the plaintiffs alleged that the Schedules 14D-1 and 14D-9
filed by Alcoa, AMX Acquisition Corporation and Alumax, respectively,  failed to
disclose  certain  information  necessary for Alumax's  stockholders  to make an
informed decision regarding the offer and the other transactions contemplated by
the merger agreement.  Plaintiffs sought to enjoin the acquisition or to rescind
it in the event that it was consummated and to cause Alumax to implement a "full
and fair" auction for Alumax.  Plaintiffs also sought compensatory damages in an
unspecified amount, costs and disbursements, including attorneys' fees, and such
other relief as the Delaware Court of Chancery may deem appropriate.  The matter
has been dismissed.

The  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)  asserted  that Alumax and certain of its
subsidiaries  were improperly  included in the 1984, 1985, and 1986 consolidated
income tax returns of AMAX Inc. and on that basis  assessed a Federal income tax
deficiency against Alumax of $129 million. Alumax filed a petition in the United
States Tax Court  seeking a  redetermination  of the  purported  deficiency.  On
September 30, 1997, the Tax Court decided in favor of the IRS, stating that AMAX
Inc. did not have the 80% control necessary to consolidate. On October 27, 1997,
Alumax paid an aggregate of $411 million to the IRS, representing the deficiency
and accrued  interest.  On December 24, 1997, Alumax filed a notice of appeal of
the Tax Court's  decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit.  A decision  affirming the Tax Court's  decision was handed down by the
Court of Appeals on January 21, 1999.  The Company  requested a rehearing of the
issue. Under the terms of a Tax Disaffiliation  Agreement executed by Alumax and
AMAX in connection with the merger of AMAX into Cyprus Minerals  Company and the
public  distribution of all of Alumax's shares in November 1993,  Alumax assumed
responsibility for all proceedings  relating to the  above-described  deficiency
and payment of any additional taxes,  along with interest that may ultimately be
due; and Cyprus Amax Minerals  Company will share certain tax benefits that will
become available to it in the event of a final adverse determination.  An appeal
was decided against the Company, and the case has been closed.

In July 1999, Alcoa Aluminio received notice that an  administrative  proceeding
was  commenced by Brazil's  Secretary of Economic Law of the Ministry of Justice
against Brazilian producers of primary aluminum,  including Alcoa Aluminio.  The
suit alleges collusive action in the pricing of primary aluminum in violation of
Brazilian  antitrust  law.  Alcoa  Aluminio  has  presented  its  defense and is
awaiting the  decision of the  Secretary  of Economic  Law. If the  Secretary of
Economic Law determines that the antitrust law was violated, then the action may
be  further  prosecuted  by the  Administrative  Council  of  Economic  Defense.
Brazilian  law provides  for civil and  criminal  sanctions  for  violations  of
antirust  law,  including  fines  ranging from 1% to 30% of a company's  revenue
during the last fiscal year.

On  October  15,  1999,  Victoria  Shaev,  who  represents  that she is an Alcoa
shareholder, filed a purported derivative action on behalf of the Company in the
United States  District Court for the Southern  District of New York,  naming as
defendants  the  Company,  each member of Alcoa's  Board of  Directors,  certain
officers of the  Company and  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP,  Alcoa's  independent
accountants.  The  shareholder  did not make a demand  on the  Company  prior to
filing this lawsuit.  Under  relevant law, this demand is required.  The lawsuit
alleges,  among other things,  that Alcoa's proxy  statement dated March 8, 1999
contained   materially  false  and  misleading   representations  and  omissions
concerning  the  Company's  proposed  Alcoa  Stock  Incentive  Plan and that the
shareholder  approval of the plan, based upon these alleged  representations and
omissions,  was defective.  The Plaintiff  seeks to invalidate  the  shareholder
approval of the plan and enjoin its implementation. She also requests that Alcoa
pay the  costs  and  disbursements  of the  action,  including  the  fees of her
accountants, counsel and experts. The matter is being defended.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1999.

Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant.

The names, ages, positions and areas of responsibility of the executive officers
of the Registrant as of February 15, 2000 are listed below.

Paul H. O'Neill, 64, Director and Chairman of the Board. Mr. O'Neill was elected
a director  of Alcoa in 1986 and became  Chairman  of the Board in 1987.  He was
Chief Executive  Officer from June 1987 to May 1999.  Before joining Alcoa,  Mr.
O'Neill had been an officer since 1977 and  President and a director  since 1985
of International Paper Company.

Alain J. P. Belda,  56,  Director,  President and Chief Executive  Officer.  Mr.
Belda was elected to Alcoa's  Board of Directors in September  1998. He has been
Chief Executive  Officer since May 1999 and President since January 1997. He was
elected Chief  Operating  Officer in January 1997,  Executive  Vice President in
1994 and Vice Chairman in 1995.  Mr. Belda was President of Alcoa  Aluminio S.A.
in Brazil from 1979 to March 1994.  He was elected  Vice  President  of Alcoa in
1982 and, in 1989,  was given  responsibility  for all of Alcoa's  interests  in
Latin  America  (other  than  Suriname).  In  August  1991 Mr.  Belda  was named
President - Latin America for the Company.

Michael  Coleman,  49, Vice  President  and  President  - Alcoa Rigid  Packaging
Division. Mr. Coleman joined Alcoa in January 1998. He had been Vice President -
Operations  of North Star Steel from 1993 to 1994,  Executive  Vice  President -
Operations  from 1994 to 1996 and President  from 1996 through 1997. Mr. Coleman
joined North Star Steel in 1982.

L. Patrick Hassey,  54, Vice President and President - Alcoa Europe.  Mr. Hassey
joined Alcoa in 1967 and was named  Davenport Works Manager in 1985. In 1991, he
was   elected  a  Vice   President   of  Alcoa   and   appointed   President   -
Aerospace/Commercial  Rolled  Products  Division.  He was appointed  President -
Alcoa Europe in November 1997.

Barbara S. Jeremiah,  48, Vice  President-Corporate  Development.  Ms.  Jeremiah
joined Alcoa in 1977 as an attorney and was elected Assistant General Counsel in
1992 and Corporate Secretary in 1993. She was elected to her current position in
1998, where she heads Alcoa corporate development activities.

Richard B. Kelson, 53, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr.
Kelson was elected  Assistant  General Counsel in 1989,  Senior Vice President -
Environment,  Health and Safety in 1991 and Executive Vice President and General
Counsel in May 1994. He was named to his current position in May 1997.

Frank L. Lederman,  50, Vice President and Chief Technical Officer. Mr. Lederman
was Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Technical  Officer of Noranda,  Inc.,  a
Canadian-based,  diversified natural resource company, from 1988-1995. He joined
Alcoa as a Vice  President  in May 1995 and became  Chief  Technical  Officer in
December 1995. In his current  position Mr. Lederman  directs  operations of the
Alcoa Technical Center.



Joseph C. Muscari, 53, Vice President-Environment,  Health and Safety, Audit and
Compliance.  Mr. Muscari joined Alcoa in 1969 and was named President-Alcoa Asia
in 1993.  In 1997,  he was  elected  Vice  President-Audit.  He was named to his
current  position in May 1999 and is responsible  for EHS policy,  standards and
strategy and the Alcoa integrated audit process. In addition, Mr. Muscari is the
chief compliance officer for the company.

G. John  Pizzey,  54, Vice  President  and  President - Alcoa World  Alumina and
Chemicals.  Mr.  Pizzey  joined  Alcoa  of  Australia  Limited  in 1970  and was
appointed to the board of Alcoa of  Australia  as Executive  Director - Victoria
Operations and Managing  Director of Portland  Smelter  Services in 1986. He was
named President - Bauxite and Alumina  Division of Alcoa in 1994 and President -
Primary  Metals  Division  of Alcoa in  1995.  Mr.  Pizzey  was  elected  a Vice
President of Alcoa in 1996 and was appointed  President - Alcoa World Alumina in
November 1997.

Lawrence R. Purtell,  52,  Executive  Vice  President and General  Counsel.  Mr.
Purtell  joined Alcoa in November  1997.  He had been  Corporate  Secretary  and
Associate General Counsel of United Technologies  Corporation from 1989 to 1992.
Mr. Purtell was Vice  President and General  Counsel of Carrier  Corporation,  a
unit of United Technologies Corporation and international designer, manufacturer
and  marketer  of  heating,  ventilating  and  air  conditioning  equipment  and
services,  from 1992 to 1993. He was Senior Vice  President and General  Counsel
and Corporate Secretary of McDermott  International,  Inc. from 1993 to 1996. In
1996, Mr. Purtell joined Koch Industries, Inc. as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary.

Robert  F.  Slagle,   59,   Executive  Vice   President,   Human  Resources  and
Communications.  Mr. Slagle was elected  Treasurer in 1982 and Vice President in
1984. In 1986, he was named Vice President - Industrial  Chemicals and, in 1987,
Vice President - Industrial  Chemicals and U.S. Alumina  Operations.  Mr. Slagle
served as Vice  President - Raw Materials,  Alumina and Industrial  Chemicals in
1989,  and Vice  President of Alcoa and  Managing  Director - Alcoa of Australia
Limited in 1991.  He was named  President - Alcoa World  Alumina in 1996 and was
elected to his current position in November 1997.

G. Keith Turnbull,  64,  Executive Vice President - Alcoa Business  System.  Dr.
Turnbull was appointed  Assistant Director of Alcoa Laboratories in 1980. He was
named  Director -  Technology  Planning in 1982,  Vice  President  -  Technology
Planning in 1986 and Executive Vice President - Strategic  Analysis/Planning and
Information in 1991. In January 1997 he was named to his current position,  with
responsibility for company-wide implementation of the Alcoa Business System.


                                     PART II


Item 5.  Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
     Matters.

Dividend  per share  data,  high and low  prices  per  share  and the  principal
exchanges on which the Company's common stock is traded are set forth on page 65
of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders  (Annual Report) and are  incorporated
herein by reference.

On January 10, 2000, the Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one common stock
split.  The stock split is subject to the  approval of Alcoa  shareholders,  who
must approve an amendment to Alcoa's  Articles of  Incorporation to increase the
authorized  shares of Alcoa common stock at the Company's  annual meeting on May
12, 2000. If approved, shareholders of record on May 26, 2000 will receive an



additional  common share for each share held. The  additional  shares will be
distributed  on or about June 9, 2000.  Per-share  amounts  and number of shares
outstanding  have not been  adjusted  for the stock split since it is subject to
shareholder approval.

At February 14, 2000 (the record date for the Company's 2000 annual shareholders
meeting),  there were approximately  185,000 Alcoa shareholders,  including both
record  holders  and an  estimate of the number of  individual  participants  in
security position listings.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

The comparative table showing selected financial data for the Company is on page
28 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
     of Operation.

Management's review and comments on the consolidated financial statements are on
pages  29  through  38 of the  Annual  Report  and are  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information regarding quantitative and qualitative  disclosures about market
risk is on pages 35 through 37 of the Annual Report and is  incorporated  herein
by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements,  the notes  thereto and the
report of the independent  public  accountants are on pages 39 through 55 of the
Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
     Financial Disclosure.

None.


                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

The  information  regarding  Directors is contained  under the caption "Board of
Directors" on pages 5 through 11 of the Registrant's  definitive Proxy Statement
dated  February  25,  2000  (Proxy  Statement)  and is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

The  information  regarding  executive  officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A
under "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

The  information  required by Item 405 of  Regulation  S-K  contained  under the
caption  "Compliance  With  Section  16(a)  Reporting"  on page 13 of the  Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

This  information is contained  under the caption  "Executive  Compensation"  on
pages 15  through  25 of the  Proxy  Statement  and is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.  The performance graph and Report of the Compensation Committee shall
not be deemed to be "filed."

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

This  information  is contained  under the caption  "Alcoa Stock  Ownership  and
Performance"  on pages 12 through 13 of the Proxy  Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

This  information is contained under the caption  "Transactions  with Directors'
Companies"  on page 5 of the  Proxy  Statement  and is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.


                                     PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K.

     (a) The consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule and
exhibits listed below are filed as part of this report.

          (1) The Company's consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto
     and the  report  of the  independent  public  accountants  are on  pages 39
     through 55 of the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.

          (2)  The  following  report  and  schedule  should  be read  with  the
     Company's consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report:

          Independent  Accountant's Report of  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP dated
          January  10,  2000,  except for Note V, for which the date is February
          11, 2000, on the Company's  financial  statement  schedule  filed as a
          part hereof for the fiscal years ended  December  31,  1999,  1998 and
          1997.

          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts - for the fiscal years
          ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

          (3) Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                             Description *
- ------                             -------------

2.        Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Company,  RLM Acquisition Corp.
          and Reynolds Metals Company dated as of August 18, 1999,  incorporated
          by reference to exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Report on Form 8-K filed
          August 27, 1999.

3(a).     Articles of the Registrant as  amended, incorporated  by  reference to
          exhibit 3(a) to the  Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the
          year ended December 31, 1998.



3(b).     By-Laws  of  the  Registrant  as amended, incorporated by reference to
          exhibit 3(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year
          ended December 31, 1998.

10(a).    Alcoa Stock Acquisition Plan, effective January 1, 1999.

10(b).    Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan A,  incorporated  by reference to
          exhibit 10(b) to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
          file number 1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1980.

10(c).    Incentive Compensation  Plan, as  amended  effective  January 1, 1993,
          incorporated by  reference to  exhibit 10(c) to the  Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1992.

10(d).    Employees'  Excess  Benefit  Plan, Plan C, as  amended and restated in
          1994, effective January 1, 1989, incorporated  by reference to exhibit
          10(d) to the Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  file
          number 1-3610)for the year ended December 31, 1994.

10(e).    Employees'  Excess  Benefit Plan, Plan D, as amended effective October
          30, 1992, incorporated  by reference to exhibit 10(e) to the Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission  file  number  1-3610)  for the
          year ended December 31, 1992 and exhibit 10(e)(1) the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1994.

10(f).    Employment  Agreement of Paul H. O'Neill,  as amended through February
          25, 1993,  incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(h) to the Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission  file  number  1-3610)  for the
          year ended December 31, 1987,  exhibit 10(g) to the  Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1990  and  exhibit   10(f)(2)  to  the  Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1992.

10(g).    Deferred  Fee Plan for  Directors, as  amended  effective November 10,
          1995,  incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit 10(g) to the  Company's
          Annual Report on  Form 10-K  (Commission  file number  1-3610) for the
          year ended December 31, 1995.

10(h).    Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended effective
          March 10, 1995,  incorporated by  reference to  exhibit  10(h) to  the
          Company's Annual  Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number  1-3610)
          for the year ended December 31, 1994.

10(h)(1). Amendment  to  Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Non-Employee   Directors,
          effective  November  10,  1995,  incorporated  by reference to exhibit
          10(h)(1) to the Company's Annual Report on  Form 10-K (Commission file
          number 1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1995.

10(i).    Fee Continuation  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors,  incorporated  by
          reference to exhibit 10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1989.

10(i)(1). Amendment  to  Fee  Continuation  Plan  for  Non-Employee   Directors,
          effective  November 10, 1995,  incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit
          10(i)(1) to the Company's Annual  Report on Form 10-K (Commission file
          number 1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1995.



10(j).    Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended  effective  October 30, 1992,
          incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit 10(k) to the Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1992.

10(j)(1). Amendments to Deferred  Compensation Plan,  effective January 1, 1993,
          February 1,  1994 and  January 1, 1995,  incorporated by  reference to
          exhibit  10(j)(1)  to  the  Company's   Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K
          (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1994.

10(j)(2). Amendment to  Deferred  Compensation  Plan,  effective  June 1,  1995,
          incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(j)(2) to the Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-3610) for the year ended
          December 31, 1995.

10(j)(3). Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective November 1, 1998.

10(j)(4). Amendments to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 1999.

10(k).    Summary  of  the  Executive  Split  Dollar  Life Insurance Plan, dated
          November  1990,  incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit 10(m) to  the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file  number  1-3610)
          for the year ended December 31, 1990.

10(l).    Dividend Equivalent Compensation  Plan,  effective  February  3, 1997,
          incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit 10(l) to the Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

10(m).    Form  of  Indemnity  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  individual
          directors or officers, incorporated  by reference to exhibit  10(j) to
          the  Company's  Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  (Commission  file number
          1-3610) for the year ended December 31, 1987.

10(n).    Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement (364-Day), dated as of
          August 13, 1999, incorporated by reference  to  exhibit 10(n)  to  the
          Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended
          September 30, 1999.

10(o).    Revolving  Credit  Agreement (Five-Year), dated as of August 14, 1998,
          incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(o) to the Company's  Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

10(p).    Alcoa Stock  Incentive  Plan,  effective June 1, 1999, incorporated by
          reference to  exhibit 10(p) to the  Company's  Annual  Report on  Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

10(q).    Alcoa  Supplemental  Pension  Plan for Senior  Executives,   effective
          January 1, 1999, incorporated by  reference  to exhibit 10(q)  to  the
          Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1998.

10(r).    Deferred Fee Estate Enhancement Plan for Directors, effective July 10,
          1998,  incorporated  by  reference to  exhibit 10(r) to the  Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

10(s).    Alcoa  Deferred  Compensation  Estate Enhancement Plan, effective July
          10,  1998,   incorporated  by   reference  to  exhibit 10(s)  to   the
          Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1998.



10(s)(1). Amendments to Alcoa  Deferred  Compensation  Estate  Enhancement Plan,
          effective January 1, 2000.

12.       Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.       Portions of Alcoa's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

21.       Subsidiaries and Equity Entities of the Registrant.

23.       Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants.

24.       Power of Attorney for certain directors.

27.       Financial data schedule.

     *Exhibit Nos. 10(a) through 10(l) and 10(p) through 10(s)(1) are management
contracts or  compensatory  plans  required to be filed as Exhibits to this Form
10-K.

     Amendments and  modifications to other Exhibits  previously filed have been
omitted  when in the  opinion  of the  Registrant  such  Exhibits  as amended or
modified are no longer material or, in certain instances, are no longer required
to be filed as Exhibits.

     No other  instruments  defining the rights of holders of long-term  debt of
the Registrant or its  subsidiaries  have been filed as Exhibits because no such
instruments met the threshold materiality requirements under Regulation S-K. The
Registrant  agrees,  however,  to furnish a copy of any such  instruments to the
Commission upon request.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K. Alcoa filed a Form 8-K, dated  November 12,  1999,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission to report that a shareholder filed a
purported derivative action on behalf of the Company alleging that the Company's
proxy statement,  dated March 8, 1999, contained materially false and misleading
representations  and omissions  concerning  the Company's  proposed  Alcoa Stock
Incentive Plan.



                       Independent Accountant's Report on
                          Financial Statement Schedule



To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
of Alcoa Inc. (Alcoa)

Our audits of the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to in our report
dated  January 10,  2000,  except for Note V for which the date is February  11,
2000, appearing in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders of Alcoa (which report
and  consolidated  financial  statements are  incorporated  by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K) also  included an audit of the  financial  statement
schedule  listed  in Item  14(a)(2)  of this Form  10-K.  In our  opinion,  this
financial  statement  schedule  presents fairly, in all material  respects,  the
information  set  forth  therein  when  read in  conjunction  with  the  related
consolidated financial statements.


                                       /s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
                                       PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


600 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 10, 2000, except for
Note V, for which the date is
February 11, 2000







                                    SIGNATURE

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              ALCOA INC.


February 28, 2000             By  /s/Timothy S. Mock
                                  Timothy S. Mock
                                  Vice President and Controller
                                  (Also signing as Principal Accounting Officer)


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                   Title                      Date


/s/Alain J. P. Belda       President                         February 28, 2000
    Alain J. P. Belda      and Chief Executive Officer
                           (Principal Executive Officer
                           and Director)


/s/Richard B. Kelson       Executive Vice President and      February 28, 2000
    Richard B. Kelson      Chief Financial Officer
                           (Principal Financial Officer)


Kenneth W. Dam, Joseph T. Gorman,  Judith M. Gueron, Sir Ronald Hampel,  Hugh M.
Morgan, John P. Mulroney, Paul H. O'Neill, Henry B. Schacht,  Franklin A. Thomas
and Marina v.N. Whitman,  each as a Director,  on February 28, 2000, by Denis A.
Demblowski, their Attorney-in-Fact.*


*By  /s/Denis A. Demblowski
         Denis A. Demblowski
         Attorney-in-Fact
























                       Alcoa Logo




















Form A07-15899



