Item 1.    Business.

Corporate Structure and Business

We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels and timeshare properties under numerous brand names at different price and service points. Consistent with our focus on management, franchising, and licensing, we own very few of our lodging properties. We also operate, market, and develop residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations.

We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were “spun off” as a separate entity by the company formerly named “Marriott International, Inc.” We operate, franchise, or license4,424properties worldwide, with759,330rooms as of year-end2015. We believe that our portfolio of brands is the broadest of any lodging company in the world. Our principal brands are listed in the following table:

•      The Ritz-Carlton®•      Gaylord Hotels®•      Bulgari®Hotels & Resorts•      AC Hotels by Marriott®•      EDITION®•      Courtyard by Marriott®(“Courtyard®”)•      JW Marriott®•      Residence Inn by Marriott®(“Residence Inn®”)•      Autograph Collection®Hotels•      SpringHill Suites by Marriott®(“SpringHill Suites®”)•      Renaissance®Hotels•      Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®(“Fairfield Inn & Suites®”)•      Marriott Hotels®•      TownePlace Suites by Marriott®(“TownePlace Suites®”)•      Delta Hotels and Resorts®•      Protea Hotels®•      Marriott Executive Apartments®•      Moxy Hotels®•      Marriott Vacation Club®

As of year-end2015, we group operations intothreebusiness segments: North American Full-Service, North American Limited-Service, and International, and provide financial information by segment for2015,2014, and2013in Footnote No.16, “Business Segments” and Footnote No.12, “Property and Equipment.”

Pending Combination with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.

On November 15, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) to combine with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (“Starwood”). The Merger Agreement provides for the Company to combine with Starwood in a series of transactions after which Starwood will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Starwood Combination”). If these transactions are completed, shareholders of Starwood will receive 0.920 shares of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and $2.00 in cash, without interest, for each share of Starwood common stock, par value $0.01 per share, that they own immediately before these transactions. We expect that the combination will close in mid-2016, after customary conditions are satisfied, including shareholder approvals, required antitrust approvals, and the









completion of Starwood’s previously announced spin-off of its vacation ownership business, or another spin-off, split-off, analogous disposition, or sale of its vacation ownership business.

Company-Operated Properties

At year-end2015, we operated1,116properties (300,305rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners,41properties (9,206rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together, “the Operating Agreements”), andsixproperties (1,437rooms) that we own. In addition, we operated under long-term management agreements41home and condominium products (4,203units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.

Terms of our management agreements vary, but we earn a management fee that is typically composed of a base management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of our Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Many of our Operating Agreements also permit the owners to terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain performance metrics and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies. In certain circumstances, some of our management agreements allow owners to convert company-operated properties to franchised properties under our brands.

For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training, and supervising the managers and employees who are needed to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, and owners are required to reimburse us for those costs. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing, and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services, and owners are also required to reimburse us for those costs.

Franchised, Licensed, and Unconsolidated Joint Venture Properties

We have franchising, licensing, and joint venture programs that permit other hotel owners and operators and Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation (“MVW”), our former timeshare subsidiary that we spun off in 2011, to use many of our lodging brand names and systems. Under our franchising program, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from four to six percent of room revenues for all brands, plus two to three percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. We are a partner in unconsolidated joint ventures that manage hotels. Some of these joint ventures also provide services to franchised hotels. We recognize our share of these joint ventures’ net income or loss in the “Equity in earnings (losses)” caption of our Income Statements. Franchisees and joint ventures contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized reservation systems. Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under licensing agreements with MVW consisting of a fixed annual fee, adjusted for inflation, of

$50 million

plus

two

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for initial developer sales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units and

one

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for resales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units, in each case that are identified with or use the Marriott or The Ritz-Carlton marks.

At year-end2015, we had3,074franchised properties (420,562rooms),88unconsolidated joint venture properties (10,810rooms), and58licensed timeshare, fractional, and related properties (12,807units).

Residential

We use or license our trademarks for the sale of residential real estate, typically in conjunction with hotel development and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences are typically constructed and sold by third-party owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. We have used or licensed our The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels & Resorts, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, JW Marriott, and Marriott Hotels brand names and trademarks for residential real estate sales. While the worldwide residential market is very large, we believe the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive.









Seasonality

In general, business at company-operated and franchised properties fluctuates only moderately with the seasons and is relatively stable. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location.

Relationship with Major Customer

We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Host”). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No.18, “Relationship with Major Customer,” for more information.

Intellectual Property

We operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names, and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service, and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect against its unauthorized use.









Our Brand Portfolio

At year-end2015, we operated, franchised, or licensed properties in the following geographical regions:

North AmericaEuropeMiddle East & AfricaAsia PacificCaribbean & Latin AmericaTotalU.S.CanadaProperties391121027796Rooms11,5722672,9293,1667,2311,96627,131Countries and Territories111068632Properties——2—1—3Rooms——143—59—202Countries and Territories——2—1—3Properties2—2———4Rooms568—251———819Countries and Territories1—2———3Properties24164291377Rooms13,9382212,0652,70811,7643,34634,042Countries and Territories11637927Properties5323013695Rooms12,6754604,3444467854,09822,808Countries and Territories111313625Properties802363318160Rooms26,7985618,63292112,1162,56551,593Countries and Territories111627835Properties3271594184527526Rooms129,0705,35523,0716,20615,8047,771187,277Countries and Territories1119891654Properties—36————36Rooms—9,385————9,385Countries and Territories—1————1Properties——5615228Rooms——4087592,7742404,181Countries and Territories——545216Properties5—————5Rooms8,098—————8,098Countries and Territories1—————1Properties5—78———83Rooms911—9,551———10,462Countries and Territories1—6———7Properties8912549537301,037Rooms124,6304,4119,2201,0419,2434,872153,417Countries and Territories1118381546Properties6692133—1697Rooms81,3873,025307301—10985,129Countries and Territories1133—19Properties3342————336Rooms39,451299————39,750Countries and Territories11————2









North AmericaEuropeMiddle East & AfricaAsia PacificCaribbean & Latin AmericaTotalU.S.CanadaProperties74318——25768Rooms67,9462,024——31478871,072Countries and Territories11——114Properties2637————270Rooms26,272856————27,128Countries and Territories11————2Properties———102——102Rooms———9,609——9,609Countries and Territories———8——8Properties——1———1Rooms——162———162Countries and Territories——1———1Residences(1)Properties3122—2542Rooms3,623214106—632524,258Countries and Territories112—228Timeshare(2)Properties45—5—3558Rooms10,540—919—3321,01612,807Countries and Territories1—3—138Total Properties3,5111323251521951094,424Total Rooms557,47927,07862,10825,15760,48527,023759,330

(1)Figures include home and condominium products for which we manage the related owners’ association.

(2)Timeshare properties are licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names.

The Ritz-Carltonis a luxury hospitality brand where the genuine care and comfort of guests is the highest mission. Ritz-Carlton properties provide the finest personal service and facilities for its guests so that they will enjoy a warm, relaxed, yet refined ambience. The Ritz-Carlton experience enlivens the senses, instills well-being, and fulfills even the unexpressed wishes and needs of its guests. Established in 1983 with the purchase of The Ritz-Carlton, Boston and the rights to the name, the brand has grown worldwide with award-winning luxury hotels, residences, golf communities, elegant spas, innovative retail outlets, and acclaimed restaurants.

Bulgari Hotels & Resorts,developed in partnership with jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari Spa, is a collection of sophisticated, intimate luxury properties located in exclusive destinations. With properties in London, Milan, and Bali and food and beverage outlets in Tokyo, premium individuality is the rule - no detail is too small, no experience too grand. Each intimate location offers guests an exclusive celebration of contemporary design and superior service.

EDITIONis a luxury lifestyle hotel brand that combines a personal, individualized, and unique hotel experience with the global reach and scale of Marriott International and creative vision of Ian Schrager. EDITION encompasses not only great design and true innovation, but also great personal, friendly, modern service as well as outstanding, one-of-a-kind food, beverage, and entertainment offerings. Each hotel with its rare individuality, authenticity, originality, and unique ethos reflects the best of the cultural and social milieu of its location and of the time.

JW Marriottis a global luxury brand of beautiful hotels and resorts located in gateway cities and exotic destinations around the world. JW Marriott properties have awe-inspiring spaces influenced by modern residential design, exceptional amenities and culinary experiences, and warm and engaging associates delivering intuitive service. JW Marriott's elegant yet approachable positioning provides a differentiated offering in the luxury hotel market, bridging the gap between full-service hotel brands and the super luxury brands at the top of the tier.

Autograph Collection Hotelsare high personality upper-upscale and luxury independent hotels that deliver unique experiences and design across a global portfolio. Each property has been selected for its originality, rich character, uncommon details, remarkable design, or for its best-in-class resort amenities. From iconic to chic and artsy to luxurious, Autograph Collection is designed to attract guests who prefer original, locally authentic, and unique hotel experiences that other conventional brands do not offer.









Renaissance Hotelsis a global, full-service brand in the upper-upscale tier that targets lifestyle-oriented business travelers. Each Renaissance hotel offers its own personality, local flavor, and distinctive style. Innovations include the Navigator program, which helps guests discover the soul of the neighborhood, and Evenings at Renaissance, which helps guests experience the unexpected with live music, mixology demonstrations, art exhibits, and more in the comfort of the hotel lobby bars and lounges. The diverse portfolio of properties includes historic icons, modern boutiques, resorts, and convention hotels.

Marriott Hotelsis the Company’s global flagship premium brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels properties deliver premium choices, sophisticated style, and well-crafted details. Properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at resort locations. Typically, properties offer well-appointed guest rooms, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurants and lounges, concierge lounges, fitness centers, and swimming pools. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and spa facilities.

Delta Hotels and Resortsis a full-service brand, primarily serving business travelers within the upscale and upper-upscale tiers. Delta Hotels and Resorts are focused on elevating and delivering on the essentials of business travel, through pragmatic and efficient design, thoughtfully appointed guest rooms, large functional work spaces, and complimentary Wi-Fi. Located in gateway cities, suburban areas, near airports, and resort locations, properties also feature flexible meeting spaces, food and beverage options, and premium fitness centers.

Marriott Executive Apartmentsprovides international, five-star serviced apartments in emerging market gateway cities, designed for business executives who require housing outside their home country, usually for a month or longer. These one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments are designed with upscale finishes, amenities, and services, including on-site gyms and other recreational facilities, a 24-hour front desk, weekly housekeeping services, laundry facilities within the apartment, and often on-site restaurants.

Gaylord Hotelsoffers guests an entertaining, upscale experience at world-class group and convention-oriented hotels. Gaylord Hotels is a leader in the group and meetings business and complements the Company’s network of large convention hotels. Properties are designed to celebrate the heritage of their destinations near Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tennessee, Orlando, Florida, Dallas, Texas, and opening late 2018 in Aurora, Colorado. Gaylord Hotels properties typically have between 1,400 rooms and 2,900 rooms, 400,000 to 600,000 square feet of meeting and convention space, world-class dining and entertainment offerings, and retail outlets in magnificent settings.

AC Hotels by Marriottis designed to attract the next generation design-conscious business traveler in the upper-moderate tier, who seeks a sleek, modern hotel with unique European touches. With hotels across Europe, and now in North America, and coming soon to South America, AC Hotels by Marriott properties are located in destination, downtown, and lifestyle centers. Properties feature the “AC Lounge,” offering cocktails, tapas-inspired appetizers, and shareable plates, where guests can work and collaborate during the day and relax and unwind in the evening.

Courtyardis our hotel product designed for the upscale tier, and is focused primarily on transient business travel. Hotels feature functionally designed guest rooms and meeting rooms, and offer free Wi-Fi, a swimming pool, an exercise room, and The Bistro (a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day). Courtyard Refreshing Business lobby fuses functionality, aesthetics, and technology to offer guests greater control of their environment. High-tech and high-touch meet high-style, providing flexibility to work, relax, eat, drink, and socialize all at one's own pace.

Residence Innis the leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for frequent and extended stay business and leisure travelers staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, and working areas, as well as kitchens with full-size appliances. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines through free Wi-Fi, on-site exercise rooms, and comfortable places to work and relax. Additional amenities include free hot breakfast, evening social events three times a week, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and on-site laundry facilities.

SpringHill Suitesis the largest all-suites style hotel brand in the upscale tier that delivers industry leading service to guests who are enthusiastic about travel. The brand delivers a fresh and interesting hotel, focused on fusing form and function with modern décor. The suites feature proprietary West Elm furniture as a new standard. In addition, properties offer enhanced food and beverage choices, with craft beers and wine available in most markets, free hot breakfast, and fitness and wellness zones.

Fairfield Inn & Suitesis a well-established leader in the moderate tier and targets no-nonsense travelers seeking a stress-free stay experience. Fairfield is committed to supporting guests’ desire to maintain balance and momentum by providing healthy options with our free hot breakfast, 24/7 Corner Market offerings, and on property fitness facilities. The hotels feature a









multi-functional lobby and guest rooms and suite rooms that are uniquely designed for restful sleep and productivity. Fairfield is our second largest distributed brand, located across three continents from urban gateway cities and exciting leisure destinations to secondary and tertiary markets.

TownePlace Suitesis our extended-stay hotel brand in the upper-moderate tier, designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Each suite provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home office. Each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests make the best of long trips by helping them stay productive and upbeat. Additional amenities include daily housekeeping services, free hot breakfast, exercise facilities, a pool, 24-hour In A Pinch (food and beverage) Market, laundry facilities, and free Wi-Fi.

Protea Hotelsis the leading hospitality brand in Africa and boasts the highest brand awareness and largest strategic footprint among all the major hospitality brands in Africa. Competing in the moderate and upper moderate tiers, Protea Hotels is ideal for both business and leisure travelers by offering properties in primary and secondary business centers and desirable leisure destinations. Protea Hotels offers modern facilities, proactive and friendly service, and consistent amenities such as full-service restaurants, meeting spaces, complimentary Wi-Fi, and well-appointed rooms, ensuring global standards for a high quality, relaxed, and successful stay.

Moxy Hotelsis a design-led, lifestyle moderate tier brand with a chic, modern, and edgy personality. Moxy Hotels offers a vibrant and stylish public space and a fun, energetic, and lively social scene. The brand opened its first hotel in Italy in 2014 and is expanding to other European countries and the United States.

Licensed Brands

In 2011 we spun off our timeshare operations and timeshare development business through a special tax-free dividend to our shareholders of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of our then wholly owned subsidiary MVW. Before the spin-off, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment under the brand names discussed below, and in conjunction with the spin-off, we entered into licensing agreements with MVW for those brands.

Under those licensing agreements, MVW is the exclusive worldwide developer, marketer, seller, and manager of vacation ownership and related products under the Marriott Vacation Club and Grand Residences by Marriott brands. MVW is also the exclusive global developer, marketer, and seller of vacation ownership and related products under The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club brand. The Ritz-Carlton generally provides on-site management for Ritz-Carlton branded properties. We receive license fees under the licensing agreements with MVW for the following brands:

Marriott Vacation Clubis MVW’s signature offering in the upscale tier of the vacation ownership industry. Marriott Vacation Club resorts typically combine spacious accommodations with one-, two-, and three-bedroom options, living and dining areas, and in-unit kitchens and laundry facilities, with resort amenities.

Grand Residences by Marriottis an upscale tier vacation ownership and whole ownership residence brand. The ownership structure and physical products for these locations are similar to those MVW offers to Marriott Vacation Club owners, although the time period for each Grand Residences by Marriott ownership interest ranges between three and 13 weeks. MVW also offers whole ownership residential products under this brand.

The Ritz-Carlton Destination Clubis MVW’s vacation ownership offering in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club provides luxurious vacation experiences commensurate with The Ritz-Carlton brand. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts typically feature luxurious two-, three- and four-bedroom units, and luxury resort amenities.

MVW offers Marriott Rewards®Points and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®Points to its owners or potential owners as sales, tour, and financing incentives, in exchange for vacation ownership usage rights, for customer referrals, and to resolve customer service issues. MVW buys these points from our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs.

At year-end2015, MVW operated58properties, primarily in the United States, but also in other countries and territories. Many of MVW’s resorts are located adjacent to hotels we operate, such as Marriott Hotels and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.

Other Activities

Credit Card Programs.At year-end2015, we had six credit card programs in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, which include both Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards credit cards. We earn licensing fees based on card usage, and the cards are designed to encourage loyalty to our brands.









Sales and Marketing, Reservation Systems, and Loyalty Programs.We focus on increasing value for the consumer and “selling the way the customer wants to buy.” Our Look No Further®Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott reservation channel and ensures best rate integrity, strengthening consumer confidence in our brand. Our strong Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards guest recognition programs and our information-rich and easy-to-use Marriott.com website and mobile app are also integral to our success.

Marriott.com and Marriott Mobile are two of our fastest growing booking channels. Now averaging over 60 million visitors each month, and with updated designs, personalized experiences, and a new direct booking campaign - It Pays to Book Direct - Marriott.com is making it easier and more rewarding for our guests to book directly with us. Beyond the booking, Marriott Mobile also now gives our guests unprecedented access to services on-the-go, like mobile check-in and check-out (one of our most widely-used digital features). In 2015, we also launched mobile service requests at all full-service hotels around the globe where guests can use the Marriott Mobile App to engage in a two-way chat with the hotel prior to their arrival and throughout their stay. Marriott Rewards members now enjoy a superior stay experience thanks to these member-exclusive digital services. We continue to explore and test other digital offerings that could make the hotel booking and the hotel stay experience at any one of our hotels more convenient, easy, and personalized.

At year-end2015, we operated17hotel reservation centers,eightin the United States and Canada andninein other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and either lease the others or share space with an existing Marriott property. While pricing is set by our hotels, our reservation system manages and controls inventory and allows us to utilize third party agents where cost effective. Economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners and franchisees, and enhance our fee revenue.

We believe our global sales and revenue management organization is a key competitive advantage due to our unrelenting focus on optimizing our investment in people, processes, and systems. Our above-property sales deployment strategy aligns our sales efforts around the customer, reducing duplication of sales efforts by individual hotels and allowing us to cover a larger number of accounts. We also utilize innovative sophisticated revenue management systems, many of which are proprietary, which we believe provide a competitive advantage in pricing decisions, increase efficiency in analysis and decision making, and produce higher property-level revenue for the hotels in our system. Most of the hotels in our system utilize web-based programs to effectively manage the rate set up and modification processes which provides for greater pricing flexibility, reduces time spent on rate program creation and maintenance, and increases the speed to market of new products and services.

Our customer loyalty programs, Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards, had over 54 million members and 16 participating brands as of year-end2015. MVW and other program partners also participate in our rewards programs. The rewards programs yield repeat guest business by rewarding frequent stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 41 participating airline programs. We believe that our rewards programs generate substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In2015, rewards program members purchased over 50 percent of our room nights. We continue to enhance our rewards program offerings and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. Our loyal rewards member base provides a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts. See the “Rewards Programs” caption in Footnote No.2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for more information.

As we further discuss in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” later in this report, we utilize sophisticated technology and systems in our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, in our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs, and in other aspects of our business. We also make certain technologies available to our guests. Keeping pace with developments in technology is important for our operations and our competitive position. Furthermore, the integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us as we use such data for business decisions and to maintain operational efficiency.

Environmental Responsibility and Sustainable Hotels.Our sustainability strategy supports business growth, conservation of natural resources, and protecting our planet through wide-reaching environmental initiatives. Marriott’s environmental goals are to: (1) reduce energy and water consumption by 20 percent by 2020; (2) empower our hotel development partners to build sustainable hotels; (3) green our multi-billion dollar supply chain; (4) educate and inspire associates and guests to conserve and preserve; and (5) address environmental challenges through innovative conservation initiatives including rainforest protection and water conservation. We recently achieved our goal of reducing water consumption by 20 percent by 2020 and are continuing to make progress on our other 2020 goals.

We recognize our responsibility to reduce waste as well as water and energy consumption in our hotels and corporate offices. Our focus remains on continually integrating greater environmental sustainability throughout our business. In the year









ahead, we intend to build upon our progress and begin to set the stage for our next generation of sustainability goals. We were the first major hotel chain to calculate our carbon footprint and launch a plan to improve energy efficiency, conserve water, and support globally significant projects that reduce deforestation. We use Energy and Environmental Action (EEAP) plans, our best-practice auditing tool, to help our properties achieve energy and water reduction goals. Working in partnership with the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) certification, Marriott is empowering our hotel development partners to build sustainable hotels. We developed the first LEED Volume Program (LVP) for the hospitality industry to provide a streamlined path to certification through a pre-certified hotel prototype. The LEED Volume Program can save our owners 25 percent in energy and water consumption for the life of their buildings and should recover their initial investment in two to six years. Marriott has one of the largest portfolios of LEED-certified buildings in the hospitality industry (over 50), with dozens more in the development pipeline.

Global Design Division. Our Global Design division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, Global Design provides these services on a fee basis to owners and franchisees of our branded properties.

Marriott Golf.At year-end2015, Marriott Golf managed35golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners. In addition, we provide similar services to three facilities operated by others.

Competition

We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. There are approximately 873 lodging management companies in the United States, including approximately 11 that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national and international chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if it does not meet certain financial or performance criteria.

During the last recession, demand for hotel rooms declined significantly, particularly in 2009, and we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we focused these efforts on areas that had limited or no impact on the guest experience. While demand trends globally improved from 2010 through 2015, cost reductions could again become necessary if demand trends reverse. We would expect to implement any such efforts in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, in order to help maintain or increase our market share.

Affiliation with a national or regional brand is common in the U.S. lodging industry, and we believe that our brand recognition assists us in attracting and retaining guests, owners, and franchisees. In2015, approximately 70 percent of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. In the franchising business, we face a number of competitors that have strong brands and customer appeal, including Hilton, Intercontinental Hotels Group, Hyatt, Starwood, Wyndham, Accor, Choice, Carlson Rezidor, Best Western, La Quinta, and others.

Outside the United States, branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in many overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers decline, international travel accelerates, and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.

Based on lodging industry data, we have more than a 10 percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate less than a two percent share of the lodging market outside the United States. We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically generate higher Revenue per Available Room (“RevPAR”) than our direct competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our reservation systems, and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction contribute to customer preference across all of our brands.

Properties that we operate, franchise, or license are regularly upgraded to maintain their competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds to be set aside, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the properties. Properties converting to one of our brands typically complete renovations as needed in conjunction with the conversion.









Employee Relations

At year-end2015, we had approximately 127,500 employees, approximately 11,000 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive.

Environmental Compliance

The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation and development of properties complies, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such provisions has not materially impacted our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, and we do not anticipate that it will have a material impact in the future.

Internet Address and Company SEC Filings

Our Internet address is Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website, Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make all such filings available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.











