Item 1.Business.

We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels and timeshare properties under numerous brand names at different price and service points. Consistent with our focus on management, franchising, and licensing, we own very few of our lodging properties. We also operate, market, and develop residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations.

We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were “spun off” as a separate entity by the company formerly named “Marriott International, Inc.” At year-end 2012, our operations are grouped into four business segments: North American Full-Service Lodging, North American Limited-Service Lodging, International Lodging, and Luxury Lodging. The following table shows the percentage of 2012 total revenue from each of our lodging segments, as well as from unallocated corporate:



SegmentPercentage of 2012Total RevenuesNorth American Full-Service Lodging Segment50%North American Limited-Service Lodging Segment21%International Lodging Segment11%Luxury Lodging Segment15%Other unallocated corporate3%



Our North American Full-Service and North American Limited-Service segments include properties located in the United States and Canada, our Luxury segment includes worldwide properties, and our International segment includes full-service and limited-service properties located outside the United States and Canada. Unless otherwise indicated, our references to Marriott Hotels & Resorts®throughout this report include Marriott Conference Centers and JW Marriott®, references to Renaissance Hotels®include Renaissance ClubSport®, and references to Fairfield Inn & Suites®include Fairfield Inn®.



Financial information by segment and geographic area for 2012, 2011, and 2010 appears in Footnote No. 15, “Business Segments,” to our Financial Statements.















Lodging

We operate, franchise, or license3,801lodging properties worldwide, with660,394rooms as of year-end 2012 inclusive of35home and condominium products (3,927units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations. We believe that our portfolio of lodging brands is the broadest of any company in the world. Our brands are listed in the following table:



•Marriott Hotels & Resorts®•      Marriott Executive Apartments®•      JW Marriott®•      The Ritz-Carlton®•      Renaissance®Hotels•      Bulgari Hotels & Resorts•      Gaylord Hotels®•      EDITION®•      Autograph Collection®Hotels•AC Hotels by MarriottSM•      Courtyard by Marriott®(“Courtyard®”)•     Marriott Vacation Club®•Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®(“Fairfield Inn & Suites®”)•     The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club®•SpringHill Suites by Marriott®(“SpringHill Suites®”)•     The Ritz-Carlton Residences®•Residence Inn by Marriott®(“Residence Inn®”)•Grand Residences by MarriottSM•TownePlace Suites by Marriott®(“TownePlace Suites®”)

Company-Operated Lodging Properties

At year-end 2012, we operated 1,055 properties (283,736 rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners, 38 properties (9,076 rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together, “the Operating Agreements”), and 6 properties (1,155 rooms) as owned. The figures noted for properties operated under long-term management agreements include35home and condominium products (3,927units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Terms of our management agreements vary, but we earn a management fee that is typically composed of a base management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of our Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Many of our Operating Agreements also permit the owners to terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain performance metrics and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies. In certain circumstances, some of our management agreements allow owners to convert company-operated properties to franchised properties under our brands.



For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training, and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, and owners are required to reimburse us for those costs. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing, and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services, and owners are also required to reimburse us for those costs.

Franchised, Licensed, and Unconsolidated Joint Venture Lodging Properties

We have franchising, licensing, and joint venture programs that permit other hotel owners and operators and Marriott Vacations Worldwide ("MVW") to use many of our lodging brand names and systems. Under our franchising program, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from four percent to six percent of room revenues for all brands, plus two percent to three percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. We are a partner in unconsolidated joint ventures that manage hotels. Some of these unconsolidated joint ventures also provide services to franchised hotels. We recognize our share of these joint ventures' net income or loss. Franchisees and joint ventures contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized reservation systems. Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under licensing agreements with MVW consisting of a fixed annual fee of

$50 million

plus

two

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for initial developer sales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units and

one

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for resales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units, in each case that are identified with or use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton marks.









At year-end 2012, we had 2,553 franchised properties (344,314 rooms), 84 unconsolidated joint venture properties (9,084 rooms), and 65 licensed timeshare, fractional, and related properties (13,029 units).

Residential

We use or license our trademarks for the sale of residential real estate, typically in conjunction with hotel development and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences are typically constructed and sold by third-party owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. We have used or licensed our The Ritz-Carlton, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, JW Marriott, and Marriott Hotels & Resorts brand names and trademarks for residential real estate sales. While the worldwide residential market is very large, the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive.

Seasonality

In general, business at company-operated and franchised properties fluctuates only moderately with the seasons and is relatively stable. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location.

Relationship with Major Customer

We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Host”). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No. 20, “Relationship with Major Customer,” to our Financial Statements for more information.

Intellectual Property

We operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names, and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service, and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect against its unauthorized use.











Summary of Properties by Brand

At year-end 2012, we operated, franchised, or licensed the following properties by brand:

Company-OperatedFranchised / LicensedOther(3)BrandPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsU.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts13569,99518556,118——Marriott Conference Centers102,915————JW Marriott159,73572,914——Renaissance Hotels3616,4474111,801——Renaissance ClubSport——2349——Gaylord Hotels58,098————Autograph Collection——246,609——The Ritz-Carlton3811,357————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)303,598————Courtyard28344,40553470,543——Fairfield Inn & Suites31,05567560,422——SpringHill Suites294,54526830,299——Residence Inn12818,70447453,938——TownePlace Suites222,44018618,363——Timeshare(2)——5010,706——Total U.S. Locations734193,2942,446322,062——Non-U.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts13640,125339,971——JW Marriott3312,12841,016——Renaissance Hotels5417,976226,716——Autograph Collection130877485348The Ritz-Carlton4212,410————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)5329————The Ritz-Carlton Serviced Apartments4579————EDITION178————Bulgari Hotels & Resorts2117185——Marriott Executive Apartments254,066————AC Hotels by Marriott————798,736Courtyard5611,808569,797——Fairfield Inn & Suites——131,568——SpringHill Suites——2299——Residence Inn6749172,480——TownePlace Suites——2278——Timeshare(2)——152,323——Total Non-U.S. Locations365100,67317235,281849,084Total1,099293,9672,618357,343849,084



(1)Represents projects where we manage the related owners’ association. We include residential products once they possess a certificate of occupancy.

(2)Timeshare properties licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names. Includes products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out.

(3)Properties operated by unconsolidated joint ventures that hold management agreements and also provide services to franchised hotels.









Summary of Properties by Country

At year-end 2012, we operated, franchised or licensed properties in the following74countries and territories:

CountryPropertiesRoomsAmericasArgentina1318Aruba41,635Bahamas144Barbados1118Brazil51,243British Virgin Islands158Canada7415,034Cayman Islands5772Chile2485Colombia2503Costa Rica61,166Curaçao2484Dominican Republic2445Ecuador2401El Salvador1133Honduras1153Jamaica1427Mexico225,421Panama51,001Peru2453Puerto Rico72,086Saint Kitts and Nevis2541Suriname1140Trinidad and Tobago1119United States3,180515,356U.S. Virgin Islands51,095Venezuela3688Total Americas3,339550,319United Kingdom and IrelandIreland2462United Kingdom (England, Scotland, and Wales)5911,354Total United Kingdom and Ireland6111,816









Middle East and AfricaAlgeria1204Bahrain3537Egypt73,430Jordan3644Kuwait2577Oman2495Pakistan2508Qatar61,509Saudi Arabia61,651United Arab Emirates92,370Total Middle East and Africa4111,925AsiaChina6223,483Guam1436India163,909Indonesia102,263Japan103,149Malaysia73,019Philippines2657Singapore31,059South Korea51,751Thailand153,240Vietnam1336Total Asia13243,302Australia51,527Continental EuropeAzerbaijan1243Armenia2326Austria81,922Belgium5881Czech Republic61,088Denmark1401France183,801Georgia2245Germany286,524Greece1314Hungary4892Israel1342Italy213,291Kazakhstan3465Netherlands3945Poland2754Portugal61,233Romania1401Russia143,498Spain799,910Sweden2406Switzerland61,181Turkey92,442Total Continental Europe22341,505Total3,801660,394















Descriptions of Our Brands



North American Full-Service Segment, North American Limited-Service Segment,

International Segment Lodging Products



Marriott Hotels & Resortsis our global flagship brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties seek to be "brilliant hosts" to guests who blend life and work and who are inspired by how modern travel enhances both. Properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at resort locations.



Typically, properties contain 300 to 700 well-appointed rooms, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurants and lounges, room service, concierge lounges, fitness centers, swimming pools, wireless Internet access in public spaces, and parking facilities.Sixteenproperties have over 1,000 rooms. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and spa facilities. New and renovated properties typically showcase the Marriott Greatroom lobby experience, dynamic public spaces that flex to meet a wide variety of the social, mobile, and collaborative behaviors of today's traveler. Many properties feature the new Marriott guest room, a contemporary residential design with rich woods and architectural detail, flat-screen high-definition televisions, in-room high-speed Internet access, “plug ‘n play” technology, and bathrooms embodying spa-like luxury. At year-end 2012, there were489Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties (176,209rooms), excluding JW Marriott and Marriott Conference Centers.



At year-end 2012, there were10Marriott Conference Centers(2,915rooms) throughout the United States. Some of the centers are used exclusively by employees of sponsoring organizations, while others are marketed to outside meeting groups and individuals. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott Hotels & Resorts property, the centers typically include expanded meeting room space, banquet and dining facilities, and recreational facilities.



JW Marriottis a global luxury brand made up of a collection of beautiful properties and resorts that cater to accomplished, discerning travelers seeking an elegant environment with discreet personal service. JW Marriott's elegant yet approachable positioning provides a differentiated offering in the luxury hotel market, bridging the gap between full service hotel brands and the super luxury brands at the top of the tier. At year-end 2012, there were59properties (25,793rooms) primarily located in gateway cities and upscale locations throughout the world. JW Marriott offers anticipatory service and exceptional amenities, many with world-class golf and spa facilities. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott Hotels & Resorts property, the facilities and amenities at JW Marriott properties normally include larger guest rooms, higher-end décor and furnishings, upgraded in-room amenities, upgraded executive lounges, business centers and fitness centers, and 24-hour room service.



Marriott Hotels & Resorts, Marriott Conference Centers, and JW MarriottGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (42 states and the District of Columbia)352(141,677 rooms)Non-U.S. (58 countries and territories)Americas49Continental Europe41United Kingdom and Ireland51Asia42Middle East and Africa19Australia4Total Non-U.S.206(63,240 rooms)



Renaissance Hotelsis a global, full-service brand that targets lifestyle-oriented business travelers who are "discoverers at heart" and who value business travel as a way to explore the world. Each Renaissance hotel offers its own personality, local flavor, and distinctive style and provides guests the opportunity to discover something new at every turn. Two innovations include the Navigator program, which helps guests discover authentic local establishments, and RLife®LIVE, which helps guests discover emerging talent in music, films, arts, and more. For group customers, Renaissance offers R.E.N. Meetings, which includesRenaissance sensory meeting space and table settings,Entertainment with RLife LIVE, andNavigator local experts, all built on our company's trusted meetings expertise and heritage.











Renaissance Hotels' diverse portfolio includes historic icons, modern boutiques, exotic resorts, and convention hotels. Most properties contain from 250 to 500 rooms, featuring modern chic design, lively bars and lounges, and creative meeting and banquet facilities. At year-end 2012, there were155Renaissance Hotels properties (53,289rooms), including two Renaissance ClubSport properties (349rooms).



Renaissance HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (28 states and the District of Columbia)79(28,597 rooms)Non-U.S. (33 countries and territories)Americas9Continental Europe31United Kingdom and Ireland4Asia29Middle East and Africa3Total Non-U.S.76(24,692 rooms)



Autograph Collection Hotels.The Autograph Collection is a diverse group of upper-upscale and luxury independent hotels located in major cities and desired destinations worldwide. Hotels are selected for uncompromising quality, rich character, and uncommon details. Autograph Collection hotels reflect the adventurous spirit of the guests who seek them out. Each property in the Collection offers unique décor, design, and guest experiences, providing our company the opportunity to attract new guests who prefer original and varying hotel experiences that our other brands do not offer. The Collection provides owners of high-quality hotels with a much stronger consumer offering through our leading reservations and marketing platforms and our world-class rewards programs. At year-end 2012, there were37Autograph Collection properties (8,013rooms) operating in nine countries and territories.



Autograph Collection HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (13 states)24(6,609 rooms)Non-U.S. (8 countries and territories)Americas2Continental Europe10Asia1Total Non-U.S.13(1,404 rooms)

Gaylord Hotels.

With its world-class group and convention-oriented hotels, Gaylord Hotels is a leader in the group and meetings business and complements our existing network of large convention hotels. Gaylord Hotels properties are located in Prince George's County, Maryland near Washington, D.C. (Gaylord National

®

), in Nashville, Tennessee (Gaylord Opryland

®

and the Inn at Opryland), in Kissimmee, Florida near Orlando (Gaylord Palms

®

) and in Lake Grapevine, Texas, near Dallas (Gaylord Texan

®

). Gaylord Hotels properties are designed to celebrate the heritage of their destinations. Properties typically have between approximately 1,400 rooms and 2,900 rooms, extensive meeting and convention space ranging from 400,000 to 600,000 square feet, from four to 15 restaurants, eateries and bars, and retail outlets serving groups and transient travelers. Fueled by the brand’s hallmark "Everything in one place" concept, each Gaylord Hotels resort blends magnificent settings, luxurious rooms, and world-class dining and entertainment offerings. Gaylord Hotels properties invite their guests to experience live music, dining, dancing, sporting activities, shopping, golf, movies, and more, all in one place. We also manage the Gaylord Springs Golf Links, the Wildhorse Saloon, and the General Jackson Showboat located at or near the Gaylord Opryland in Nashville. At year-end 2012, there were

five

Gaylord Hotels properties (

8,098

rooms, including the 303 room Inn at Opryland) operating in the United States.



AC Hotels by Marriott.We are a partner with AC Hoteles, S.A. of Spain in joint ventures that created the “AC Hotels by Marriott” co-brand. AC Hotels by Marriott is designed to attract the upper-moderate design-conscious guest looking for a cosmopolitan hotel in a great city location. The brand features stylish, sleek designs with limited food and beverage offerings. AC Hotels typically contain 50 to 150 rooms and are located in destination, downtown, and suburban markets. Each hotel has its own unique style and character, but all feature the signature “AC Bed” with four large pillows and built-in reading light.









Other hotel amenities include a mini-bar, 24-hour room service, laundry service, exclusive bathroom amenities, writing desk, and Wi-Fi. AC Hotels also feature “AC Fitness” centers with state-of-the-art exercise equipment and the “AC Lounge” where guests can relax and unwind. Small meeting rooms can be found in most hotels that enable guests to have private board meetings or intimate social gatherings. At year-end 2012, there were79AC Hotels by Marriott properties (8,736rooms) in Spain, Italy, France, and Portugal.



Courtyard

is our hotel product designed for the upper-moderate price tier. Focused primarily on transient business travel, Courtyard hotels are designed to offer a refreshing environment to help guests stay connected, productive, and balanced, while accommodating their need for choice and control when traveling. The hotels typically contain 90 to 150 rooms in suburban locales and 140 to 340 rooms in downtown domestic and international locales. Well-landscaped grounds typically include a courtyard with a pool and outdoor social areas. Hotels feature functionally designed guest rooms and meeting rooms, free in-room high-speed Internet access, free wireless high-speed Internet access (Wi-Fi) in the lobby (in North America), a swimming pool, an exercise room, and

The Market

(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day). While many hotels currently offer a breakfast buffet, the brand is transitioning to a new state-of-the-art lobby design and new food and beverage concept called The Bistro - Eat. Drink. Connect.

®

This paid food and beverage guest service offers fresh and healthy meals for both breakfast and dinner along with Starbucks

®

Coffee, specialty espresso drinks, and a full evening bar service. The multifunctional lobby space enables guests to work, relax, eat, drink, and socialize at their own pace, taking advantage of enhanced technology and The Bistro’s offerings. We are implementing this new, sophisticated lobby design to keep Courtyard well positioned against its competition by providing better value through superior facilities, technology, and service to generate stronger connections with our guests. At year-end 2012, over 70 percent of our North American Courtyard hotels had completed the new lobby design.



At year-end 2012, there were


Courtyard properties (

136,553

rooms) operating in 38 countries and territories.



CourtyardGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)817(114,948 rooms)Non-U.S. (37 countries and territories)Americas42Continental Europe43United Kingdom and Ireland1Asia21Middle East and Africa4Australia1Total Non-U.S.112(21,605 rooms)



Fairfield Inn & Suites

(which includes Fairfield Inn and Fairfield Inn & Suites) is an established leader in the moderate-price tier segment and is targeted primarily at value-conscious business travelers. Fairfield Inn & Suites’ new prototype provides owners and investors with options and flexibility to meet specific market needs. Whether the hotel is located in an urban, secondary, or tertiary market, this innovative design allows owners to adapt the model based on location and site requirements. A typical Fairfield Inn & Suites or Fairfield Inn property has 60 to 140 rooms in suburban locations and up to 200 rooms in urban destinations. Fairfield Inn & Suites offers a wide range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), a business center/lobby computer with Internet access and print capability, complimentary hot continental breakfast buffet,

The Market

(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day, at most locations), exercise facilities (at most locations), and a swimming pool. Additionally, suite rooms (approximately 25 percent of the rooms at a typical Fairfield Inn & Suites) provide guests with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing as well as in-room amenities including a microwave and refrigerator. At year-end 2012, there were 457 Fairfield Inn & Suites properties and 234 Fairfield Inn properties (

63,045

rooms combined total) operating in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.



Fairfield Inn & Suites and Fairfield InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)678(61,477 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (Canada and Mexico)13(1,568 rooms)















Residence Innis North America’s leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for frequent and extended stay business and leisure travelers staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, and working areas, as well as kitchens with full-size appliances. Building on the brand’s innovative spirit, Residence Inn is evolving to better support our guests with our new guest room designs, featuring a new desk design that offers room to spread out and work in comfort, a signature sofa that offers a place to work and relax, and an updated bath area with thoughtful storage. Additionally, we have created a fresh, stylish, residential design for the lobby space to encourage guests to enjoy time with friends and family outside their suites. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines through free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site exercise options, and comfortable places to work or relax. Additional amenities include free hot breakfast and evening social events, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2012, there were625Residence Inn properties (75,871rooms) operating in six countries and territories.



Residence InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012PropertiesUnited States (48 states and the District of Columbia)602(72,642 rooms)Non-U.S. (5 countries and territories)Americas20Continental Europe1United Kingdom and Ireland1Middle East and Africa1Total Non-U.S.23(3,229 rooms)



SpringHill Suitesis our all-suite brand in the upper-moderate-price tier primarily targeting business and leisure travelers who are looking for extra space and style with a great value. Fusing form and function with modern décor and creature comforts like great bedding, good food, and fitness options, SpringHill Suites delivers a stimulating and enriching experience for its target guests, who are "independent social explorers" looking for extra space and style with a great value. SpringHill Suites properties typically have 90 to 165 suites that have approximately 25 percent more space than a traditional hotel guest room with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing. The brand offers a broad range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day), complimentary hot breakfast buffet, lobby computer and on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), exercise facilities, and a swimming pool. At year-end 2012, there were297properties (34,844rooms) operating in the United States and2properties (299rooms) in Canada.



TownePlace Suitesis a moderately priced extended-stay hotel brand designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Created for the self-sufficient, value-conscious traveler who has a preference for a simple, comfortable and convenient hotel experience, each suite provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home office. TownePlace Suites associates provide insightful local knowledge, and each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests settle in, maintain their day-to-day routine, and connect to the local area. Additional amenities include housekeeping services, breakfast, on-site exercise facilities, a pool, 24-hour staffing, free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2012, there were208properties (20,803rooms) operating in the United States (42 states) andtwoproperties (278rooms) operating in Canada.



Marriott Executive Apartmentsprovide temporary housing (“Serviced Apartments”) for business executives and others who need quality accommodations outside their home country, usually for 30 or more days. These full-service apartments are designed with upscale finishes and a wide variety of amenities including a 24-hour front desk, housekeeping services, and on-site laundry facilities. With all the space of a high-end apartment and all the services of our skilled staff, Marriott Executive Apartments offers a truly unique solution for long-term international guests. At year-end 2012, 23 Marriott Executive Apartments and two other Serviced Apartments properties (4,066rooms total) were located in 16 countries and territories. All Marriott Executive Apartments are located outside the United States.



Luxury Segment Lodging Products



The Ritz-Carltonis one of the world's leading global luxury lifestyle brands, with hotels and resorts renowned for their extraordinary locations, inspired design, and legendary service. The brand, designed to appeal to the guest who enjoys genuine care and comfort, seeks to provide unique, memorable, and personal experiences that transcend luxury hospitality and create indelible marks in guests' lives. The Ritz-Carlton properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, restaurants led by celebrity chefs, championship golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, twice-daily housekeeping, fitness









and business centers, meeting and banquet facilities, concierge services, and The Ritz-Carlton Club®Level.The Ritz-Carlton is a highly reputable, award-winning organization and the only service company to have twice earned the prestigious Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. At year-end 2012, there were84The Ritz-Carlton hotel properties (24,346rooms) and35home and condominium projects (3,927units) for which we manage the related owners' associations operating in 28 countries and territories.



The Ritz-CarltonGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2012(1)PropertiesUnited States (17 states and the District of Columbia)68(14,955 rooms)Non-U.S. (27 countries and territories)Americas12Continental Europe8United Kingdom and Ireland1Asia21Middle East and Africa9Total Non-U.S.51(13,318 rooms)



(1)Includes35home and condominium projects (3,927units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Bulgari Hotels & Resorts.Bulgari Hotels & Resorts is the product of a joint venture between us and Italian jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari SpA. The Bulgari Hotels & Resorts brand offers distinctive luxury hotel properties located in gateway cities and exclusive resorts around the world. These innovative hotels combine Bulgari style with incredible service in an informal yet impeccable setting, providing a flawless experience sought by the most discriminating guests. At year-end 2012, there were three Bulgari properties: the Bulgari Milan Hotel (58 rooms), in Milan, Italy, the Bulgari Bali Resort (59 private villas, two restaurants, and comprehensive spa facilities), and the Bulgari Hotel in London, England (85 rooms) overlooking Hyde Park and Knightsbridge. We also operate two restaurants in Tokyo, Japan, which are co-located with two Bulgari retail stores. The hotels are designed by renowned Italian designer Antonio Citterio and the furnishings and detailing embody the idea of contemporary luxury. We operate all of the Bulgari Hotels & Resorts brand properties and restaurants other than the hotel in London, which is franchised. Other projects are currently in various stages of development in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and North America.



EDITION.In collaboration with hotel innovator Ian Schrager, EDITION is a brand of next-generation luxury lifestyle boutique hotels designed by Schrager and operated by Marriott. EDITION hotels offer a personal, intimate, individualized, and unique lodging experience on a global scale. The brand’s approach and attitude toward the modern lifestyle provides a unifying aesthetic, with exceptional design, the highest quality, character and originality, and impeccable service. EDITION showcases the finest dining and entertainment options, services, amenities and offerings for guests and locals in the know. At year-end 2012, the brand operated an award-winning 78-room hotel in Istanbul, Turkey and is scheduled to open hotels in London (2013), Miami Beach (2014), New York (2014), Bangkok (2015), Abu Dhabi (2015), Sanya, China (2015), and Gurgaon, India (2015), with other projects under development in key locations around the world. While we are developing and constructing the EDITION hotels in London, Miami Beach, and New York with our own funds, we intend to sell these hotels to third parties as soon as possible and retain long-term management agreements.



Licensed Timeshare Brands



On November 21, 2011 ("the spin-off date"), we completed a spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business through a special tax-free dividend to our shareholders of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of our then wholly owned subsidiary MVW. Before the spin-off date, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment under four brand names - Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott. In conjunction with the spin-off, we entered into licensing agreements with MVW for MVW’s use of the Marriott timeshare and Ritz-Carlton fractional brands. See Footnote No. 16, "Spin-off," to our Financial Statements for more information on the spin-off.











Under the licensing agreements, MVW is the exclusive worldwide developer, marketer, seller, and manager of vacation ownership and related products under the Marriott Vacation Club and Grand Residences by Marriott brands. MVW is also the exclusive global developer, marketer, and seller of vacation ownership and related products under The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club brand. Ritz-Carlton generally provides on-site management for Ritz-Carlton branded properties. We receive license fees under the licensing agreements with MVW.



Many resorts are located adjacent to hotels we operate, such as Marriott Hotels & Resorts and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.



We license the following brands to MVW:

Marriott Vacation Clubis MVW's signature offering in the upscale tier of the vacation ownership industry. Marriott Vacation Club resorts typically combine many of the comforts of home, such as spacious accommodations with one-, two- and three-bedroom options, living and dining areas, and in-unit kitchens and laundry facilities, with resort amenities such as large feature swimming pools, restaurants and bars, convenience stores, and fitness facilities and spas, as well as sports and recreation facilities appropriate for each resort's unique location.

Grand Residences by Marriottis an upscale tier vacation ownership and whole ownership residence brand. MVW's vacation ownership products under this brand include multi-week ownership interests. The ownership structure and physical products for these locations are similar to those MVW offers to Marriott Vacation Club owners, although the time period for each Grand Residences by Marriott ownership interest ranges between three and 13 weeks. MVW also offers whole ownership residential products under this brand.

The Ritz-Carlton Destination Clubis MVW's vacation ownership offering in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club provides luxurious vacation experiences commensurate with The Ritz-Carlton brand. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts typically feature two-, three- and four-bedroom units that generally include marble foyers, walk-in closets, custom kitchen cabinetry, and luxury resort amenities such as large feature pools and full-service restaurants and bars. We deliver on-site services, which usually include daily maid service, valet, in-residence dining, and access to fitness facilities as well as spa and sports facilities as appropriate for each destination, through our Ritz-Carlton subsidiary.

The Ritz-Carlton Residencesis a whole ownership residence brand in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Residences include luxury residential condominiums and home sites for luxury home construction co-located with certain The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts. Owners can typically purchase condominiums that vary in size from one-bedroom apartments to spacious penthouses. The Ritz-Carlton Residences are situated in settings ranging from city center locations to golf and beach communities with private homes where residents can avail themselves of the services and facilities on an a la carte basis that are associated with the co-located The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resort. We deliver on-site services through our Ritz-Carlton subsidiary. While the worldwide residential market is very large, the luxurious nature of The Ritz-Carlton Residences properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with The Ritz-Carlton brand, and the hospitality services that are provided all make The Ritz-Carlton Residences properties distinctive.



MVW offers Marriott Rewards®Points and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®Points to its owners or potential owners as sales, tour, and financing incentives, in exchange for vacation ownership usage rights, for customer referrals, and to resolve customer service issues. MVW buys these points from our Marriott Rewards and Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs.



At year-end 2012, MVW operated65properties, primarily in the United States, but also in other countries and territories.

Other Activities

Credit Card Programs.At year-end 2012, we had six credit card programs in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, which include both Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards credit cards. We earn licensing fees based on card usage, and the cards are designed to encourage loyalty to our brands.



Sales and Marketing, Loyalty Programs, and Reservation Systems.We focus on increasing value for the consumer and “selling the way the customer wants to buy.” Our Look No Further®Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott reservation channel. Our strong Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs and our information-rich and easy-to-use Marriott.com website are also key to our success.











With nearly 34 million visitors each month and $8.1 billion in annual property-level gross revenues, Marriott.com remains one of the largest online retail sites in the world, and one of the fastest growing sales channels in our system. In 2012, continued improvements to our mobile services helped Marriott Mobile become the third largest mobile commerce platform after Amazon.com and Apple, according to Internet Retailer (September 2012). We continue to enhance our mobile offerings to make it easier for our guests to find and book our hotels on the go and enhance their experiences during their stay. In 2012, we introduced Marriott.jp, adding Japanese language capability to our online platforms. Together with Spanish, German, French, and Chinese, our guests now have a wider selection of languages with which to discover our properties.



We are a founding venture partner along with five other major hotel chains in Roomkey.com, an industry online referral and lead generation site. Roomkey.com launched in January 2012 and allows consumers to research hotel options across multiple brands. When a Roomkey.com customer selects a hotel with one of our brands, the customer books directly on Marriott.com. We expect Roomkey.com will be a more cost-effective and efficient business model for properties in our system than other online travel sites.



At year-end 2012, we operated15systemwide hotel reservation centers,eightin the United States and Canada andsevenin other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and lease the others. Our reservation system manages and controls inventory availability and pricing set by our hotels and allows us to utilize online and offline agents where cost effective. With over 3,800 properties in our system, economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners and franchisees, and enhance our fee revenue.



Our global sales and revenue management organization focuses on optimizing our investment in people, processes, and systems and develops and implements plans and strategies that are tailored to specific markets around the world. Our above-property sales deployment strategy aligns our sales efforts around customer needs, reducing duplication of sales efforts by individual hotels and allowing us to cover a larger number of accounts. We consider our new global sales and revenue management organizationto bea key competitive advantage for us. We utilize innovative sophisticated revenue management systems, many of which are proprietary, that provide a competitive advantage in pricing decisions, increase efficiency in analysis and decision making, and produce increased property-level revenue for the hotels in our system. Most of the hotels in our system utilize web-based programs to effectively manage the rate set up and modification processes which provides for greater pricing flexibility, reduces time spent on rate program creation and maintenance, and increases the speed to market of new products and services. For our company-managed hotels in North America, at year-end 2012, approximately one-third of our sales staff worked on-property, approximately one-third worked in outside sales (spending the majority of their time meeting in customer offices), and approximately one-third responded to customer requests in state-of-the-art sales offices.



Our customer loyalty programs, Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards, have over 41 million members and 14 participating brands. MVW and other program partners also participate in our rewards programs. The rewards programs yield repeat guest business by rewarding frequent stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 35 participating airline programs. We believe that our rewards programs generate substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In 2012, rewards program members purchased over 50 percent of our room nights. We continue to enhance our rewards program offerings and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. Our loyal rewards member base provides a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts. See the "Our Rewards Programs" caption in Footnote No. 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for more information.



As we further discuss in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” later in this report, we utilize sophisticated technology and systems in our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, in our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs, and in other aspects of our business. We also make certain technologies available to our guests. Keeping pace with developments in technology is important for our operations and our competitive position. Furthermore, the integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us as we use such data for business decisions and to maintain operational efficiency.



Environmental Responsibility and "Green" Hotels.Building on more than 20 years of energy conservation experience, we are committed to protecting the environment. Our “Spirit to Preserve®” environmental strategy calls for: greening our multi-billion dollar supply chain; further reducing fuel and water consumption; empowering our hotel development partners to build green hotels; educating and inspiring employees and guests to conserve and preserve; and investing in innovative, large-scale conservation projects worldwide.



We were the first in the hospitality industry to launch a series of green hotel prototypes that have been pre-approved by U.S. Green Building Council (“USGBC”) as part of its Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (“LEED”) Volume program, meaning that any hotel that follows these plans will earn basic LEED®certification, or possibly higher, upon final









USGBC approval while also reducing energy and water consumption up to 25 percent. We are also the first in our industry to offer a green hotel prototype for five brands: Courtyard, SpringHill Suites, Fairfield Inn & Suites, Residence Inn, and TownePlace Suites. Our first two LEED Volume hotels, the Courtyard Scottsdale Salt River in Arizona and the TownePlace Suites Denver Airport at Gateway Park in Colorado opened in the second quarter of 2012. We also opened the Courtyard Kansas City at Briarcliff in Missouri in the third quarter of 2012 and the TownePlace Suites Frederick in Frederick, Maryland in the fourth quarter of 2012. Nine additional LEED Volume hotel projects are in development or under construction.



Our Architecture and Construction (“A&C”) division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, A&C provides these services for owners and franchisees of Marriott-branded properties on a fee basis.



Marriott Golf.At year-end 2012, Marriott Golf managed37golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners. In addition, we provide certain services to six facilities operated by others.

Competition.We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. There are approximately 850 lodging management companies in the United States, including approximately 10 that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or performance criteria are not met.



During the recent recession we experienced a significant reduction in demand for hotel rooms, particularly in 2009, and we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we focused these efforts on areas that had limited or no impact on the guest experience. While demand trends globally improved in 2010, 2011, and 2012, additional cost reductions could become necessary to preserve operating margins if demand trends reverse. If any such efforts become necessary, we would expect to implement them in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, in order to help maintain or increase our market share.



Affiliation with a national or regional brand is prevalent in the U.S. lodging industry, and we believe that our brand recognition gives us a competitive advantage in attracting and retaining guests, owners and franchisees. In 2012, approximately 69 percent of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. The franchising business is concentrated, with the six largest franchisors operating multiple brands accounting for a significant proportion of all U.S. rooms.



Outside the United States, branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers are reduced, international travel accelerates, and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.



Based on lodging industry data, we have approximately a ten percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate a one percent share of the lodging market outside the United States. We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically generate higher occupancies and Revenue per Available Room (“RevPAR”) than our direct competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our reservation systems, and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction are contributing factors across all of our brands.



Properties that we operate, franchise, or license are regularly upgraded to maintain their competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the properties. Properties converting to one of our brands typically complete renovations as needed in conjunction with the conversion.



Employee Relations

At year-end 2012, we had approximately 127,000 employees, approximately 9,900 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive.











Environmental Compliance

The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation of properties and our development of properties comply, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Our compliance with such provisions also has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, and we do not anticipate that such compliance will have a material impact in the future.



Internet Address and Company SEC Filings

Our Internet address is Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website, Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. All such filings are available free of charge and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.













