Item 1.    Business.

We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels and timeshare properties under numerous brand names at different price and service points. Consistent with our focus on management, franchising, and licensing, we own very few of our lodging properties. We also operate, market, and develop residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations.

We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were “spun off” as a separate entity by the company formerly named “Marriott International, Inc.” We operate, franchise, or license3,916properties worldwide, with675,623rooms as of year-end2013inclusive of40home and condominium products (4,228units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations. We believe that our portfolio of brands is the broadest of any lodging company in the world. Our brands are listed in the following table:



•Marriott Hotels®•TownePlace Suites by Marriott®(“TownePlace Suites®”)•      JW Marriott®•      Marriott Executive Apartments®•      Renaissance®Hotels•      The Ritz-Carlton®•      Gaylord Hotels®•      Bulgari Hotels & Resorts•      Autograph Collection®Hotels•      EDITION®•      Moxy HotelsSM*•AC Hotels by MarriottSM•      Courtyard by Marriott®(“Courtyard®”)•     Marriott Vacation Club®•Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®(“Fairfield Inn & Suites®”)•     The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club®•SpringHill Suites by Marriott®(“SpringHill Suites®”)•     The Ritz-Carlton Residences®•Residence Inn by Marriott®(“Residence Inn®”)•Grand Residences by MarriottSM* At year-end 2013, no Moxy properties were yet open.









Our operations are grouped into four business segments: North American Full-Service, North American Limited-Service, International, and Luxury. Financial information by segment and geographic area for2013,2012, and2011appears in Footnote No. 14, “Business Segments.”

Company-Operated Properties

At year-end2013, we operated 1,057 properties (283,029 rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners, 35 properties (8,542 rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together, “the Operating Agreements”), and 9 properties (1,960 rooms) as owned. The figures noted for properties operated under long-term management agreements include40home and condominium products (4,228units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Terms of our management agreements vary, but we earn a management fee that is typically composed of a base management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of our Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Many of our Operating Agreements also permit the owners to terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain performance metrics and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies. In certain circumstances, some of our management agreements allow owners to convert company-operated properties to franchised properties under our brands.



For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training, and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, and owners are required to reimburse us for those costs. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing, and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services, and owners are also required to reimburse us for those costs.

Franchised, Licensed, and Unconsolidated Joint Venture Properties

We have franchising, licensing, and joint venture programs that permit other hotel owners and operators and Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation ("MVW") to use many of our lodging brand names and systems. Under our franchising program, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from four percent to six percent of room revenues for all brands, plus two percent to three percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. We are a partner in unconsolidated joint ventures that manage hotels. Some of these unconsolidated joint ventures also provide services to franchised hotels. We recognize our share of these joint ventures' net income or loss. Franchisees and joint ventures contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized reservation systems. Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under licensing agreements with MVW consisting of a fixed annual fee of

$50 million

plus

two

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for initial developer sales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units and

one

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for resales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units, in each case that are identified with or use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton marks.



At year-end 2013, we had 2,673 franchised properties (360,451 rooms), 80 unconsolidated joint venture properties (8,839 rooms), and 62 licensed timeshare, fractional, and related properties (12,802 units).

Residential

We use or license our trademarks for the sale of residential real estate, typically in conjunction with hotel development and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences are typically constructed and sold by third-party owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. We have used or licensed our The Ritz-Carlton, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, JW Marriott, and Marriott Hotels brand names and trademarks for residential real estate sales. While the worldwide residential market is very large, we believe the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive.

Seasonality

In general, business at company-operated and franchised properties fluctuates only moderately with the seasons and is relatively stable. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location.









Relationship with Major Customer

We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Host”). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No. 19, “Relationship with Major Customer,” for more information.

Intellectual Property

We operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names, and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service, and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect against its unauthorized use.











Summary of Properties by Brand

At year-end2013, we operated, franchised, or licensed the following properties by brand:

Company-OperatedFranchised / LicensedOther(3)BrandPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsU.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels13067,76218255,534——Marriott Conference Centers102,915————JW Marriott159,73572,914——Renaissance Hotels3315,0354111,805——Renaissance ClubSport®——2349——Gaylord Hotels58,098————Autograph Collection——328,410——The Ritz-Carlton3711,040————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)303,598————Courtyard27443,20056274,493——Fairfield Inn & Suites41,19768761,724——SpringHill Suites294,58227731,306——Residence Inn12217,65350758,403——TownePlace Suites222,44020019,599——Timeshare(2)——4710,506——Total U.S. Locations711187,2552,544335,043——Non-U.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels13740,4563710,757——JW Marriott3713,81241,016——Renaissance Hotels5517,991226,720——Autograph Collection2395172,3105348The Ritz-Carlton4713,950————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)9575155——The Ritz-Carlton Serviced Apartments4579————EDITION2251————Bulgari Hotels & Resorts2117185——Marriott Executive Apartments274,295————AC Hotels by Marriott————758,491Courtyard6112,958569,898——Fairfield Inn & Suites1148161,896——SpringHill Suites——2299——Residence Inn6749182,600——TownePlace Suites——2278——Timeshare(2)——152,296——Total Non-U.S. Locations390106,27619138,210808,839Total1,101293,5312,735373,253808,839



(1)Represents projects where we manage the related owners’ association. We include residential products once they possess a certificate of occupancy.

(2)Timeshare properties licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names. Includes products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out. MVW's property and room counts are reported on a fiscal year basis for the MVW year ended January 3, 2014.

(3)Properties operated by unconsolidated joint ventures that hold management agreements and also provide services to franchised properties.









Summary of Properties by Country

At year-end2013, we operated, franchised or licensed properties in the following72countries and territories:

CountryPropertiesRoomsAmericasAruba51,955Bahamas117Barbados1118Brazil51,243British Virgin Islands158Canada8015,749Cayman Islands5772Chile2485Colombia3673Costa Rica71,222Curaçao2484Dominican Republic2445Ecuador2401El Salvador1133Honduras1153Mexico235,561Panama51,001Peru2453Puerto Rico92,226Saint Kitts and Nevis2541Suriname1140Trinidad and Tobago1119United States3,255522,298U.S. Virgin Islands51,095Venezuela3688Total Americas3,424558,030United Kingdom and IrelandIreland2454United Kingdom (England, Scotland, and Wales)6412,191Total United Kingdom and Ireland6612,645









Middle East and AfricaAlgeria1204Bahrain3537Egypt83,763Jordan3644Kuwait2577Oman2495Pakistan2508Qatar61,509Saudi Arabia71,800United Arab Emirates103,058Total Middle East and Africa4413,095AsiaChina6725,140Guam1436India235,752Indonesia102,261Japan123,684Malaysia73,070Philippines2657Singapore31,059South Korea51,751Thailand183,815Vietnam2786Total Asia15048,411Australia51,527Continental EuropeAzerbaijan1243Armenia2326Austria81,922Belgium5881Czech Republic61,088Denmark1402France214,266Georgia2245Germany286,481Greece1314Hungary4891Israel3539Italy233,677Kazakhstan5634Netherlands3946Poland2759Portugal51,150Romania1401Russia133,013Spain759,590Sweden2406Switzerland61,181Turkey102,560Total Continental Europe22741,915Total3,916675,623















Descriptions of Our Brands



North American Full-Service Segment, North American Limited-Service Segment,

International Segment Products



Marriott Hotelsis our global flagship premium brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels properties seek to be "brilliant hosts" to global, mobile guests who blend work and play, demand seamless connectivity and seek style with substance. Properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at resort locations.



Typically, properties contain 300 to 700 well-appointed guest rooms, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurants and lounges, room service, concierge lounges, fitness centers, swimming pools, wireless Internet access in public spaces, and parking facilities.Sixteenproperties have over 1,000 rooms. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and spa facilities. New and renovated properties typically showcase the Marriott Greatroom lobby experience, which features dynamic public spaces that flex to meet a wide variety of the social, mobile, and collaborative behaviors of today's traveler. Properties feature luxurious guest rooms, contemporary residential designs with rich woods and architectural detail, flat-screen high-definition televisions, in-room high-speed Internet access, and bathrooms embodying spa-like luxury. The Marriott Hotels brand is also leading the industry with the deployment of Mobile Guest Services that allows customers to check in and check out of a hotel on their mobile device. At year-end2013, there were486Marriott Hotels properties (174,509rooms), excluding JW Marriott and Marriott Conference Centers.



At year-end2013, there were10Marriott Conference Centers(2,915rooms) throughout the United States. Some of the centers are used exclusively by employees of sponsoring organizations, while others are marketed to outside meeting groups and individuals. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott Hotels property, conference centers include expanded meeting room space, banquet and dining facilities, and recreational facilities.



JW Marriottis a global luxury brand made up of a collection of beautiful properties and resorts that cater to accomplished, discerning travelers seeking an elegant environment with discreet personal service. JW Marriott's elegant yet approachable positioning provides a differentiated offering in the luxury hotel market, bridging the gap between full service hotel brands and the super luxury brands at the top of the tier. At year-end2013, there were63properties (27,477rooms) primarily located in gateway cities and upscale locations throughout the world. JW Marriott offers anticipatory service and exceptional amenities, many with world-class golf and spa facilities. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott Hotels property, the facilities and amenities at JW Marriott properties normally include larger guest rooms, higher-end décor and furnishings, upgraded in-room amenities, upgraded executive lounges, business centers and fitness centers, and 24-hour room service.



Marriott Hotels, Marriott Conference Centers, and JW MarriottGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (43 states and the District of Columbia)344(138,860 rooms)Non-U.S. (58 countries and territories)Americas50Continental Europe41United Kingdom and Ireland51Asia50Middle East and Africa19Australia4Total Non-U.S.215(66,041 rooms)



Renaissance Hotelsis a global, full-service brand that targets lifestyle-oriented business travelers who are "discoverers at heart" and who value business travel as a way to explore the world. Each Renaissance hotel offers its own personality, local flavor, and distinctive style and provides guests the opportunity to discover something new at every turn. Two innovations include the Navigator program, which helps guests discover authentic establishments in the locale, and RLife®LIVE, which helps guests discover emerging talent in music, films, arts, and more in the comfort of the hotel lobby bars and lounges. For









group customers, Renaissance offers R.E.N. Meetings, which includesRenaissance sensory meeting space and table settings,Entertainment with RLife LIVE, andNavigator local experts, all built on our company's trusted meetings expertise and heritage.



Renaissance Hotels' diverse portfolio includes historic icons, modern boutiques, exotic resorts, and convention hotels. Most properties contain 250 to 500 rooms, featuring modern chic design, lively bars and lounges, and creative meeting and banquet facilities. At year-end2013, there were153Renaissance Hotels properties (51,900rooms), including two Renaissance ClubSport properties (349rooms).



Renaissance HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (28 states and the District of Columbia)76(27,189 rooms)Non-U.S. (33 countries and territories)Americas9Continental Europe31United Kingdom and Ireland4Asia29Middle East and Africa4Total Non-U.S.77(24,711 rooms)



Autograph Collection Hotels.The Autograph Collection is a growing portfolio of luxury independent hotels located in  desired destinations around the world. Each hotel in the Collection is selected for its distinction as an iconic landmark, its cultural significance, remarkable design or for its best-in-class resort amenities. Autograph Collection provides our company the opportunity to attract new guests who prefer original and varying hotel experiences that other brands do not offer. The Collection provides owners of high-quality hotels with a compelling consumer offering through our leading reservations and marketing platforms and Marriott Rewards®, our award winning loyalty program. Every hotel in the Collection has its own character and unique sense of place. At year-end2013, there were56Autograph Collection properties (11,463rooms) operating in 15 countries and territories.



Autograph Collection HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (15 states)32(8,410 rooms)Non-U.S. (14 countries and territories)Americas3Continental Europe15United Kingdom and Ireland4Asia2Total Non-U.S.24(3,053 rooms)

Gaylord Hotels.With its world-class group and convention-oriented hotels, Gaylord Hotels is a leader in the group and meetings business and complements our existing network of large convention hotels. Gaylord Hotels properties are located in Prince George's County, Maryland near Washington, D.C. (Gaylord National®), in Nashville, Tennessee (Gaylord Opryland®and The Inn at Opryland), in Kissimmee, Florida near Orlando (Gaylord Palms®) and in Lake Grapevine, Texas, near Dallas (Gaylord Texan®). Gaylord Hotels properties are designed to celebrate the heritage of their destinations. Properties typically have between approximately 1,400 rooms and 2,900 rooms, extensive meeting and convention space ranging from 400,000 to 600,000 square feet, from 4 to 15 restaurants, eateries and bars, and retail outlets serving groups and leisure travelers. Fueled by the brand’s hallmark "Everything in one place" concept, each Gaylord Hotels resort blends magnificent settings, luxurious rooms, and world-class dining and entertainment offerings. Gaylord Hotels properties invite their guests to experience live music, dining, dancing, sporting activities, shopping, golf, movies, and more, all in one place. We also manage Gaylord Springs Golf Links, Wildhorse Saloon, and General Jackson Showboat located at or near the Gaylord Opryland in Nashville. At year-end2013, there werefiveGaylord Hotels properties (8,098rooms, including the 303 room Inn at Opryland) operating in the United States.











AC Hotels by Marriott.We are a partner with AC Hoteles, S.A. of Spain in joint ventures that created the “AC Hotels by Marriott” co-brand. AC Hotels by Marriott is designed to attract the upper-moderate design-conscious guest looking for a cosmopolitan hotel in a great city location. The brand features stylish, sleek designs with limited food and beverage offerings. Room counts vary by continent and can range from 50 to175 rooms. AC by Marriott hotels are typically located in destination, downtown, and lifestyle centers. Each hotel has its own unique style and character, but all feature the signature “AC Bed” with four large pillows and built-in reading light. AC Hotels by Marriott also features the “AC Lounge” offering cocktails, appetizers and sharable plates where guests can relax and unwind, and "AC Fitness" centers with state-of-the-art exercise equipment. Small meeting rooms can be found in most hotels for private board meetings or intimate social gatherings. Based on location, other hotel amenities include a mini-bar, 24-hour room service, laundry service, exclusive bathroom amenities, writing desk, and Wi-Fi. At year-end2013, there were75AC Hotels by Marriott properties (8,491rooms) in Spain, Italy, France, and Portugal. In 2013, we announced that we plan to import the AC Hotels brand into the U.S. and the rest of the Americas.



Moxy Hotels.In 2013, we announced a collaboration with Inter IKEA to develop our newest brand, Moxy Hotels, a design-led, lifestyle budget hotel developed around the needs of Generation X and Y travelers. Moxy offers a new way of traveling in which smaller is concentration, not reduction, and in which affordability is not a sacrifice of style, nor a loss of comfort. The brand offers a vibrant, communal and stylish public space and a fun, energetic and edgy personality. The brand will debut in Italy, with the first Moxy expected to open in Milan in mid-2014.



Courtyard

is our hotel product designed for the upper-moderate price tier. Focused primarily on transient business travel, Courtyard hotels are designed to offer a refreshing environment to help guests stay connected, productive, and balanced, while accommodating their need for choice and control when traveling. The hotels typically contain 90 to 150 rooms in suburban locales and 140 to 340 rooms in downtown domestic and international locales. Well-landscaped grounds typically include  outdoor social areas. Hotels feature functionally designed guest rooms and meeting rooms, free in-room high-speed Internet access, free wireless high-speed Internet access (Wi-Fi) in the lobby (in North America), a swimming pool, an exercise room, and

The Market

(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day). At year-end


, over 80 percent of our North American Courtyard hotels completed the Courtyard Refreshing Business lobby design, a state-of-the-art lobby design we began implementing in 2008. The Bistro is the centerpiece of the lobby and is a "paid for" food and beverage concept that offers guests fresh and healthy meals for both breakfast and dinner along with Starbucks

®

Coffee, specialty espresso drinks, and a full evening bar service. The multifunctional lobby space enables guests to work, relax, eat, drink, and socialize at their own pace, taking advantage of enhanced technology and The Bistro’s offerings.



At year-end


, there were


Courtyard properties (

140,549

rooms) operating in 38 countries and territories.



CourtyardGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)836(117,693 rooms)Non-U.S. (37 countries and territories)Americas43Continental Europe42United Kingdom and Ireland2Asia24Middle East and Africa5Australia1Total Non-U.S.117(22,856 rooms)



Fairfield Inn & Suites(which includes Fairfield Inn, Fairfield Inn & Suites and Fairfield by MarriottSM) is an established leader in the moderate-price tier segment and is targeted primarily at value-conscious business travelers. Fairfield Inn & Suites’ new prototype provides owners and investors with options and flexibility to meet specific market needs. Whether the hotel is located in an urban, secondary, or tertiary market, this innovative design allows owners to adapt the model based on location and site requirements. A typical Fairfield Inn & Suites or Fairfield Inn property has 60 to 140 rooms in suburban locations and up to 200 rooms in urban destinations. Fairfield Inn & Suites offers a wide range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), a business center/lobby computer with Internet access and print capability, free hot breakfast,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day, at most locations), exercise facilities (at most locations), and a swimming pool. Additionally, suite rooms (approximately 25 percent of the rooms at a typical Fairfield Inn & Suites) provide guests with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing as well as in-room amenities including a microwave and refrigerator. At year-end2013, there were 511









Fairfield Inn & Suites properties and 197 Fairfield Inn properties (64,965rooms combined total) operating in the United States, Canada, Mexico and India.



Fairfield Inn & Suites and Fairfield InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (48 states and the District of Columbia)691(62,921 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (3 countries and territories)Americas16Asia1Total Non-U.S.17(2,044 rooms)



Residence Innis North America’s leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for frequent and extended stay business and leisure travelers staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, and working areas, as well as kitchens with full-size appliances. Building on the brand’s innovative spirit, Residence Inn is evolving to better support our guests with our new guest room designs, featuring a new desk design that offers room to spread out and work in comfort, a signature sofa that offers a place to work and relax, and an updated bath area with thoughtful storage. Additionally, we have created a fresh, stylish, residential design for the lobby space to encourage guests to enjoy time with friends and family outside their suites. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines through free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site exercise options, and comfortable places to work and relax. Additional amenities include free hot breakfast and evening social events, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and laundry facilities. At year-end2013, there were653Residence Inn properties (79,405rooms) operating in 6 countries and territories.



Residence InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013PropertiesUnited States (48 states and the District of Columbia)629(76,056 rooms)Non-U.S. (5 countries and territories)Americas21Continental Europe1United Kingdom and Ireland1Middle East and Africa1Total Non-U.S.24(3,349 rooms)



SpringHill Suitesis our all-suite brand in the upper-moderate-price tier primarily targeting business and leisure travelers who are looking for extra space and style with a great value. Fusing form and function with modern décor and creature comforts like great bedding, good food, and fitness options, SpringHill Suites delivers a stimulating and enriching experience for its target guests, who are "independent social explorers" looking for extra space and style with a great value. SpringHill Suites properties typically have 90 to 165 suites that have approximately 25 percent more space than a traditional hotel guest room with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing. The brand offers a broad range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day), complimentary hot breakfast buffet, lobby computer and on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), exercise facilities, and a swimming pool. At year-end2013, there were306properties (35,888rooms) operating in the United States (45 states) andtwoproperties (299rooms) in Canada.



TownePlace Suitesis a moderately priced extended-stay hotel brand designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Created for the value smart traveler who has a preference for a comfortable, uncomplicated and convenient hotel experience, each suite provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home office. TownePlace Suites associates provide insightful local knowledge, and each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests settle in, maintain their day-to-day routine, and connect to the local area. Additional amenities include daily housekeeping services, breakfast, exercise facilities, a pool, 24-hour staffing, laundry facilities, free high-speed Internet and Wi-Fi access in the lobby and guest suites. At year-end2013, there were222properties (22,039rooms) operating in the United States (44 states) andtwoproperties (278rooms) operating in Canada.



Marriott Executive Apartmentsprovides luxury serviced apartments with five-star amenities and services for business executives and those on leisure who require accommodations outside their home country, usually for 30 or more days. These full-service apartments are designed with upscale finishes and a wide variety of amenities including food and beverage options,









a 24-hour front desk, daily and weekly housekeeping services, laundry facilities within the apartment, and recreational facilities. With all the space of a luxury apartment and the services of our skilled staff, Marriott Executive Apartments offer a truly unique solution for long-term guests seeking an opportunity to live, connect, and explore their new city. At year-end2013, 25 Marriott Executive Apartments and two other Serviced Apartments properties (4,295rooms total) were located in 16 countries and territories. All Marriott Executive Apartments are located outside the United States.



Luxury Segment Products



The Ritz-Carltonis one of the world's leading global luxury lifestyle brands, with hotels and resorts renowned for their extraordinary locations, inspired design, and legendary service. The brand, designed to appeal to the guest who enjoys genuine care and comfort, seeks to provide unique, memorable, and personal experiences that transcend luxury hospitality and create indelible marks in guests' lives. The Ritz-Carlton properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, restaurants led by celebrity chefs, championship golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, twice-daily housekeeping, fitness and business centers, meeting and banquet facilities, concierge services, and The Ritz-Carlton Club®Level. The Ritz-Carlton is a highly reputable, award-winning organization and the only service company to have twice earned the prestigious Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. At year-end2013, there were88The Ritz-Carlton hotel properties (25,569rooms) and40home and condominium projects (4,228units) for which we manage the related owners' associations operating in 29 countries and territories.



The Ritz-CarltonGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2013(1)PropertiesUnited States (17 states and the District of Columbia)67(14,638 rooms)Non-U.S. (29 countries and territories)Americas15Continental Europe12United Kingdom and Ireland—Asia24Middle East and Africa10Total Non-U.S.61(15,159 rooms)



(1)Includes40home and condominium projects (4,228units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Bulgari Hotels & Resorts.Bulgari Hotels & Resorts is the product of a joint venture between us and Italian jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari SpA. The Bulgari Hotels & Resorts brand offers distinctive luxury hotel properties located in gateway cities and exclusive resorts around the world. These innovative hotels combine Bulgari style with incredible service in an informal yet impeccable setting, providing a flawless experience sought by the most discriminating guests. At year-end 2013, there were three Bulgari properties: the Bulgari Milan Hotel (58 rooms), in Milan, Italy, the Bulgari Bali Resort (59 private villas, two restaurants, and comprehensive spa facilities), and the Bulgari Hotel in London, England (85 rooms) overlooking Hyde Park and Knightsbridge. We also operate two restaurants in Tokyo, Japan, which are co-located with two Bulgari retail stores. The hotels are designed by renowned Italian designer Antonio Citterio and the furnishings and detailing embody the idea of contemporary luxury. We operate all of the Bulgari Hotels & Resorts brand properties and restaurants other than the hotel in London, which is franchised. Other projects are currently in various stages of development in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and North America.



EDITION

.

In collaboration with hotel innovator Ian Schrager, EDITION combines the personal, intimate, individualized, and unique hotel experience that Ian Schrager is known for, with the global reach, operational expertise and scale of Marriott. The brand’s approach and attitude toward modern lifestyle provides a unifying aesthetic, blending groundbreaking innovation, great design, outstanding dining and entertainment with personal, friendly and modern service. The heightened experience, authenticity and originality that Ian Schrager brings to the brand coupled with the global reach of Marriott results in a truly distinct product that sets itself apart from anything else currently in the marketplace. EDITION showcases the finest dining and entertainment offerings for guests and locals in the know. At year-end


, the brand operated The Istanbul EDITION, an award-winning 78-room property in Istanbul, Turkey, and recently opened the 173-room London EDITION to great acclaim. Planned openings are also scheduled in international gateway cities including Miami Beach (2014), New York-Madison Square Park (2015), Gurgaon, India (2015), Sanya, China (2015), Bangkok, Thailand (2016), Abu Dhabi (2016), Shanghai, China (2016), Wuhan, China (2017), West Hollywood (2017), and New York-Times Square (2017), along with other projects under development in key locations around the world.  The EDITION hotels in Miami Beach and New York-Madison Square Park are currently under construction and development with our own funds. Early in the 2014 first quarter, we sold The London









EDITION to a third party and simultaneously entered into definitive agreements to sell The Miami Beach and The New York EDITION hotels to the same third party when construction is complete. We will retain long-term management agreements for each of these three EDITION hotels. See Footnote No. 7, "Acquisitions and Dispositions" for additional information on this transaction.



Licensed Timeshare Brands



On November 21, 2011 ("the spin-off date"), we completed a spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business through a special tax-free dividend to our shareholders of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of our then wholly owned subsidiary MVW. Before the spin-off date, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment under four brand names - Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott. In conjunction with the spin-off, we entered into licensing agreements with MVW for MVW’s use of the Marriott timeshare and Ritz-Carlton fractional brands. See Footnote No. 15, "Spin-off," for more information on the spin-off.



Under the licensing agreements, MVW is the exclusive worldwide developer, marketer, seller, and manager of vacation ownership and related products under the Marriott Vacation Club and Grand Residences by Marriott brands. MVW is also the exclusive global developer, marketer, and seller of vacation ownership and related products under The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club brand. Ritz-Carlton generally provides on-site management for Ritz-Carlton branded properties. We receive license fees under the licensing agreements with MVW.



Many resorts are located adjacent to hotels we operate, such as Marriott Hotels and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.



We license the following brands to MVW:

Marriott Vacation Clubis MVW's signature offering in the upscale tier of the vacation ownership industry. Marriott Vacation Club resorts typically combine many of the comforts of home, such as spacious accommodations with one-, two- and three-bedroom options, living and dining areas, and in-unit kitchens and laundry facilities, with resort amenities such as large feature swimming pools, restaurants and bars, convenience stores, and fitness facilities and spas, as well as sports and recreation facilities appropriate for each resort's unique location.

Grand Residences by Marriottis an upscale tier vacation ownership and whole ownership residence brand. MVW's vacation ownership products under this brand include multi-week ownership interests. The ownership structure and physical products for these locations are similar to those MVW offers to Marriott Vacation Club owners, although the time period for each Grand Residences by Marriott ownership interest ranges between three and 13 weeks. MVW also offers whole ownership residential products under this brand.

The Ritz-Carlton Destination Clubis MVW's vacation ownership offering in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club provides luxurious vacation experiences commensurate with The Ritz-Carlton brand. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts typically feature two-, three- and four-bedroom units that generally include marble foyers, walk-in closets, custom kitchen cabinetry, and luxury resort amenities such as large feature pools and full-service restaurants and bars. We deliver on-site services, which usually include daily housekeeping service, valet, in-residence dining, and access to fitness facilities as well as spa and sports facilities as appropriate for each destination, through our Ritz-Carlton subsidiary.

The Ritz-Carlton Residencesis a whole ownership residence brand in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Residences include luxury residential condominiums and home sites for luxury home construction co-located with certain The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts. Owners can typically purchase condominiums that vary in size from one-bedroom apartments to spacious penthouses. The Ritz-Carlton Residences are situated in settings ranging from city center locations to golf and beach communities with private homes where residents can avail themselves of the services and facilities on an a la carte basis that are associated with the co-located The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resort. We deliver on-site services through our Ritz-Carlton subsidiary. While the worldwide residential market is very large, the luxurious nature of The Ritz-Carlton Residences properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with The Ritz-Carlton brand, and the hospitality services that are provided all make The Ritz-Carlton Residences properties distinctive.



MVW offers Marriott Rewards®Points and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®Points to its owners or potential owners as sales, tour, and financing incentives, in exchange for vacation ownership usage rights, for customer referrals, and to resolve customer service issues. MVW buys these points from our Marriott Rewards and Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs.











At year-end2013, MVW operated62properties, primarily in the United States, but also in other countries and territories.

Other Activities

Credit Card Programs.At year-end2013, we had six credit card programs in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, which include both Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards credit cards. We earn licensing fees based on card usage, and the cards are designed to encourage loyalty to our brands.



Sales and Marketing, Loyalty Programs, and Reservation Systems.We focus on increasing value for the consumer and “selling the way the customer wants to buy.” Our Look No Further®Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott reservation channel. Marriott’s Look No Further Guarantee ensures best rate integrity, strengthening consumer confidence in our brand. Our strong Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards guest recognition programs and our information-rich and easy-to-use Marriott.com website are also key to our success.



With nearly 44 million visitors each month, Marriott.com remains one of the largest online retail sites in the world, and continues to experience unprecedented growth. According to Internet Retailer (September 2013), Marriott is now the largest hotel company in gross mobile bookings including bookings via smartphone and tablets. In 2013, we successfully launched Mobile Check-In at Marriott Hotels in North America and select international properties. Marriott Rewards members can now remotely check in at almost 350 Marriott Hotels using their mobile devices. Ongoing design improvements to Marriott.com will add elegance and simplicity, making it easier for our guests to discover our properties on every device available.



We are a founding venture partner along with five other major hotel chains in Roomkey.com, an industry online referral and lead generation site. Roomkey.com launched in January 2012 and allows consumers to research hotel options across multiple brands. When a Roomkey.com customer selects a hotel with one of our brands, the customer books directly on Marriott.com. We expect Roomkey.com will be a more cost-effective and efficient business model for properties in our system than other online travel sites.



At year-end2013, we operated13systemwide hotel reservation centers,sixin the United States and Canada andsevenin other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and lease the others. Our reservation system manages and controls inventory availability and pricing set by our hotels and allows us to utilize online and offline agents where cost effective. With over 3,900 properties in our system, economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners and franchisees, and enhance our fee revenue.



The global sales and revenue management organization is a key competitive advantage for us due to an unrelenting focus on optimizing our investment in people, processes, and systems. We continue to develop and implement sales and revenue management plans and strategies that are tailored to specific markets around the world to meet the needs of our hotel owners. Our above-property sales deployment strategy aligns our sales efforts around the customer, reducing duplication of sales efforts by individual hotels and allowing us to cover a larger number of accounts. We also utilize innovative sophisticated revenue management systems, many of which are proprietary, that provide a competitive advantage in pricing decisions, increase efficiency in analysis and decision making, and produce increased property-level revenue for the hotels in our system. Most of the hotels in our system utilize web-based programs to effectively manage the rate set up and modification processes which provides for greater pricing flexibility, reduces time spent on rate program creation and maintenance, and increases the speed to market of new products and services. For our company-managed hotels in North America, at year-end2013, approximately one-third of our sales staff worked on-property, approximately one-third worked in outside sales (spending the majority of their time meeting in customer offices), and approximately one-third responded to customer requests in state-of-the-art sales offices.



Our customer loyalty programs, Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards, have over 45 million members and 14 participating brands. MVW and other program partners also participate in our rewards programs. The rewards programs yield repeat guest business by rewarding frequent stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 36 participating airline programs. We believe that our rewards programs generate substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In2013, rewards program members purchased over 50 percent of our room nights. We continue to enhance our rewards program offerings and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. Our loyal rewards member base provides a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts. See the "Our Rewards Programs" caption in Footnote No. 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for more information.



As we further discuss in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” later in this report, we utilize sophisticated technology and systems in our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, in our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-









Carlton Rewards programs, and in other aspects of our business. We also make certain technologies available to our guests. Keeping pace with developments in technology is important for our operations and our competitive position. Furthermore, the integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us as we use such data for business decisions and to maintain operational efficiency.



Environmental Responsibility and "Green" Hotels.Our sustainability strategy supports business growth and reaches beyond our hotels to preserve and protect our planet's natural resources. Marriott's environmental goals are to: (1) further reduce energy and water consumption by 20% by 2020; (2) empower our hotel development partners to build green hotels; (3) green our multi-billion dollar supply chain; (4) educate and inspire associates and guests to conserve and preserve; and (5) address environmental challenges through innovative conservation initiatives including rainforest protection and water conservation.



We recognize our responsibility to reduce consumption of water, waste and energy in our hotels and corporate offices and are focused on integrating greater environmental sustainability throughout our business. We were the first major hotel chain to calculate our carbon footprint and launch a plan to improve energy efficiency, conserve water and support projects that reduce deforestation. We use Energy and Environmental Action (EEAP) plans, our best-practice auditing tool, to help our properties achieve energy and water reduction goals. Working in partnership with the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) and the Green Building Certification Institute (GBCI), Marriott is empowering our hotel development partners to build green hotels. In 2011, we developed the first LEED Volume Program (LVP) to provide a streamlined path to certification for the hospitality industry through a green hotel prototype. The LEED Volume Program that Marriott offers can save our owners 25 percent in energy and water consumption for the life of their buildings and should recover their initial investment in two to six years. Marriott has more than 110 LEED-certified buildings, with more in the development pipeline.



Our Architecture and Construction (“A&C”) division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, A&C provides these services for owners and franchisees of Marriott-branded properties on a fee basis.



Marriott Golf.At year-end2013, Marriott Golf managed35golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners. In addition, we provide similar services to six facilities operated by others.

Competition.We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. There are approximately 872 lodging management companies in the United States, including approximately nine that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or performance criteria are not met.



During the last recession we experienced a significant reduction in demand for hotel rooms, particularly in 2009, and we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we focused these efforts on areas that had limited or no impact on the guest experience. While demand trends globally improved from 2010 through 2013, additional cost reductions could become necessary to preserve operating margins if demand trends reverse. If any such efforts become necessary, we would expect to implement them in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, in order to help maintain or increase our market share.



Affiliation with a national or regional brand is prevalent in the U.S. lodging industry, and we believe that our brand recognition gives us a competitive advantage in attracting and retaining guests, owners and franchisees. In2013, approximately 69 percent of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. The franchising business is concentrated, with the six largest franchisors operating multiple brands accounting for a significant proportion of all U.S. rooms.



Outside the United States, branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers are reduced, international travel accelerates, and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.



Based on lodging industry data, we have approximately a 10 percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate less than a two percent share of the lodging market outside the United States. We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically









generate higher occupancies and Revenue per Available Room (“RevPAR”) than our direct competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our reservation systems, and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction are contributing factors across all of our brands.



Properties that we operate, franchise, or license are regularly upgraded to maintain their competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the properties. Properties converting to one of our brands typically complete renovations as needed in conjunction with the conversion.



Employee Relations

At year-end2013, we had approximately 123,000 employees, approximately 10,100 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive.



Environmental Compliance

The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation of properties and our development of properties comply, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Our compliance with such provisions also has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, and we do not anticipate that such compliance will have a material impact in the future.



Internet Address and Company SEC Filings

Our Internet address is Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website, Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make all such filings available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.













