Item 1.Business.

We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels, corporate housing properties, and timeshare properties under numerous brand names at different price and service points. Consistent with our focus on management, franchising, and licensing, we own very few of our lodging properties. We also operate, market, and develop residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations.

We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were “spun off” as a separate entity by the company formerly named “Marriott International, Inc.”

On November 21, 2011 ("the spin-off date"), we completed a spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business through a special tax-free dividend to our shareholders of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of our wholly owned subsidiary Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation ("MVW"). Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under these licensing agreements.

Prior to the spin-off date, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment. Because of our significant continuing involvement in MVW operations after the spin-off date (by virtue of the license and other agreements between us and MVW), our former Timeshare segment's historical financial results prior to the spin-off date will continue to be included in our historical financial results as a component of continuing operations. Following the spin-off, license fees associated with the timeshare business are included in "other unallocated corporate." See Footnote No. 17, "Spin-off," of the Notes to our Financial Statements included in this annual report for additional information on the spin-off.

At year-end 2011, our operations are grouped into four business segments: North American Full-Service Lodging, North American Limited-Service Lodging, International Lodging, and Luxury Lodging.  The following table shows the percentage of 2011 total revenue from each of our lodging segments, as well as from unallocated corporate and our former Timeshare segment:











SegmentPercentage of 2011Total RevenuesNorth American Full-Service Lodging Segment44%North American Limited-Service Lodging Segment19%International Lodging Segment10%Luxury Lodging Segment14%Former Timeshare Segment(1)12%Other unallocated corporate1%(1)Reflects revenue through the spin-off date



Our North American Full-Service and North American Limited-Service segments include properties located in the United States and Canada, our Luxury segment includes worldwide properties, and our International segment includes full-service and limited-service properties located outside the United States and Canada. Unless otherwise indicated, our references to Marriott Hotels & Resorts throughout this report include Marriott Conference Centers and JW Marriott, references to Renaissance Hotels include Renaissance ClubSport, and references to Fairfield Inn & Suites include Fairfield Inn®.



Financial information by segment and geographic area for 2011, 2010, and 2009 appears in Footnote No. 16, “Business Segments,” of the Notes to our Financial Statements included in this annual report.



Lodging

We operate, franchise or license3,718lodging properties worldwide, with643,196rooms as of year-end 2011 inclusive of32home and condominium products (3,838units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations. In addition, we provided2,166furnished corporate housing rental units, which are not included in the totals. We believe that our portfolio of lodging brands is the broadest of any company in the world. Our brands are listed in the following table:



•Marriott®Hotels & Resorts•AC Hotels by Marriott•      JW Marriott®•     Marriott Vacation Club®•      Renaissance®Hotels•     The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club®•      Autograph Collection®•     The Ritz-Carlton Residences®•      Courtyard by Marriott®(“Courtyard”)•Grand Residences by Marriott®•Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®(“Fairfield Inn &       Suites”)•SpringHill Suites by Marriott®(“SpringHill Suites”)•Residence Inn by Marriott®(“Residence Inn”)•TownePlace Suites by Marriott®(“TownePlace Suites”)•Marriott ExecuStay®•      Marriott Executive Apartments®•      The Ritz-Carlton®•      Bulgari Hotels & Resorts®•      EDITION®



Company-Operated Lodging Properties

At year-end 2011, we operated 1,053 properties (277,526 rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners, 43 properties (10,358 rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together, “the Operating Agreements”), and 6 properties (1,155 rooms) as owned. The figures noted for properties operated under long-term management agreements include32home and condominium products (3,838units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Terms of our management agreements vary, but typically, we earn a management fee, which comprises a base management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more









additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of the Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Additionally, many of our Operating Agreements permit the owners to terminate the agreement if certain performance metrics are not met and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies. In certain circumstances, some of our management agreements allow owners to convert company-operated properties to franchised properties.



For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training, and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, costs of both for which we generally are reimbursed by the owners. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services. We are also generally reimbursed by owners for the cost of providing these services.

Franchised, Licensed and Unconsolidated Joint Venture Lodging Properties

We have franchising, licensing, and joint venture programs that permit the use of many of our lodging brand names and systems by other hotel owners and operators as well as by MVW. Under the franchising program, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from four percent to six percent of room revenues for all brands, plus two percent to three percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. We are a partner in unconsolidated joint ventures that manage and/or franchise hotels, and we recognize our share of the joint ventures' net income or loss. Franchisees and joint ventures contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized reservation systems. Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under licensing agreements with MVW consisting of a fixed annual fee of

$50 million

plus

two

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for initial developer sales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units and

one

percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for resales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units, in each case that are identified with or use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton marks.

At year-end 2011, we had 2,467 franchised properties (332,636 rooms), 85 unconsolidated joint venture properties (8,721 rooms), and 64 timeshare, fractional and related properties (12,800 units).

Residential

We sell residential real estate in conjunction with luxury hotel development (Ritz-Carlton-Residential) and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences developed in conjunction with hotels are typically constructed and sold by hotel owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. While the worldwide residential market is very large, the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive.

Seasonality

In general, business at company-operated and franchised properties is relatively stable and includes only moderate seasonal fluctuations. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location.

Relationship with Major Customer

We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Host”). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No. 23, “Relationship with Major Customer,” of the Notes to our Financial Statements included in this annual report for more information.

Intellectual Property

We operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names, and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service, and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect against its unauthorized use.











Summary of Properties by Brand

At year-end 2011, we operated, franchised, or licensed the following properties by brand (excluding2,166corporate housing rental units):

Company-OperatedFranchised / LicensedOther(3)BrandPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsU.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts13871,75118456,075——Marriott Conference Centers102,915————JW Marriott149,22672,914——Renaissance Hotels3817,4264011,454——Renaissance ClubSport——2349——Autograph Collection——175,207——The Ritz-Carlton3911,587————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)293,509————EDITION——————Courtyard28244,25052369,163——Fairfield Inn & Suites31,05566459,337——SpringHill Suites345,31125128,155——Residence Inn13419,36446352,712——TownePlace Suites293,08617116,962——Timeshare(2)——5010,496——Total U.S. Locations750189,4802,372312,824——Non-U.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts13540,7013510,327——JW Marriott2910,8913795——Renaissance Hotels5417,971205,766——Autograph Collection——55485350The Ritz-Carlton3911,996————The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)3329————The Ritz-Carlton Serviced Apartments4579————EDITION178————Bulgari Hotels & Resorts2117————Marriott Executive Apartments223,601199——AC Hotels by Marriott————808,371Courtyard5912,784498,522——Fairfield Inn & Suites——131,568——SpringHill Suites——2299——Residence Inn4512162,279——TownePlace Suites——1105——Timeshare(2)——142,304——Total Non-U.S. Locations35299,55915932,612858,721Total1,102289,0392,531345,436858,721



(1)Represents projects where we manage the related owners’ association. We include residential products once they possess a certificate of occupancy.

(2)Timeshare properties licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names. Includes products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out.

(3)Properties are operated as part of unconsolidated joint ventures.









Summary of Properties by Country

At year-end 2011, we operated, franchised or licensed properties in the following73countries and territories(excluding2,166corporate housing rental units).

CountryPropertiesRoomsAmericasArgentina1318Aruba41,635Bahamas144Barbados1118Brazil41,115British Virgin Islands158Canada6713,698Cayman Islands3772Chile2485Colombia2503Costa Rica51,039Curaçao2484Dominican Republic2445Ecuador2401El Salvador1133Honduras1153Jamaica1427Mexico194,728Panama3757Peru1300Puerto Rico61,971Saint Kitts and Nevis2541Suriname1140Trinidad and Tobago1119United States3,122502,304U.S. Virgin Islands51,095Venezuela3688Total Americas3,263534,471United Kingdom and IrelandIreland3610United Kingdom (England, Scotland, and Wales)5811,269Total United Kingdom and Ireland6111,879









Middle East and AfricaAlgeria1204Bahrain2457Egypt73,430Jordan3644Kuwait2577Oman2495Pakistan2508Qatar61,509Saudi Arabia41,244United Arab Emirates81,563Total Middle East and Africa3710,631AsiaChina5722,831Guam1436India153,951Indonesia91,955Japan103,151Malaysia73,019Philippines2657Singapore31,059South Korea51,751Thailand204,527Vietnam1336Total Asia13043,673Australia61,768Continental EuropeArmenia1226Austria71,720Belgium5881Czech Republic61,088Denmark1401France163,664Georgia2245Germany306,853Greece1314Hungary4892Israel1342Italy213,301Kazakhstan3465Netherlands3945Poland2754Portugal51,161Romania1401Russia143,492Spain829,812Sweden2406Switzerland61,181Turkey82,230Total Continental Europe22140,774Total3,718643,196















Descriptions of Our Brands



North American Full-Service Segment, North American Limited-Service Segment,

International Segment Lodging Products



Marriott Hotels & Resortsis our global flagship brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at resort locations. Marriott Hotels & Resorts is a performance-inspired brand that caters to the achievement-oriented guest.



Typically, properties contain 300 to 700 well-appointed rooms, the Revive®bedding package, in-room high-speed Internet access, swimming pools, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurant and lounges, room service, concierge lounges, wireless Internet access in public places, and parking facilities.  Seventeen properties have over 1,000 rooms. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and spa facilities. New and renovated properties typically reflect the M.I. greatroomSM, a reinvented lobby featuring functional seating, state-of-the-art technology, and innovative food and beverage concepts in a stylish setting, as well as the new Marriott guest room, which features contemporary residential design, warm colors, rich woods and architectural detail, flat-screen high-definition televisions, “plug ‘n play” technology, and bathrooms reflecting spa-like luxury. At year-end 2011, there were492Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties (178,854rooms), excluding JW Marriott and Marriott Conference Centers.



At year-end 2011, there were10Marriott Conference Centers(2,915rooms) throughout the United States. Some of the centers are used exclusively by employees of sponsoring organizations, while others are marketed to outside meeting groups and individuals. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott full-service property, the centers typically include expanded meeting room space, banquet and dining facilities, and recreational facilities.



JW Marriottis a global luxury brand made up of a collection of beautiful properties and resorts that cater to accomplished, discerning travelers seeking an elegant environment with discreet personal service. At year-end 2011, there were53properties (23,826rooms) primarily located in gateway cities and upscale locations throughout the world. JW Marriott offers anticipatory service and exceptional amenities, many with world-class golf and spa facilities. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott full-service property, the facilities and amenities at JW Marriott properties normally include larger guest rooms, higher end décor and furnishings, upgraded in-room amenities, upgraded executive lounges, business centers and fitness centers, and 24-hour room service.



Marriott Hotels & Resorts, Marriott Conference Centers, and JW MarriottGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (42 states and the District of Columbia)353(142,881 rooms)Non-U.S. (58 countries and territories)Americas46Continental Europe39United Kingdom and Ireland52Asia42Middle East and Africa18Australia5Total Non-U.S.202(62,714 rooms)



Renaissance Hotelsis a global, full-service lifestyle brand that targets business and leisure travelers who are discoverers at heart and who seek to live life to the fullest.



Renaissance Hotels properties are generally located in downtown locations of major cities, in suburban office parks, near major gateway airports, and in destination resorts. Renaissance hotels echo and embrace their locales—from historic icons, to modern boutiques to exotic resorts. Most properties contain from 250 to 500 rooms, featuring modern chic design, active restaurants and lounges,  state-of-the-art technology, and inspiring meeting and banquet facilities. At year-end 2011, there were154Renaissance Hotels properties (52,966rooms), including two Renaissance ClubSport properties (349rooms).













Renaissance HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (28 states and the District of Columbia)80(29,229 rooms)Non-U.S. (33 countries and territories)Americas9Continental Europe32United Kingdom and Ireland4Asia26Middle East and Africa3Total Non-U.S.74(23,737 rooms)



Autograph Collection.The Autograph Collection is our evolving ensemble of upper-upscale and luxury independent hotels located in major cities and desired destinations worldwide. Hotels are selected for their originality, rich character, and uncommon details.  Autograph Collection hotels seek to reflect the adventurous spirit and uncompromising originality of the guests who seek them out. Properties in the Collection fall into a variety of hotel categories and guest experiences that provides the Collection the opportunity to attract new customers as they look for travel experiences our other brands do not offer. The Collection also enables our company to grow by attracting owners of high-quality hotels who benefit from a much stronger consumer offering through our leading reservations and marketing platforms, as well as our world-class rewards program. At year-end 2011, there were27Autograph Collection properties (6,105rooms) operating in six countries and territories.

Autograph Collection HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (11 states)17(5,207 rooms)Non-U.S. (5 countries and territories)Americas1Continental Europe9Total Non-U.S.10(898 rooms)



AC Hotels by Marriott.In 2011, we entered into joint ventures with AC Hotels of Spain to create the “AC Hotels by Marriott” co-brand. AC Hotels by Marriott is designed to attract the upper-moderate guest and features stylish, sleek designs with limited food and beverage offerings. AC Hotels typically contain 50 to 150 rooms and are located in destination, downtown, and suburban markets. Each hotel has its own unique style and character, but all feature the signature “AC Bed” with four large pillows and built-in reading light. Other hotel amenities include a mini-bar, 24-hour room service, laundry service, exclusive bathroom amenities, writing desk, and Wi-Fi. AC Hotels also feature “AC Fitness” centers with state-of-the-art exercise equipment and the “AC Lounge” where guests can relax and unwind. Small meeting rooms can be found in most hotels to enable guests to have private board meetings or intimate social gatherings. At year-end 2011, there were80AC Hotels by Marriott properties (8,371rooms) in Spain, Italy, and Portugal.



Courtyard

is our select-service hotel product for the upper-moderate price tier. Focused primarily on transient business travel, Courtyard hotels are designed to offer a refreshing environment to help guests stay connected, productive, and balanced, while accommodating their need for choice and control when traveling. The hotels typically contain 90 to 150 rooms in suburban locales and 140 to 340 rooms in downtown domestic and international locales. Well-landscaped grounds typically include a courtyard with a pool and outdoor social areas. Hotels feature functionally designed guest rooms and meeting rooms, free in-room high-speed Internet access, free wireless high-speed Internet access (Wi-Fi) in the lobby (in North America), a swimming pool, an exercise room, and

The Market

(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day). While many hotels currently offer a breakfast buffet, the brand is transitioning to a new state-of-the-art lobby design and food and beverage concept. The multifunctional space enables guests to work, relax, eat, drink, and socialize at their own pace, taking advantage of enhanced technology and

The Bistro’s

breakfast and dinner offerings. The new, sophisticated lobby design is intended to keep Courtyard well positioned against its competition by providing better value through superior facilities, technology, and service to generate stronger connections with our guests. At year-end 2011, over half of our North American Courtyard hotels had completed the new lobby design.



At year-end 2011, there were


Courtyards (

134,719

rooms) operating in 37 countries and territories.









CourtyardGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)805(113,413 rooms)Non-U.S. (36 countries and territories)Americas35Continental Europe43United Kingdom and Ireland1Asia25Middle East and Africa3Australia1Total Non-U.S.108(21,306 rooms)



Fairfield Inn & Suites(which includes Fairfield Inn) competes in the moderate-price tier and is targeted primarily at value-conscious business travelers. A typical Fairfield Inn & Suites or Fairfield Inn property has 60 to 140 rooms in suburban locations and up to 200 rooms in urban destinations. Fairfield Inn & Suites offers a wide range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), a business center/lobby computer with Internet access and print capability, complimentary continental breakfast buffet,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day, at most locations), exercise facilities (at most locations), and a swimming pool. Additionally, suite rooms (approximately 25 percent of the rooms at a typical Fairfield Inn & Suites) provide guests with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing as well as in-room amenities including a microwave and refrigerator. At year-end 2011, there were 431 Fairfield Inn & Suites properties and 249 Fairfield Inn properties (61,960rooms total), operating in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.



Fairfield Inn & Suites and Fairfield InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)667(60,392 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (Canada and Mexico)13(1,568 rooms)



SpringHill Suitesis our all-suite brand in the upper-moderate-price tier primarily targeting business travelers who are looking for extra space and style with a great value. SpringHill Suites properties typically have 90 to 165 suites that have approximately 25 percent more space than a traditional hotel guest room with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing. The brand offers a broad range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day), complimentary hot breakfast buffet, lobby computer and on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), exercise facilities, and a swimming pool. At year-end 2011, there were285properties (33,466rooms) located in the United States and2properties (299rooms) in Canada.



Residence Innis North America’s leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for business and leisure travelers staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, and working areas, as well as kitchens with full-size appliances. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines through free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site exercise options, and comfortable places to work or relax. Additional amenities include free hot breakfast and evening social events, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2011, there were617Residence Inn properties (74,867rooms) located in the United States, Canada, Costa Rica, United Kingdom, and Germany.



Residence InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011PropertiesUnited States (47 states and the District of Columbia)597(72,076 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (4 countries and territories)Americas18Continental Europe1United Kingdom and Ireland1Total Non-U.S.20(2,791 rooms)











TownePlace Suitesis a moderately priced extended-stay hotel brand that is designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Designed for the self-sufficient, value-conscious traveler, each suite generally provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home office. TownePlace Suites associates provide insightful local knowledge, and each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests settle in, maintain their day-to-day routine, and connect to the local area. Additional amenities include housekeeping services, breakfast, on-site exercise facilities, a pool, 24-hour staffing, free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2011,200TownePlace Suites properties (20,048rooms) were located in 42 states.



Marriott ExecuStayprovides furnished corporate apartments primarily for long-term stays nationwide. ExecuStay owns no residential real estate and provides units primarily through short-term lease agreements with apartment owners and managers and franchise agreements. At year-end 2011, Marriott leased approximately 2,200 apartments and our 11 franchisees leased approximately 2,500 apartments. Apartments are located in 43 different markets in the United States, of which 34 are franchised.



Marriott Executive Apartmentsprovide temporary housing (“Serviced Apartments”) for business executives and others who need quality accommodations outside their home country, usually for 30 or more days. These full-service apartments are designed with upscale finishes and a wide variety of amenities including a 24-hour front desk, housekeeping services and on-site laundry facilities. With all the space of a high-end apartment and all the services of Marriott's skilled staff, Marriott Executive Apartments offers a truly unique solution for long-term international guests. At year-end 2011, 21 Marriott Executive Apartments and two other Serviced Apartments properties (3,700rooms total) were located in 16 countries and territories. All Marriott Executive Apartments are located outside the United States.



Luxury Segment Lodging Products



The Ritz-Carltonis a leading global luxury lifestyle brand, comprised of hotels and resorts renowned for their extraordinary locations, inspired design, and legendary service. The Ritz-Carlton properties include elegant spa and wellness facilities, restaurants led by celebrity chefs, championship golf courses, and The Ritz-Carlton Club®Level. Established in 1983 and acquired by Marriott International in 1995, the Ritz-Carlton is a highly reputable, award-winning organization and the only service company to have twice earned the prestigious Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.



The Ritz-CarltonGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2011(1)PropertiesUnited States (16 states and the District of Columbia)68(15,096 rooms)Non-U.S. (26 countries and territories)Americas9Continental Europe7United Kingdom and Ireland1Asia20Middle East and Africa9Total Non-U.S.46(12,904 rooms)



(1)Includes32home and condominium projects (3,838units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.



Bulgari Hotels & Resorts.Through a joint venture with Italian jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari SpA, we operate distinctive luxury hotel properties in prime locations under the name Bulgari Hotels & Resorts. At year-end 2011, we operated the Bulgari Milano Hotel (58 rooms), in Milan, Italy, and the Bulgari Bali Resort, which features 59 private villas, two restaurants, and comprehensive spa facilities. We also operate two restaurants in Tokyo, Japan, which are co-located with two Bulgari retail stores. The properties are designed by renowned Italian designer Antonio Citterio and the furnishings and detailing embody the idea of contemporary luxury. Upcoming openings include a hotel in London in 2012 and other projects are currently in various stages of development in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and North America.



EDITION.In 2007, we entered into an agreement with hotel innovator Ian Schrager to create next-generation lifestyle boutique hotels to be designed by Schrager and operated by Marriott. The EDITION brand offers a personal, intimate, individualized, and unique lodging experience on a global scale. At year-end 2011, the brand operates an award-winning 78-room hotel in Istanbul, Turkey and is scheduled to open hotels in London (2012), Miami Beach (2013), New York (2014), and Abu Dhabi (2015), with other projects under development in key locations around the world.













Licensed Timeshare Brands



Prior to the spin-off date, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment under four brand names - Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott. In conjunction with the spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business, we entered into licensing agreements with MVW for MVW’s use of the Marriott timeshare and Ritz-Carlton fractional brands.



Under the licensing agreements, MVW is the exclusive worldwide developer, marketer, seller and manager of vacation ownership and related products under the Marriott Vacation Club and Grand Residences by Marriott brands. They are also the exclusive global developer, marketer and seller of vacation ownership and related products under The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club brand. Ritz-Carlton generally provides on-site management for Ritz-Carlton branded properties. We receive license fees under the licensing agreements with MVW.



Many resorts are located adjacent to company-operated hotels, such as Marriott Hotels & Resorts and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.



Brands licensed by us to MVW are as follows:

TheMarriott Vacation Clubbrand is MVW's signature offering in the upscale tier of the vacation ownership industry. Marriott Vacation Club resorts typically combine many of the comforts of home, such as spacious accommodations with one-, two- and three- bedroom options, living and dining areas, in-unit kitchens and laundry facilities, with resort amenities such as large feature swimming pools, restaurants and bars, convenience stores, fitness facilities and spas, as well as sports and recreation facilities appropriate for each resort's unique location.

Grand Residences by Marriottis an upscale tier vacation ownership and whole ownership residence brand. MVW's vacation ownership products under this brand include multi-week ownership interests.  The ownership structure and physical products for these locations are similar to those MVW offers to Marriott Vacation Club owners, although the time period for each Grand Residences by Marriott ownership interest ranges between three and 13 weeks. MVW also offers whole ownership residential products under this brand.

TheRitz-Carlton Destination Clubbrand is MVW's vacation ownership offering in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club provides luxurious vacation experiences commensurate with The Ritz-Carlton brand. Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts typically feature two-, three- and four- bedroom units that generally include marble foyers, walk-in closets and custom kitchen cabinetry, and luxury resort amenities such as large feature pools and full-service restaurants and bars. We deliver on-site services, which usually include daily maid service, valet, in-residence dining, and access to fitness facilities as well as spa and sports facilities as appropriate for each destination, through our Ritz-Carlton subsidiary.

TheRitz-Carlton Residencesbrand is a whole ownership residence brand in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Residences include whole ownership luxury residential condominiums and home sites for luxury home construction co-located with certain Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts. Owners can typically purchase condominiums that vary in size from one-bedroom apartments to spacious penthouses. Ritz-Carlton Residences are situated in settings ranging from city center locations to golf and beach communities with private homes where residents can avail themselves of the services and facilities on an a la carte basis that are associated with the co-located Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resort. On-site services are delivered by Ritz-Carlton. While the worldwide residential market is very large, the luxurious nature of the Ritz-Carlton Residences properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with the Ritz-Carlton brand, and the hospitality services that are provided all make Ritz-Carlton Residences properties distinctive.



MVW offers Marriott Rewards®Points and Ritz-Carlton Rewards®Points to its owners or potential owners as sales, tour, and financing incentives, in exchange for vacation ownership usage rights, for customer referrals, and to resolve customer service issues. These points are purchased from the Marriott Rewards and Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs.

At year-end 2011, MVW operated64properties, primarily in the United States, but also in other countries and territories.











Other Activities

At year-end 2011, Marriott Golf managed 44 golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners.



At year-end 2011, we operated 15 system-wide hotel reservation centers, eight in the United States and Canada and seven in other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and lease the others.



At year-end 2011, we had six credit card programs in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, which include both Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards credit cards. We earn licensing fees based on card usage, and the cards are designed to encourage loyalty to our brands.



We focus on increasing value for the consumer and “selling the way the customer wants to buy.” Our Look No Further®Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott reservation channel. Also key to our success is our strong Marriott Rewards program, our Ritz-Carlton Rewards program, and our information-rich and easy-to-use Marriott.com website.



With 75 percent of our guests saying they use our website when planning or booking their stays and with nearly $7 billion in annual property-level gross revenues, Marriott.com is one of the largest online retail sites in the world based on sales. In 2011, we introduced a number of new digital innovations, including a new mobile booking experience. We made improvements to the Marriott.com booking, search, and online Marriott Rewards experience that are designed to generate more revenue, further reduce booking costs, and make it even easier for our customers to do business with us.  We are also a founding venture partner along with five other major hotel chains in the establishment of Roomkey.com, a new industry online referral and lead generation site.  Roomkey.com will allow consumers to research hotel options across multiple brands and when a Roomkey.com customer selects a Marriott branded hotel, the customer books directly on Marriott.com. As a result, we expect Roomkey.com will drive new business to Marriott.com with a more cost-effective and efficient business model for properties in our system than other online travel sites.



Our sales deployment strategy aligns our sales efforts around customer needs, reducing duplication of sales efforts, and enabling coverage for a larger number of accounts.  We consider our new organization



to be



a key competitive advantage for Marriott.  The deployment rollout, which began in late 2007, was completed in June 2011. Our reservation system manages and controls inventory availability and pricing set by our hotels and allows us to utilize online and offline agents where cost effective. With over 3,700 properties in our system, economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners and franchisees, and enhance our fee revenue. In 2011, we also implemented innovative technology solutions, including our Retail Pricing Optimizer tool ("RPO") and our High Performance Pricing tool ("HPP"). RPO determines optimal transient retail (benchmark) rates for hotels using an analytically-driven and market-based methodology. We believe this technology provides a competitive advantage in pricing decisions, increases efficiency in analysis and decision making, and produces increased property level revenue for transient retail and associated segments. HPP enables hotels to more effectively manage the rate set up and modification processes using web-based functionality. The streamlined process provides for greater pricing flexibility, reduces time spent on rate program creation and maintenance, and increases the speed to market of new products and services.



As further discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” later in this report, in conducting our business, we utilize sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems, and our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs. We also make certain technologies available to our guests. Keeping pace with developments in technology is important for our operations and our competitive position.  Furthermore, the integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us as we use such data for business decisions and to maintain operational efficiency.



Building on more than 20 years of energy conservation experience, we are committed to protecting the environment. Our “Spirit to Preserve®” environmental strategy calls for: greening our multi-billion dollar supply chain; further reducing fuel and water consumption; expanding our portfolio of green hotels and buildings; educating and inspiring employees and guests to support the environment; and investing in innovative, large-scale conservation projects worldwide.



We were the first in the hospitality industry to launch a series of green hotel prototypes that have been pre-approved by U.S. Green Building Council (“USGBC”) as part of its Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (“LEED”) Volume program, meaning that any hotel that follows these plans will earn basic LEED certification, or possibly higher, upon final









USGBC approval while also reducing energy and water consumption up to 25 percent. We are also developing a portfolio of newly designed "green" Fairfield Inn properties in Brazil. The U.S. Travel Association confirms that travelers place the importance of supporting environmentally responsible travel service suppliers as a necessity, even in an economic downturn.



Our Architecture and Construction (“A&C”) division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, A&C provides these services for owners and franchisees of Marriott-branded properties on a fee basis.



Competition

We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. We believe that by operating a number of hotels among our brands that address different price and service points, we stay in direct touch with customers and react to changes in the marketplace more quickly than chains that rely exclusively on franchising. There are approximately 900 lodging management companies in the United States, including approximately 20 that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or performance criteria are not met.



During the recent recession we experienced significant reductions in demand for hotel rooms and timeshare products, particularly in 2009, and we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we focused these efforts on areas that had limited or no impact on the guest experience. While demand trends globally improved in 2010 and 2011, additional cost reductions could become necessary to preserve operating margins if demand trends reverse, but we would expect to implement any such efforts in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, to help maintain or increase our market share.



Affiliation with a national or regional brand is prevalent in the U.S. lodging industry, and we believe that brand recognition is a method of competition in the industry. In 2011, approximately 69 percent of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. The franchising business is concentrated, with the six largest franchisors operating multiple brands accounting for a significant proportion of all U.S. rooms.



Outside the United States, branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers are reduced, international travel accelerates and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.



Based on lodging industry data, we have approximately a ten percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate less than a one percent share of the lodging market outside the United States. We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically generate higher occupancies and Revenue per Available Room (“RevPAR”) than our direct competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our reservation systems and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction are contributing factors across all of our brands.



Properties that we operate, franchise or license are regularly upgraded to maintain their competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the hotels and timeshare properties. Competitor hotels converting to one of Marriott’s brands typically complete renovations as needed in conjunction with the conversion.



Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards are our frequent guest programs with over 38 million members and 13 participating brands. In addition, MVW and other program partners are able to participate in the Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs. The rewards programs yield repeat guest business by rewarding frequent stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 35 participating airline programs. We believe that our rewards programs generate substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In 2011, approximately 50 percent of our room nights were purchased by rewards program members. We continue to enhance our rewards program offerings and specifically and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. Our loyal rewards member base









provides a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts. See the "Our Rewards Programs" caption in Footnote No. 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for additional information.



Employee Relations

At year-end 2011, we had approximately 120,000 employees, approximately 7,800 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive.



Environmental Compliance

The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation of properties and our development of properties comply, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Our compliance with such provisions also has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, nor do we anticipate that such compliance will have a material impact in the future.



Internet Address and Company SEC Filings

Our Internet address is Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website, Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. All such filings are available free of charge and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.













