Item 1.Business.

We are a
worldwide operator and franchisor of hotels and related lodging facilities. We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were “spun off” as a separate entity by the company formerly
named “Marriott International, Inc.” Our operations are grouped into the following five business segments:



SegmentPercentage of 2009Total
RevenuesNorth American Full-Service Lodging Segment44%North American Limited-Service Lodging Segment18%International Lodging Segment11%Luxury Lodging Segment13%Timeshare Segment13%Other unallocated corporate1%

Prior to
November 3, 2007, our operations also included our synthetic fuel business, which we now classify as discontinued operations.

We develop, operate, and franchise hotels and corporate housing properties under numerous separate brand names, and we develop, operate, and market timeshare, fractional ownership, and residential properties under four separate brand names.
We also provide services to home/condominium owner associations for projects associated with several of our brands.

Financial
information by segment and geographic area for the 2009, 2008, and 2007 fiscal years appears in Footnote No. 19, “Business Segments,” of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report.







Lodging

We operate or franchise 3,420 lodging properties worldwide, with 595,461 rooms as of year-end 2009 inclusive of 30 home and condominium products (3,034 units) for which we manage the related owners’
associations. In addition, we provided 2,072 furnished corporate housing rental units, which are not included in the totals. We believe that our portfolio of lodging brands is the broadest of any company in the world and that we are the leader in
the quality tier of the vacation timesharing business. Consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. We manage and franchise lodging properties employing the following brands:



North American Full-Service Lodging SegmentInternational Lodging Segment•   Marriott®Hotels & Resorts•   Marriott®Hotels & Resorts•JW Marriott®•JW Marriott®•Renaissance®Hotels•   Renaissance®Hotels•Renaissance ClubSport®•   Courtyard by Marriott®•Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®North American Limited-Service Lodging Segment•Residence Inn by Marriott®•   Courtyard by Marriott®(“Courtyard”)•Marriott Executive Apartments®•Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriott®(“Fairfield Inn & Suites”)•SpringHill Suites by Marriott®(“SpringHill Suites”)Timeshare Segment•Residence Inn by Marriott®(“Residence Inn”)•Marriott Vacation Club®•   TownePlace Suites by Marriott®(“TownePlace Suites”)•   Marriott ExecuStay®•   The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club®•The Ritz-Carlton Residences®•   Grand Residences by Marriott®Luxury Lodging Segment•The Ritz-Carlton®•   Bulgari Hotels & Resorts®•EDITIONSM *



*At year-end 2009, no EDITION properties were yet open.

Additionally, as discussed in greater detail under the “New Lodging Products” caption, in November 2009 we announced the launch of the Autograph CollectionSM, a new brand within the company’s global portfolio that will be
comprised of upper-upscale and luxury, independent hotels with distinctive personalities, located in major cities and desired destinations worldwide. At year-end 2009, no Autograph Collection properties were yet open.

The North American Full-Service segment and the North American Limited-Service segment include properties located in the
continental United States and Canada. The Luxury segment includes worldwide properties. The International segment includes full-service and limited-service properties located outside the continental United States and Canada. Unless otherwise
indicated, our references to Marriott Hotels & Resorts throughout this report include Marriott Conference Centers and JW Marriott, references to Renaissance Hotels include Renaissance ClubSport, and references to Fairfield Inn &
Suites include Fairfield Inn®.

Company-Operated Lodging Properties

At year-end 2009, we operated 1,098
properties (280,130 rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners, 35 properties (9,277 rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together, “the Operating
Agreements”), and eight properties (1,785 rooms) as owned. The figures noted for properties operated under long-term management agreements include 30 home and condominium products (3,034 units) for which we manage the related owners’
associations.

Terms of our management agreements vary, but typically, we earn a management fee, which comprises a base
management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and
indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on
a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of the Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Additionally, many of our Operating Agreements permit the owners to
terminate the agreement if certain performance metrics are not met and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies.







For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training,
and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, both for which we generally are reimbursed by the owners. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing and
promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services. We are generally reimbursed by owners for the cost of providing these services.

Franchised Lodging Properties

We have franchising programs that permit the
use of many of our lodging brand names and systems by other hotel owners and operators. Under these programs, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from 4 percent to 6 percent of room
revenues for all brands, plus 2 percent to 3 percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. In addition, franchisees contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized
reservation systems. At year-end 2009, we had 2,279 franchised properties (304,269 rooms).

Timeshare and Residential

We develop, operate, market, and sell timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties under four
brand names and generate revenues from three primary sources: (1) selling fee simple and other forms of timeshare intervals and personal residences; (2) financing consumer purchases; and (3) operating the resorts. Many resorts are
located adjacent to company-operated hotels, such as Marriott Hotels & Resorts and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation. Owners can trade their annual interval for intervals at other
Marriott timesharing resorts or for intervals at certain timesharing resorts not otherwise sponsored by Marriott through a third-party exchange company. Owners can also trade their unused interval for points in the Marriott Rewards®frequent guest program, enabling them to stay at over 3,352 company-operated or franchised properties worldwide.

We also sell residential real estate in conjunction with luxury hotel development (Ritz-Carlton-Residential) and Timeshare
segment projects (Ritz-Carlton Residences and Grand Residences by Marriott-Residential) and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences developed in conjunction with hotels are typically constructed
and sold by hotel owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. We typically open our Timeshare segment residential projects over time with limited inventory available at any one time. While the worldwide residential market is very
large, the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive.

Seasonality

In general,
business at company-operated and franchised properties is relatively stable and includes only moderate seasonal fluctuations. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location.

Relationship with Major Customer

We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Host”). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated
by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No. 25, “Relationship with Major Customer,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report for more information.

Intellectual Property

We
operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual
property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect
against its unauthorized use.







Summary of Properties by Brand

At year-end 2009, we operated or franchised the following properties by brand (excluding 2,072 corporate housing rental units):



Company-OperatedFranchisedBrandPropertiesRoomsPropertiesRoomsU.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts14273,02418455,770Marriott Conference Centers113,243——JW Marriott116,57051,553Renaissance Hotels3716,9634011,606Renaissance ClubSport——2349The Ritz-Carlton4012,115——The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)252,613——Courtyard28043,89548863,745Fairfield Inn & Suites31,05561754,567SpringHill Suites314,91622424,930Residence Inn13919,59845251,397TownePlace Suites343,65915014,792Marriott Vacation Club(2)419,728——The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club(2)7339——The Ritz-Carlton Residences(1), (2)3222——Grand Residences by Marriott-Fractional(2)1199——Grand Residences by Marriott-Residential(1), (2)291——Non-U.S. LocationsMarriott Hotels & Resorts13138,1073410,148JW Marriott2610,0301310Renaissance Hotels5017,351144,313The Ritz-Carlton3410,171——The Ritz-Carlton-Residential(1)193——The Ritz-Carlton Serviced Apartments3474——Bulgari Hotels & Resorts2117——Marriott Executive Apartments223,781199Courtyard4710,121437,445Fairfield Inn & Suites——91,109SpringHill Suites——1124Residence Inn3405142,012Marriott Vacation Club(2)112,126——The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club(2)2122——The Ritz-Carlton Residences(1), (2)115——Grand Residences by Marriott-Fractional(2)149——Total1,141291,1922,279304,269



(1)Represents projects where we manage the related owners’ association. Residential products are included once they possess a certificate of
occupancy.

(2)Indicates a Timeshare product. Includes products in active sales as well as those that are sold out.







The following table provides additional detail, by brand, as of year-end 2009, for our
Timeshare properties:



TotalProperties(1)Properties inActive Sales(2)100 Percent Company-DevelopedMarriott Vacation Club5229The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club and Residences98Grand Residences by Marriott and Residences44Joint VenturesThe Ritz-Carlton Destination Club and Residences44Total6945



(1)Includes products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out. Residential products are included once they possess a certificate of
occupancy.

(2)Products in active sales may not be ready for occupancy.

Summary of Properties by Country

At year-end 2009, we operated or
franchised properties in the following 68 countries and territories:



CountryProperties(1)Rooms(1)AmericasArgentina1318Aruba41,635Bahamas232Brazil41,115Canada5712,026Cayman Islands3753Chile2485Colombia1239Costa Rica51,094Curaçao2484Dominican Republic2445Ecuador2401El Salvador1133Honduras1153Jamaica1427Mexico184,541Panama2543Peru1300Puerto Rico61,731Saint Kitts and Nevis2539Suriname1140Trinidad and Tobago1119United States2,969476,939U.S. Virgin Islands4919Venezuela2476Total Americas3,094505,987United Kingdom and IrelandIreland5859United Kingdom (England, Scotland, and Wales)5611,156Total United Kingdom and Ireland6112,015



(1)Includes Timeshare products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out. Products in active sales may not be ready for occupancy.







CountryProperties(1)Rooms(1)Middle East and AfricaArmenia1226Bahrain2452Egypt73,412Israel1342Jordan3644Kuwait2577Qatar3910Saudi Arabia3749Turkey61,739United Arab Emirates71,382Total Middle East and Africa3510,433AsiaChina4718,859Guam1357India92,335Indonesia81,723Japan103,151Malaysia73,019Pakistan2506Philippines2643Singapore21,001South Korea51,758Thailand194,437Vietnam2874Total Asia11438,663Australia82,353Continental EuropeAustria81,979Belgium5878Czech Republic5936Denmark1401France133,012Georgia2245Germany296,902Greece1314Hungary2472Italy81,813Kazakhstan3465Netherlands3942Poland2758Portugal41,179Romania1402Russia92,321Spain92,371Switzerland3620Total Europe10826,010Total-All Countries and Territories3,420595,461



(1)Includes Timeshare products that are in active sales as well as those that are sold out. Products in active sales may not be ready for occupancy.







Descriptions of Our Brands

North American Full-Service Segment, North American Limited-Service Segment,

and International Segment Lodging Products

Marriott Hotels &
Resortsis our global flagship brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at
resort locations. Marriott Hotels & Resorts is a performance-inspired brand that caters to the achievement guest.

Typically, properties contain 300 to 700 well-appointed rooms, the Revive®bedding package, in-room high-speed Internet access, swimming pools, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurant and lounges, room service, concierge lounges, wireless Internet access in public places, and parking
facilities. Eighteen properties have over 1,000 rooms. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and many have spa facilities. New and renovated
properties typically reflect the M.I.greatroomSM, a
reinvented lobby featuring functional seating, state-of-the-art technology, and innovative food and beverage concepts in a stylish setting, as well as the new Marriott guest room, which features contemporary residential design, warm colors, rich
woods and architectural detail, flat-screen high-definition televisions, “plug and play” technology, and bathrooms reflecting spa-like luxury. At year-end 2009, there were 545 Marriott Hotels & Resorts properties (198,755 rooms),
excluding JW Marriott and Marriott Conference Centers.

At year-end 2009, there were 11Marriott Conference
Centers(3,243 rooms) throughout the United States. Some of the centers are used exclusively by employees of sponsoring organizations, while others are marketed to outside meeting groups and individuals. In addition to the features found in
a typical Marriott full-service property, the centers typically include expanded meeting room space, banquet and dining facilities, and recreational facilities.

JW Marriottis a brand made up of a collection of beautiful properties and resorts that cater to accomplished, discerning travelers seeking an elegant environment with discreet personal
service. At year-end 2009, there were 43 properties (18,463 rooms) primarily located in gateway cities and upscale locations throughout the world. JW Marriott offers anticipatory service and exceptional amenities, many with world-class golf and spa
facilities. In addition to the features found in a typical Marriott full-service property, the facilities and amenities at JW Marriott properties normally include larger guest rooms, higher end décor and furnishings, upgraded in-room
amenities, upgraded executive lounges, business centers and fitness centers, and 24-hour room service.



Marriott Hotels & Resorts, Marriott Conference Centers, and JW MarriottGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009PropertiesUnited States (42 states and the District of Columbia)353(140,160 rooms)Non-U.S. (57 countries and territories)Americas44Continental Europe35United Kingdom and Ireland52Asia39Middle East and Africa17Australia5Total Non-U.S.192(58,595 rooms)

Renaissance Hotelsis a distinctive, global, full-service lifestyle
brand that targets business and leisure travelers seeking to expand their horizons and live life to the fullest.

Renaissance
Hotels properties are generally located at downtown locations in major cities, in suburban office parks, near major gateway airports, and in destination resorts. Renaissance hotels echo and embrace their locales-from exquisite, historic castles, to
meticulously modern skyscrapers. Most properties contain from 300 to 500 rooms, featuring indigenous and intriguing design elements, distinctive restaurants and lounges, unique in-room dining options, state-of-the-art technology, and inspiring
meeting and banquet facilities. At year-end 2009, there were 143 Renaissance Hotels properties (50,582 rooms), including two Renaissance ClubSport properties (349 rooms).







Renaissance HotelsGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009PropertiesUnited States (28 states and the District of Columbia)79(28,918 rooms)Non-U.S. (30 countries and territories)Americas7Continental Europe24United Kingdom and Ireland4Asia23Middle East and Africa6Total Non-U.S.64(21,664 rooms)

Courtyard

The Market



CourtyardGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009PropertiesUnited States (49 states and the District of Columbia)768(107,640 rooms)Non-U.S. (32 countries and territories)Americas32Continental Europe33United Kingdom and Ireland2Asia17Middle East and Africa3Australia3Total Non-U.S.90(17,566 rooms)

Fairfield Inn & Suitesis our hotel brand that competes in the
moderate-price tier and is primarily aimed at value-conscious business travelers. Fairfield Inn & Suites (which includes Fairfield Inn) offers a broad range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi
access in the lobby, on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), a business center/lobby computer with Internet access and print capability, complimentary hot continental breakfast buffet,The Market(a self-serve food store
open 24 hours a day, at most locations), exercise facilities (at most locations), and a swimming pool. A typical Fairfield Inn & Suites or Fairfield Inn property has 60 to 140 rooms in suburban locations and up to 200 rooms in urban
destinations. At year-end 2009, there were 342 Fairfield Inn & Suites properties and 287 Fairfield Inn properties (629 properties total), operating in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.



Fairfield Inn & Suites and Fairfield InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009PropertiesUnited States (49 states)620(55,622 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (Canada and Mexico)9(1,109 rooms)

SpringHill Suitesis our all-suite brand in the upper-moderate-price
tier primarily targeting business travelers. SpringHill Suites properties typically have 90 to 165 suites that have approximately 25 percent more space than a traditional hotel guest room with separate areas for sleeping, working, and relaxing. The
brand offers a broad range of amenities, including free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby,The Market(a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day), complimentary hot breakfast buffet, lobby computer and
on-site business services (copying, faxing, and printing), exercise facilities, and a swimming pool. At year-end 2009, there were 256 properties (29,970 rooms) located in the United States and Canada.

Residence Innis North America’s leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for business and leisure travelers
staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, working, and kitchen areas. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines







through free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, on-site exercise options, and comfortable places to work or relax. Additional amenities include free hot
breakfast and evening social events, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2009, there were 608 Residence Inn properties (73,412 rooms) located in the United States, Canada,
and Mexico.



Residence InnGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009PropertiesUnited States (47 states and the District of Columbia)591(70,995 rooms)Non-U.S. Americas (Canada and Mexico)17(2,417 rooms)

TownePlace Suitesis a moderately priced extended-stay hotel brand that is designed
to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Designed for the self-sufficient, value-conscious traveler, each suite generally provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home
office. TownePlace Suites associates are trained to provide insightful local knowledge, and each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests settle in to the local area. Additional amenities include housekeeping services, on-site
exercise facilities, an outdoor pool, 24-hour staffing, free in-room high-speed Internet access and free Wi-Fi access in the lobby, and laundry facilities. At year-end 2009, 184 TownePlace Suites properties (18,451 rooms) were located in 41 states.

Marriott ExecuStayprovides furnished corporate apartments primarily for long-term stays nationwide. ExecuStay
owns no residential real estate and provides units primarily through short-term lease agreements with apartment owners and managers and franchise agreements. At year-end 2009, Marriott leased approximately 1,750 apartments and our 10 franchisees
leased approximately 2,100 apartments. Apartments are located in 43 different markets in the United States, of which 35 are franchised.

Marriott Executive Apartments.We provide temporary housing (“Serviced Apartments”) for business executives and others who need quality accommodations outside their home
country, usually for 30 or more days. Some Serviced Apartments operate under theMarriott Executive Apartmentsbrand, which is designed specifically for the long-term international traveler. At year-end 2009, 20 Marriott Executive Apartments
and three other Serviced Apartments properties (3,911 rooms total) were located in 14 countries and territories. All Marriott Executive Apartments are located outside the United States.







Luxury Segment Lodging Products

The Ritz-Carltonis a leading global luxury lifestyle brand of hotels and resorts renowned for their distinctive architecture
and for the high quality level of their facilities, dining options, and exceptional personalized guest service. Most of The Ritz-Carlton hotels have 250 to 400 guest rooms and typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of
restaurants and lounges, a club level, gift shops, high-speed Internet access, flat-screen high-definition televisions, swimming pools, and parking facilities. Guests at most of The Ritz-Carlton resorts have access to additional recreational
amenities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, and health spas. A number of the domestic hotels also include residences that provide luxurious real estate choices from one-bedroom apartments to spacious penthouses, and residents can avail
themselves of the services and facilities offered by the hotel. Certain other residences projects are stand-alone and not associated with a Ritz-Carlton hotel. In each case, we manage the related owners’ associations.



The Ritz-CarltonGeographic Distribution at Year-End 2009(1)PropertiesUnited States (19 states and the District of Columbia)65(14,728 rooms)Non-U.S. (23 countries and territories)Americas7Continental Europe7United Kingdom and Ireland1Asia17Middle East and Africa6Total Non-U.S.38(10,738 rooms)



(1)Includes 26 home and condominium projects (2,706 units) for which we manage the related owners’ associations.

Bulgari Hotels & Resorts.Through a joint venture with jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari SpA, we
operate distinctive luxury hotel properties in prime locations under the name Bulgari Hotels & Resorts. The first property (58 rooms), the Bulgari Hotel Milano, opened in Milan, Italy, in 2004. The second property, the Bulgari Resort Bali,
opened in late 2006 and includes 59 private villas, two restaurants, and comprehensive spa facilities. In November 2007, we opened two new restaurants in Tokyo, Japan, which we operate in connection with two new Bulgari retail stores. Other projects
are currently in various stages of development in Europe, Asia, and North America.

EDITION.In 2007, we
announced that we had entered into an agreement with hotel innovator Ian Schrager to create next-generation lifestyle boutique hotels to be designed by Schrager and operated by Marriott. The EDITION brand will offer a personal, intimate,
individualized, and unique lodging experience on a global scale. The first EDITION hotel is expected to open in 2010.

Timeshare Segment Lodging Products

TheMarriott Vacation Club(“MVC”) brand offers
full-service villas featuring living and dining areas, one-, two-, and three-bedroom options, a full kitchen, and washer/dryer units. Customers may purchase a one-week interval or more at each resort. In 52 locations worldwide, this brand draws
United States and international customers who vacation regularly with a focus on family, relaxation, and recreational activities. In the United States, in addition to other areas, MVC is located in beach and/or golf communities in Arizona,
California, South Carolina, Florida, and Hawaii, in ski resorts in California, Colorado, and Utah, and in Las Vegas, Nevada. Internationally, MVC has resorts in Aruba, France, Spain, St. Thomas (U.S. Virgin Islands), the West Indies, and Thailand.

The Ritz-Carlton Destination Clubbrand offers a luxury-tier fractional ownership product that combines the
benefits of second-home ownership with personalized services and amenities. This brand is designed as a private club whose members have access to all The Ritz-Carlton Clubs, and is offered in ski, golf, and beach destinations in the Bahamas,
California, Colorado, St. Thomas (U.S. Virgin Islands), Florida, and Hawaii. Customers have the option to purchase multiple-week intervals and points-based equity memberships.

The Ritz-Carlton Residencesbrand offers luxury-tier personal residences that combine the benefits of second-home ownership
with personalized services and amenities. Typically located in golf or beach destinations, The Ritz-Carlton Residences developed by us are currently in sales at locations in the Bahamas, California, Florida, and Hawaii.

Grand Residences by Marriottis an upper-quality-tier fractional ownership and personal residence brand for corporate and
leisure customers. This brand is currently offering ownership in projects located in Lake Tahoe, California, Panama City, Florida, Kauai, Hawaii, and London, England. Customers typically purchase three-to-13-week intervals.







The Timeshare segment’s owner base continues to expand, with approximately 398,000
owners at year-end 2009, compared to approximately 391,000 at year-end 2008.



Timeshare (all brands)Geographic Distribution at Year-End 2009ResortsUnitsContinental United States468,897Hawaii81,682Caribbean71,048Europe5932Asia3332Total6912,891

New Lodging Products

Autograph Collection.In November 2009, we announced the launch of the Autograph Collection, a new brand within the
Company’s global portfolio that will be comprised of upper-upscale and luxury, independent hotels located in major cities and desired destinations worldwide.

The Autograph Collection will take the innovative approach of grouping these iconic hotels according to the unique experience that guests are seeking whether it is a resort, historic hotel, boutique arts,
or urban-edge hotel in a dynamic gateway city. Each hotel will be unique and distinct with its own identity, appealing to a growing segment of our customers who are looking for an experience that an independent hotel can deliver.

We expect to sign contracts to add approximately 25 or more existing hotels to this portfolio through 2010, with locations throughout the
world.

Other Activities

Marriott Golf manages 42 golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners.

We operate 13 systemwide hotel reservation centers, eight in the United States and Canada and five in other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide,
including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and lease the others.

We focus on
increasing value for the consumer and “selling the way the customer wants to buy.” Our Look No Further®Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott
reservation channel. Also key to our success is our strong Marriott Rewards loyalty program and our information-rich and easy-to-usewww.Marriott.comwebsite. Our reservation system manages and controls inventory availability and pricing set
by our hotels and allows us to utilize online and offline agents where cost effective. With almost 3,500 hotels, economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners, and enhance our fee revenue.

During 2009, we unveiled the first in a series of improvements towww.Marriott.comthat will make it easier
for guests to find and book hotels and manage their Marriott Rewards accounts online. With 75 percent of our guests saying they use our website when planning or booking their stay and with over $6 billion in annual property-level gross revenues,www.Marriott.comis one of the largest online retail sites. The upgrade towww.Marriott.com, which includes our North American website, as well as our international websites in the United Kingdom, Germany, China, Latin America,
Australia, Japan, South Korea, Brazil and France, allows for faster bookings and one-click guest access to a Marriott Rewards®account. These changes are designed to generate more revenue and further reduce booking costs. The redesign extends to Marriott’s industry-leading Travel Agent
website (www.Marriott.com/travelagents), which includes new functionalities such as allowing travel agents easier access and booking of our rates and the ability to view commission statements online. Additionally, Marriott’s certified
Hotel Sales Specialists can create their own user-friendly name and password for easier navigation of the site.

Building on more than 20 years of energy conservation experience, we are committed to protecting the environment. Our “Spirit to Preserve®” environmental strategy calls for: greening our $10 billion supply chain; further reducing fuel and water consumption by 25 percent per available room; creating
green construction standards for hotel developers to achieve LEED®(Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design) certifications—an internationally recognized green building certification system designed by the U.S. Green Building Council; educating and inspiring employees and guests to support the environment; and helping protect the rainforest.
Earlier in 2009, we invited guests to add to our $2 million commitment to help save the rainforest in Brazil.







For new properties, we have introduced a green hotel prototype that is in the process of
being pre-certified LEED compliant. The green hotel prototype will save owners approximately $100,000 and six months in design time, and reduce a hotel’s energy and water consumption by up to 25 percent, based on national averages. These
savings, combined with incentives offered in many jurisdictions, could provide a payback for the LEED building investment in about two years. The U.S. Travel Association confirms that travelers place the importance of supporting environmentally
responsible travel service suppliers as a necessity, even in an economic downturn.

Sales Force One, a sales deployment
strategy that aligns sales efforts around customer needs, reduces duplication of sales efforts and enables coverage for a larger number of accounts. To support this strategy, we continue to realign our sales organization to provide total account
management for group, business transient, extended-stay, and catering customers. The rollout of Sales Force One, which began in late 2007, is scheduled for completion by mid-2011. The realigned sales organization is known as Global Sales, which is
made up of four components: Enterprise Sales, which is responsible for setting overall segment strategies and account-specific strategies for large corporate and association customers; Area Sales, assigned to a designated geographical area, and
which is responsible for proactively selling a cross-brand portfolio; Property Sales, which is responsible for booking group and catering business that falls outside Sales Office parameters; and The Sales Office, which is responsible for evaluating
and closing inbound leads, developing new business and executing event planning for select-service and extended-stay hotels.

Our Architecture and Construction (“A&C”) division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the
scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, A&C provides these services for owners and franchisees of Marriott-branded properties on a fee basis.

Competition

We encounter
strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. We believe that by operating a number of hotels among our brands, we stay in direct touch with customers and react to changes in the marketplace more quickly than chains that rely
exclusively on franchising. There are approximately 852 lodging management companies in the United States, including several that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several
large national chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or
performance criteria are not met.

In the current economic environment, faced with significant reductions in demand, we have
taken steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we have focused these efforts on areas that have limited or no impact on the guest experience. While additional cost reductions may become
necessary to preserve operating margins, we would expect to implement any such efforts in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, to help maintain or increase our market share.

Affiliation with a national or regional brand is prevalent in the U.S. lodging industry. In 2009, approximately 69 percent of U.S. hotel
rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. The franchising business is concentrated, with the six largest
franchisors operating multiple brands accounting for a significant proportion of all U.S. rooms.

Outside the United States,
branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in overseas markets as local economies grow,
trade barriers are reduced, international travel accelerates and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs.

Based on lodging industry data, we have a 10 percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate less than a 1 percent share of the lodging market outside the United States.
We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically generate higher occupancies and Revenue per Available Room (“RevPAR”) than our direct
competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our
reservation systems and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction are contributing factors across all of our brands.







Properties that we operate or franchise are regularly upgraded to maintain their
competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with
periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the hotels and timeshare properties. Competitor hotels converting to one of Marriott’s brands typically complete renovations
as needed in conjunction with the conversion.

The vacation ownership industry is comprised of a number of highly competitive
companies including several branded hotel companies. Since entering the timeshare industry in 1984, we have become a recognized leader in vacation ownership worldwide. Competition in the timeshare interval, fractional, and residential business is
based primarily on the quality and location of timeshare resorts, trust in the brand, the pricing of product offerings, and the availability of program benefits, such as exchange programs. We believe that our focus on offering distinct vacation
experiences, combined with our financial strength, diverse market presence, strong brands, and well-maintained properties, will enable us to remain competitive. Approximately 65 percent of our timeshare ownership resort sales came from additional
purchases by or referrals from existing owners in 2009, as compared to 53 percent in 2008. The increase in 2009 reflected additional marketing and promotional efforts.

Marriott Rewards is our frequent guest program with over 32 million members and nine participating Marriott brands. The Marriott Rewards program yields repeat guest business by rewarding frequent
stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 31 participating airline programs. We believe that Marriott Rewards generates substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In 2009,
approximately 50 percent of our room nights were purchased by Marriott Rewards members. In addition, the ability of timeshare owners to convert unused intervals into Marriott Rewards points enhances the competitive position of our timeshare brands.
We continue to enhance our Marriott Rewards loyalty program offerings and specifically and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. In 2009, the Marriott Rewards program eliminated blackout dates at nearly 2,900 hotels
worldwide, giving Marriott Rewards members greater access to redemption nights at the Company’s brands. Our loyal Marriott Rewards member base is a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts.

Discontinued Operations

Synthetic Fuel

Our synthetic fuel operation consisted of four coal-based synthetic fuel production facilities (the
“Facilities”). Because tax credits under Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) were not available for the production and sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal after calendar year-end 2007, we shut down the
Facilities and permanently ceased production of synthetic fuel in late 2007. Accordingly, we now report this business segment as a discontinued operation. Contemporaneously with the shutdown, we transferred the Facilities to the lessors of the sites
where the Facilities were located in exchange for the release of our obligations under the leases to restore the premises to their original conditions. The book value of the Facilities was zero at year-end 2007, as a result of the Facilities being
transferred to the lessors. Costs associated with shutting down the synthetic fuel operation and transferring the Facilities to the site lessors were not material.

Employee Relations

At year-end 2009, we had approximately 137,000
employees, approximately 7,900 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive.

Environmental Compliance

The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state and local laws
and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management and disposal of
hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation of properties and our development of properties comply, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Our
compliance with such provisions also has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, nor do we anticipate that such compliance will have a material impact in the future.

Internet Address and Company SEC Filings

Our Internet address iswww.Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website,www.Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic SEC filings, including our annual
report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. All such filings are available free of charge and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The
information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).







