Item 1A. Risk Factors.

The quick service restaurant pizza category is highly competitive and such competition could adversely affect our operating results.

In the U.S., we compete against regional and local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut®,
Papa John’s®and Little Caesars Pizza®. Internationally, we compete primarily with Pizza Hut®, Papa John’s®and country-specific national and local companies. We could experience increased competition from existing or new
companies in the pizza category which could create increasing pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. Additionally, we face growing competition from the supermarket industry and meal kit and food delivery providers,
with the improvement of prepared food offerings and the trend towards convergence in grocery, deli, retail and restaurant services. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand
for our products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share, all of which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our stock price to decline.

We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. Competition from delivery aggregators
and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years. The overall food service market and the quick service restaurant sector are intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, image, convenience and concept, and
are often affected by changes in:



•consumer tastes;



•international, national, regional or local economic conditions;



•disposable purchasing power;



•demographic trends; and



•currency fluctuations related to international operations.

We compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant sector not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees,
including drivers, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. Our supply chain segment is also subject to competition from outside suppliers. While all U.S. franchisees purchased food, equipment and supplies from us in 2018, U.S.
franchisees are not required to purchase food, equipment or supplies from us and they may choose to purchase from outside suppliers. If other suppliers who meet our qualification standards were to offer lower prices or better service to our
franchisees for their ingredients and supplies and, as a result, our franchisees chose not to purchase from our U.S. supply chain centers, our financial condition, business and results of operations would be adversely affected.

If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new U.S. and international stores, our ability to increase our revenues
and operating profits could be adversely affected.

A significant component of our growth strategy includes the opening of new U.S. and
international stores. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new stores, including, among others:



•availability of financing with acceptable terms;



•selection and availability of suitable new store sites and the ability to renew leases in quality locations;



•negotiation of acceptable lease or financing terms;



•securing required U.S. or foreign governmental permits, licenses and approvals;



•employment and training of qualified personnel; and



•general economic and business conditions.

The opening of additional franchise stores also depends, in part, upon the availability of prospective franchisees who meet our criteria. Our failure to add a
significant number of new stores would adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and operating income. Additionally, our growth strategy and the success of new stores depend in large part on the availability of suitable store sites. If we
and our franchisees are not able to secure leases in desired locations on favorable terms, or to renew such leases, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.

We and our franchisees are currently planning to expand our U.S. and international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in select
new markets. This may require considerable management time as well asstart-upexpenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may
achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we continue to expand internationally, we or our franchisees may not experience the operating
margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our common stock price may decline.







We may also pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our business. If we are able to identify acquisition
candidates, such acquisitions may be financed, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, with substantial debt or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities.

The food service market is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may reduce the demand for our
products, which would reduce sales and harm our business.

Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, international,
national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid pizza and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier, our
business and operating results would be harmed. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for pizza should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu, as many other food
service businesses do. The preferences of customers also may change as a result of advances in technology or alternative delivery methods or channels. If we are not able to respond to these changes, or our competitors respond to these changes more
effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.

Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively
manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business.

In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of
social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other persons. The rising popularity of social media
and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. The dissemination of information via social media could harm our business, brand, reputation, marketing partners, financial condition,
and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. This could include negative publicity related to our food products or stores or negative publicity related to actions by our executives, team members or franchisees.

In addition, we frequently use social media to communicate with consumers and the public in general. Failure to use social media effectively could lead to a
decline in brand value and revenue. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our brand, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or
malicious dissemination of false information.

Reports of food-borne illness or food tampering could reduce sales and harm our business.

Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as E. coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella)
and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the QSR sector and could in the future as well. The potential for acts of terrorism affecting our global food supply also exists and, if such
an event occurs, it could have a negative impact on us and could severely hurt sales and profits. In addition, our reputation is an important asset; as a result, anything that damages our reputation could immediately and severely affect our sales
and profits. Media reports of illnesses and injuries, whether accurate or not, could force some stores to close or otherwise reduce sales at such stores. Moreover, as described above, social media has dramatically increased the rate at which
negative publicity, including as it relates to food-borne illness, can be disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to respond to or address an issue. Even reports of food-borne illnesses or food tampering occurring solely at the
restaurants of competitors could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect us on a local, regional, national or international basis.

We do not have long-term contracts with certain of our suppliers, and as a result they could seek to significantly increase prices or fail to deliver.

We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our suppliers. Although in the past we have not experienced significant
problems with our suppliers, our suppliers may implement significant price increases or may not meet our requirements in a timely fashion, or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results.

We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of food products that meet our specifications. In addition, we have single suppliers or a limited
number of suppliers for certain of our ingredients, including pizza cheese and meat toppings. While we believe there are adequate reserve quantities and potential alternative suppliers, shortages or interruptions in the supply of food products
caused by increased demand, capacity constraints, problems in production or distribution, financial or other difficulties of suppliers, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients,
could adversely affect our operating results.







Increases in food, labor and other costs could adversely affect our profitability and operating
results.

20-25%

Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our dough manufacturing and supply chain centers could harm our business.

We operate 19 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers, one thin crust manufacturing center and one vegetable processing center in the U.S. and
five dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada. We plan to continue investing in additional supply chain capacity in the future.

Our U.S.
dough manufacturing and supply chain centers service all of our Company-owned and U.S. franchise stores. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction
or damage to the facility, real estate issues, limited capacity or other reasons, could adversely affect our business and operating results.

Our
success depends in part upon effective advertising, and lower advertising funds may reduce our ability to adequately market the Domino’s Pizza brand.

We have been routinely named a Leading National Advertiser byAdvertising Age. Each Domino’s store located in the contiguous U.S. is obligated to
pay a percentage of its sales in advertising fees. In fiscal 2018, each store in the contiguous U.S. generally was required to contribute 6% of their sales to DNAF (subject, in certain instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and
waivers), which uses such fees for national advertising in addition to contributions for local market-level advertising. We currently anticipate that this 6% contribution rate will remain in place for the foreseeable future. While additional funds
for advertising in the past have been provided by us, our franchisees and other third parties, none of these additional funds are legally required. The lack of continued financial support for advertising activities could significantly curtail our
marketing efforts, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and our operating results.

We face risks of litigation,
investigations, enforcement actions and negative publicity from customers, franchisees, suppliers, employees, regulators and others in the ordinary course of business, which can or could divert our financial and management resources. Litigation,
investigations, enforcement actions or publicity may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

Claims of illness or
injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and vehicular accidents and injuries occur in the food delivery business. Claims within our industry of improper supplier actions also occasionally arise that,
if made against one of our suppliers, could potentially damage our brand image. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick
service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated withhigh-fatfoods and that quick service restaurant marketing practices have encouraged obesity. State attorney general offices or
other regulators may initiate investigations or enforcement actions against us. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity or a substantial settlement, fine, penalty or judgment
against us could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and brand reputation, thereby hindering our ability to attract and retain franchisees and grow our business.







Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other
things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, and those claims relating to overtime compensation. We have been and continue to be subject to these types of claims. If one or more of these claims
were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims or if we receive significant negative publicity, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed.

Loss of key employees or our inability to attract and retain new qualified employees could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow
successfully.

Our success in the highly competitive pizza delivery andcarry-outbusiness will continue to
depend to a significant extent on our leadership team and other key management personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Richard E. Allison Jr., and Russell J. Weiner, each of these executives may terminate his agreement on
ninety days’ notice. Our other executive officers may terminate their employment pursuant to their employment agreements at any time. As a result, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional
qualified management. While we do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, for all of our executive officers we havenon-competeandnon-solicitationagreements that extend for 24 months following the termination of such executive officer’s employment. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel to operate our stores, dough manufacturing and supply chain centers and international operations. The loss of these employees or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results.

Adverse global economic conditions subject us to additional risk.

Our financial condition and results of operations are impacted by global markets and economic conditions over which neither we nor our franchisees have
control. An economic downturn, including deterioration in the economic conditions in the U.S. or international markets where we compete, may result in a reduction in the demand for our products, longer payment cycles, slower adoption of new
technologies and increased price competition.

Poor economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our franchisees to pay royalties or amounts
owed and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to pursue our growth strategy, which would reduce cash collections and in turn, may materially and adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations.

Our international operations subject us to additional risk. Such risks and costs may differ in each country in which we and our franchisees do business
and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs.

We conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the U.S.
Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if global markets in which our franchise stores compete are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which neither we nor our
franchisees have control, may include:



•recessionary or expansive trends in international markets;



•changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations;



•increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws;



•tariffs and trade barriers;



•legal and regulatory changes, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws;



•changes in inflation rates;



•changes in exchange rates and the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds;



•difficulty in collecting our royalties and longer payment cycles;



•expropriation of private enterprises;



•increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of the Domino’s Pizzabrand as an American brand;



•political and economic instability and uncertainty around the world, including uncertainty arising as a result of
the United Kingdom’s referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit”; and



•other external factors.







Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower
revenues and earnings.

Exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Approximately 6.5% of our total
revenues in 2018, 7.4% of our total revenues in 2017 and 7.2% of our total revenues in 2016 were derived from our international franchise segment, a majority of which were denominated in foreign currencies. We also operate dough manufacturing and
distribution facilities in Canada, which generate revenues denominated in Canadian dollars. Sales made by franchise stores outside the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and this currency could become
less valuable in U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could lead to increased prices to customers outside the U.S. or lower profitability to our franchisees outside the U.S., or could result in
lower revenues for us, on a U.S. dollar basis, from such customers and franchisees. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency rates in our international markets would have resulted in a negative impact on international royalty
revenues of approximately $20.0 million in 2018.

Our earnings and business growth strategy depends on the success of our franchisees, and we
may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees, or employees of our franchisees, that are outside of our control.

A significant portion of our
earnings comes from royalties and fees generated by our franchise stores. Franchisees are independent operators, and their employees are not our employees. We provide tools for franchisees to use in training their employees, but the quality of
franchise store operations and our brand and branded products may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Franchisees may not operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or they or their employees may
take other actions that adversely affect the value of our brand. In such event, our business and reputation may suffer, and as a result our revenues and stock price could decline.

As of December 30, 2018, we had 793 U.S. franchisees operating 5,486 U.S. stores. Seventeen of these franchisees each own and operate more than 50 U.S.
stores, including our largest U.S. franchisee who owns and operates 179 stores, and the average franchisee owns and operates seven stores.

Our
international master franchisees are generally responsible for the development of significantly more stores than our U.S. franchisees. As a result, our international operations are more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of franchisees
than our U.S. operations. Our largest international master franchisee operates 2,383 stores in seven markets, which accounts for approximately 24% of our total international store count. Our U.S. and international franchisees may not operate their
franchises successfully. If one or more of our key franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable or unwilling to pay us our royalties or other amounts owed, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.

We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and branded products and adversely affect
our business.

We depend in large part on our brand and branded products and believe that they are very important to our business. We rely on a
combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks in order to increase
brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both U.S. and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark applications pending in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks
that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks and our use of these trademarks may
result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and in foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some
foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Further, through acquisitions of third parties, we may acquire brands and related trademarks that are subject to the same risks as the brands
and trademarks we currently own.

We may, from time to time, be required to institute or defend litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual
property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully
enforce our rights.







The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our
business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of confidential information, or damage to our employee and business relationships, any of which could subject us to loss and harm our brand.

A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More
specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information about customers, franchisees, suppliers
or employees. A number of retailers and other companies have recently experienced serious cyber incidents and breaches of their information technology systems. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both
internal and those we have outsourced. The three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationships with customers, franchisees and employees and private
data exposure. In addition to maintaining insurance coverage to address cyber incidents, we have also implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks. However, our cyber insurance coverage may not fully cover the costs of
a cyber incident and these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our reputation and financial results will not be adversely affected by such an incident.

Because we and our franchisees accept electronic forms of payment from customers, our business requires the collection and retention of customer data,
including sensitive financial data and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that we and our franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we and our franchisees contract to provide
payment processing. A weakness in such third party’s systems or software products may provide a mechanism for a cyber threat. In recent years, a significant number of companies have experienced security breaches in which customer information
was stolen through vendor access channels. While we select our third-party suppliers carefully, cyber attacks and security breaches at a payment processing contractor could compromise confidential information or adversely affect our ability to
deliver products and services to our customers. These problems could negatively affect our results of operations, and remediation could result in significant, unplanned capital investments.

We may also become subject to private lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent
transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our consumers’ credit or debit card information or if consumer or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately. Any such claim or proceeding, or any
adverse publicity resulting from such an event, may have a material adverse effect on our business and the potential of incurring significant remediation costs.







We are subject to extensive government regulation and requirements issued by other groups and our
failure to comply with existing or increased regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results.

We are subject to numerous
federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, as well as requirements issued by other groups, including those relating to:



•the preparation, sale and labeling of food;



•building and zoning requirements;



•environmental protection;



•labor and employment, including minimum wage, overtime, insurance and other labor requirements;



•working and safety conditions;



•franchise arrangements;



•public company compliance, disclosure and governance matters;



•taxation;



•antitrust;



•discrimination;



•payment card industry standards and requirements; and



•information privacy and consumer protection.

We are subject to a Federal Trade Commission rule and to various state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. These laws regulate
various aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or
temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines or other penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.

In 2015, the National Labor Relations Board adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to
be a joint employer of the same employees under the National Labor Relations Act. Although elements of this joint employer liability standard continue to be subject to judicial review, if this standard is generally upheld or adopted by other
government agencies such as the Department of Labor, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and/or applied generally to franchise relationships, it could cause us to be liable or held
responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations of our franchisees and subject us to other liabilities, and require us to conduct collective bargaining negotiations regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most
notably our franchisees. In such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines
and civil liability.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended, the “Affordable Care Act”) requires employers such as us to
provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. The majority of the increases in these costs began in 2015, and while the incremental costs of this program have not been material to us to date, we
cannot predict what effect these costs will have on our results of operations and financial position, or the effects of the Affordable Care Act on some of our larger franchisees. Modifications to, or repeal of, all or certain provisions of the
Affordable Care Act are possible, consistent with statements made by certain elected officials.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax
Act”) was signed into law on December 22, 2017, significantly reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. Federal tax rates, imposes significant additional
limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions
and credits. We continue to examine the impact the 2017 Tax Act may have on our business. The estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act is based on our management’s current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially
different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. We revalued our net deferred tax assets and liabilities at the newly enacted corporate tax rate in fiscal 2017 and recorded a significantly lower
effective tax rate in 2018. Although some uncertainty remains about the effects of this new legislation on our business, we currently expect lower effective tax rates for the Company in 2018 will continue in future periods.

We may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulatehigh-fatfoods, foods with high
sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” and our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation and compliance measures related to these laws or regulations.







If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or
judicial fines, sanctions and other enforcement measures.

Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, insurance premiums for such coverage
may increase and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all.

We have retention programs for workers’ compensation,
general liability and owned andnon-ownedautomobile liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $1.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and
general liability. We are generally responsible for between $500,000 and $3.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned andnon-ownedautomobile liabilities. Total insurance limits
under these retention programs vary depending upon the period covered and range up to $110.0 million per occurrence for general liability and owned andnon-ownedautomobile liabilities and up to the
applicable statutory limits for workers’ compensation. These insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, in the future our insurance premiums may increase and we may not be
able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control,
and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline significantly.

Our sales and operating
results can vary significantly fromquarter-to-quarterandyear-to-yeardepending on
various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things:



•variations in the timing and volume of our sales and our franchisees’ sales;



•the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales;



•sales promotions by us and our competitors;



•changes in competitive and economic conditions generally;



•changes in the cost or availability of our ingredients or labor; and



•foreign currency exposure.

As a result, our operational performance may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our
products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future.

Our common stock price could be subject to significant
fluctuations and/or may decline.

The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could
affect our stock price are:



•planned or actual changes to our capital or debt structure;



•variations in our operating results;



•changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts;



•speculation in the press or investment community;



•strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions, acquisitions or restructurings;



•actions by institutional and other stockholders;



•changes in our dividend policy or any share repurchase program;



•changes in the market values of public companies that operate in our business segments;



•maintenance and growth of the value of our brand;



•significant litigation;



•legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;



•general market conditions; and



•U.S. and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.

The stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad
market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.







Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or
respond to changes in our business.

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 30, 2018, our consolidated total
indebtedness was approximately $3.53 billion. We may also incur additional debt, which would not be prohibited under the terms of our current securitized debt agreements. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for our
business and our shareholders. For example, it could:



•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt agreements;



•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;



•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness,
thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and



•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we
operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers that may have less debt.

Further, a portion of our
indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates based on the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”), and there is currently uncertainty around whether LIBOR will continue to exist after 2021. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we may
need to renegotiate certain loan documents and we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our lenders. As a result, our interest expense could increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and
funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected.

In addition, the financial and
other covenants we agreed to with our lenders may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to
us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of repayment of all of our indebtedness.

Downgrades in our credit ratings could impact our ability to access capital and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Our debt is rated by credit rating agencies. These agencies may downgrade their credit ratings for us based on the
performance of our business, our capital strategies or their overall view of our industry. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding indebtedness will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any
such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. A downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things, increase our cost of borrowing, limit our
ability to access capital, result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, or require us to provide
collateral for future borrowings, and thereby adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may be unable to
generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a
certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at
all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate
sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal amortization and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay
capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business
may be harmed.







The terms of our securitized debt financing of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have
restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects.

Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The
securitized debt, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued and guaranteed fixed rate notes and variable funding senior revolving notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt
service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:



•sell assets;



•alter the business we conduct;



•engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations;



•declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock;



•incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees;



•make loans and investments;



•incur liens; and



•enter into transactions with affiliates.

The securitized debt also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios at the end of each fiscal quarter. These restrictions could affect our ability to
pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of this covenant could result in a rapid amortization event
or default under the securitized debt. If amounts owed under the securitized debt are accelerated because of a default under the securitized debt and we are unable to pay such amounts, the investors may have the right to assume control of
substantially all of the securitized assets.

During the term following issuance, the outstanding senior notes will accrue interest in accordance with the
terms of the debt agreements. Additionally, our senior notes have original scheduled principal payments of $35.3 million in each of 2019 through 2021, $888.0 million in 2022, $26.3 million in each of 2023 and 2024, $1.14 billion
in 2025, $14.0 million in 2026 and $1.27 billion in 2027. In accordance with our debt agreements, the payment of principal on the outstanding senior notes shall be suspended if the leverage ratios for the Company are less than or equal to
5.0x total debt, as defined, to adjusted EBITDA, as defined, and nocatch-upprovisions are applicable. As of December 30, 2018, we also had $65.0 million outstanding under our variable funding notes
with a legal maturity date in July 2022, subject to two additionalone-yearextensions at the option of the Company, subject to certain conditions.

If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt prior to the expiration of the term, our cash flow would be directed to the
repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly management fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business.

No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In
addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or
additional financing.

The indenture governing the securitized debt will restrict the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of
our other entities and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted.

In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs
under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of its term), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn
reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.







