Item 1.    Business.

Overview

We are a gaming and hospitality company established in 1973 that owns and operates gaming facilities located in Louisiana, Nevada,
Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Our primary source of revenue is gaming, but we use our hotels, restaurants, bars, shops and other services to attract customers to our properties. We were
founded as a family business by the Carano family and continue to maintain our commitment to customer service, high-quality food and beverage and outstanding amenities. We believe that our
extraordinary level of personal service and the variety, quality and attractive pricing of our food and beverage outlets are important factors in attracting customers to our properties and building
customer loyalty. We own and operate the following properties:

•Eldorado Resort Casino, Shreveport ("Eldorado Shreveport")—A 403-room, all suite art deco-style hotel and tri-level
riverboat dockside casino situated on the Red River in Shreveport, Louisiana;•Eldorado Hotel and Casino, Reno ("Eldorado Reno")—A 814-room hotel, casino and entertainment facility located in downtown
Reno, Nevada;•Silver Legacy Resort Casino ("Silver Legacy")—A 1,711-room themed hotel and casino in which we own a 48.1% interest and is
located adjacent to Eldorado Reno;•Mountaineer Casino, Racetrack and Resort ("Mountaineer")—A 354-room resort with a casino and live thoroughbred horse
racing located on the Ohio River at the northern tip of West Virginia's northwestern panhandle;•Presque Isle Downs and Casino ("Presque Isle Downs")—A casino and live thoroughbred horse racing facility with slot
machines, table games and poker located in Erie, Pennsylvania; and•Scioto Downs—A live thoroughbred horse racing facility with video lottery terminals located in Columbus, Ohio.

In
addition, Scioto Downs, through its subsidiary RacelineBet, Inc., also operates Racelinebet.com, a national account wagering service that offers online and telephone wagering
on horse races as a marketing affiliate of TwinSpires.com, an affiliate of Churchill Downs, Inc.

Eldorado
Resorts, Inc. ("ERI" or the "Company"), a Nevada corporation, was formed in September 2014 to be the parent company following the merger of wholly owned subsidiaries of
the Company into Eldorado HoldCo LLC ("HoldCo"), a Nevada limited liability company formed in 2009 that is the parent company of Eldorado Resorts LLC ("Resorts"), which owns Eldorado
Shreveport, Eldorado Reno and the interest in the Silver Legacy, and MTR Gaming Group, Inc. ("MTR Gaming"), a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1988 that owns Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs
and Scioto Downs (the "Merger"). Effective upon the consummation of the Merger on September 19, 2014 (the "Merger Date"), MTR Gaming and HoldCo each became a wholly owned subsidiary of ERI and,
as a result of such transactions, Resorts became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ERI.

Properties

As of December 31, 2014, we own or operate 431,609 square feet of casino space, containing 7,829 slot machines, 240 table games,
2,150 VLTs and 3,282 hotel rooms.

For
financial reporting purposes, we aggregate our properties into three reportable business segments: (i) Eldorado Shreveport; (ii) Eldorado Reno; and (iii) MTR
Gaming. For further financial information related to our segments as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2014, see









Note 17,Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements presented in Part IV, Item 15. Financial Statement
Schedules.

The
following table sets forth certain information regarding our properties (listed by the segment in which each such property is reported), as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2014:

Year Openedor AcquiredCasinoSpace(Sq. ft.)SlotMachinesVLTsTableGamesHotelRoomsHotelOccupancyAverageDailyRateEldorado ShreveportEldorado Shreveport200528,2091,474N/A5340389.6%$64.50Eldorado RenoEldorado Reno197376,5001,223N/A4881482.0%$72.57Silver Legacy(1)199589,2001,314N/A631,71163.4%$79.72MTR GamingThe Mountaineer Casino, Racetrack & Resort199293,3002,098N/A3935482.8%$44.93Presque Isle Downs & Casino200761,4001,720N/A37N/AN/AN/AScioto Downs201283,000N/A2,150N/AN/AN/AN/A

(1)We
own a 48.1% interest in the Silver Legacy and have the right to acquire an additional 1.9% interest.

Eldorado Shreveport

Eldorado Shreveport is a premier resort casino located in Shreveport, Louisiana, the largest gaming market in Louisiana, adjacent to
Interstate 20, a major highway that connects the Shreveport market with the attractive feeder markets of East Texas and Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas. Eldorado Shreveport was built next to an existing
riverboat gaming and hotel facility formerly operated by Harrah's Entertainment and now operated by Boyd Gaming Corporation. The two casinos
form the first and only "cluster" in the Shreveport/Bossier City market, allowing patrons to park once and easily walk between the two facilities. There are currently six casinos and a racino
operating in the Shreveport/Bossier City market, which is the largest gaming market in Louisiana. The Shreveport/Bossier City gaming market permits continuous dockside gaming without cruising
requirements or simulated cruising schedules, allowing casinos to operate 24 hours a day with uninterrupted access. Based on information published by the state of Louisiana, the six casino
operators and racino in the Shreveport/Bossier City market generated approximately $736.1 million, $727.3 million, and $713.3 million in gaming revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.

The
principal target markets for Eldorado Shreveport are patrons from the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex and East Texas. There are approximately 7.2 million adults who reside within
approximately 200 miles of Shreveport/Bossier City. Eldorado Shreveport is located approximately 180 miles east of Dallas and can be reached by car in approximately three hours. Flight times are less
than one hour from both Dallas and Houston to the Shreveport Regional Airport.

Eldorado
Shreveport is a modern, Las Vegas-style resort with a gaming experience that appeals to both local gamers and out-of-town visitors. Our integrated casino and entertainment
resort benefits from the following features:

•A location that positions us as the first casino that customers reach when driving to Shreveport from our primary feeder markets and
the Shreveport Regional Airport;









•A purpose-built 80,634-square foot barge that houses approximately 28,200 square feet of gaming space, as measured by the actual
footprint of the gaming equipment, offering 1,474 slots, 53 table games and a poker room with nine tables;•An approximately 185,000 square foot land-based pavilion featuring a 60-foot high atrium that enables patrons to see the casino floor;•An 85-foot wide seamless entrance that connects the casino to the land-based pavilion on all three levels resulting in the feel of a
land-based casino;•Numerous restaurants and entertainment amenities, including a deli and ice cream shop, VIP check-in, a premium quality bar and a
retail store;•A luxurious 403-room, all-suite, hotel, with updated rooms featuring modern décor and flat screen TVs;•Part of the only "cluster" in our market that allows for walkable visits between two gaming facilities with over 900 hotel rooms;•A 380-seat ballroom with four breakout rooms, a 5,940-square foot spa, a fitness center and salon, a premium players' club and an
entertainment show room; and•Two parking lots and an eight story parking garage providing approximately 1,800 parking spaces that connects directly to the pavilion
by an enclosed walkway, including valet parking for approximately 300 vehicles.

Eldorado
Shreveport offers award winning cuisine ranging from fine dining to a sports themed casual diner. Eldorado Shreveport's four dining venues include the
following:

•The Vintage, with a seating capacity of approximately 175, is a gourmet steakhouse
offering 100% USDA prime beef and fresh seafood along with an extensive wine list;•The Cinema Cafe, with a seating capacity of approximately 24, is a self-service deli
featuring pre-made sandwiches, fresh pastries, gourmet coffees, salads, desserts and ice cream;•The Buffet, with a seating capacity of approximately 328, serves a variety of regional
to ethnic dishes, including Mexican, steak and seafood buffet, fresh salads and desserts; and•Sportsmans' Paradise Café, with a seating capacity of approximately
197, and which is located in the pavilion, offers 24-hours-a-day service with a menu featuring omelets and buttermilk pancakes to thick steaks and gourmet burgers as well as a wide variety of southern
favorites and the Noodle Bar, an authentic Asian noodle kitchen.

The
riverboat casino floats in a concrete and steel basin that raises the riverboat nearly 20 feet above the river. The basin virtually eliminates variation in the water height and
allows the boat to be permanently moored to the land-based pavilion. Eldorado Shreveport's computerized pumping system is designed to regulate the water level of the basin to a variance of no more
than three inches.

Eldorado Reno

We also own and operate Eldorado Reno, an 814-room premier hotel, casino and entertainment facility centrally located in downtown Reno,
Nevada. Reno is the second largest metropolitan area in Nevada, with a population of approximately 433,700 according to the most recently available census data, and is located at the base of the
Sierra Nevada Mountains along Interstate 80, approximately 135 miles east of Sacramento, California and 225 miles east of San Francisco, California. Reno is a destination market that
attracts year-round visitation by offering gaming, numerous summer and winter recreational activities and popular special events such as national bowling tournaments. Management believes that
approximately two-thirds of visitors to the Reno market arrive by some form of ground









transportation.
Popular special events include the National Championship Air Races, the Reno-Tahoe Open PGA tour event, Street Vibrations, a motorcycle event, and Hot August Nights, a vintage car
event.

According
to the Reno-Sparks Convention & Visitors Authority (the "Visitors Authority"), the greater Reno area attracted approximately 4.6 million and 4.7 million
visitors during the years 2014 and 2013, respectively. Based on information reported by the Visitors Authority and the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, gaming revenues for the Reno/Sparks gaming
markets were $671.6 million, $670.1 million and $644.8 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Eldorado
Reno currently offers:

•Approximately 76,500 square feet of gaming space, with 1,223 slot machines and 48 table games;•814 finely-appointed guest rooms, including 134 suites, which include "Eldorado Player's Spa Suites" with bedside spas and one or two
bedroom suites;•Nationally-recognized cuisine which ranges from buffet to gourmet;•A 566-seat showroom, a VIP lounge, three retail shops, a versatile 12,010 square foot convention center and an outdoor plaza located
diagonal to Eldorado Reno which hosts a variety of special events; and•Parking facilities for over 1,100 vehicles, including a 643-space self-park garage, a 123-space surface parking lot and a 352-space
valet parking facility.

Eldorado
Reno is centrally positioned in the heart of Reno's prime gaming area and room base and is easily accessible to both foot and vehicular traffic. With three towers, including a
26-story tower that lights up with over 2,000 feet of neon at night, Eldorado Reno is visible from Interstate 80, attracting visitors to the downtown area and generating interest in the property.
Management believes Eldorado Reno serves as a downtown landmark, situated to attract foot traffic from other casinos as well as from the local populace. In addition, Eldorado Reno is easily accessible
to visitors competing in and attending the various bowling tournaments that are held in the National Bowling Stadium and to
visitors attending events in the Reno Event Center and a city-owned downtown ballroom facility, all of which are located just one block away.

Management
believes that Eldorado Reno's casino's mix of slot machines and table games, including blackjack, craps, roulette, Pai Gow Poker, Let It Ride®, mini-baccarat, a
keno lounge, a race









and
sports book and a poker room, makes it attractive to both middle-income and premium-play customers. A diverse selection of table games and a variety of table limits encourage play from a wide
range of gaming customers, which management believes makes Eldorado Reno one of the premier table games casinos in the Reno market.

The
interior of the hotel is designed to create a European ambiance where hotel guests enjoy panoramic views of Reno's skyline and the majestic Sierra Nevada mountain range. Management
believes that attention to detail, decor and architecture have created an identifiable and innovative presence in the Reno market for Eldorado Reno.

Eldorado
Reno is nationally recognized for its cuisine. Its nine dining venues, which have an aggregate seating capacity of more than 1,400, range from buffet to gourmet and offer high
quality food at reasonable prices.

Eldorado
Reno's dining venues include the following:

•

Roxy's, with a seating capacity of approximately 160, is a Parisian-style bistro,
restaurant and bar with contemporary American influences offering French country fare, steaks and seafood along with an extensive wine list;

•

Sushi Sake, with a seating capacity of approximately 46, is located on the patio of
Roxy's, provides sushi and libations in a contemporary Euro-Asian setting;

•

La Strada, with a seating capacity of approximately 164, features northern Italian
cuisine in an Italian countryside villa setting;

•

The Brew Brothers, with a seating capacity of approximately 190, is located on the
mezzanine level and offers an expansive menu, full-scale microbrewery and nightly entertainment;

•

The Prime Rib Grill, with a seating capacity of approximately 186, is a spirited,
lively steak and seafood house specializing in prime rib and grilled entrees;

•

The Buffet, with a seating capacity of approximately 340, offers a 200-foot long
buffet with a variety of cuisines, including American, Italian, Chinese, Mexican, Hop Wok grill, a pizza station and salad, fruit and ice cream bars;

•

Millies24, with a seating capacity of approximately 227, offers a 24-hour-a-day
"coffee shop" restaurant and bakery featuring breakfast, lunch and dinner along with gourmet coffees and specialty cocktails;

•

Pho Mein, with a seating capacity of approximately 122, is an authentic Asian noodle
kitchen featuring an array of Chinese and Vietnamese favorites available for dine-in or take-out; and

•

Eldorado Coffee Companyfeatures Eldorado Reno's freshly roasted on-site blends,
offering gourmet coffee and teas along with cakes, pies, and gelato.

Eldorado
Reno's selection of high-quality food and beverages reflects our emphasis on the dining experience. Eldorado Reno chefs utilize homemade pasta, carefully chosen imported
ingredients, fresh seafood and top quality USDA choice cuts of beef. Throughout the property, beverage offerings includeThe Brew Brothersmicro brewed
beers and wines from the Ferrari Carano Winery.

Silver Legacy Resort Casino

Silver Legacy, a joint venture between Resorts and MGM Resorts International (the "Silver Legacy Joint Venture"), opened in July 1995.
Silver Legacy's design is inspired by Nevada's rich mining heritage and the legend of Sam Fairchild, a fictitious silver baron who "struck it rich" on the site of the casino. Silver Legacy's hotel,
the tallest building in northern Nevada, is a "Y"-shaped structure with three wings, consisting of 37-, 34- and 31-floor tiers. Silver Legacy's opulent interior showcases a casino









built
around Sam Fairchild's 120-foot tall mining rig, which appears to mine for silver. The rig is situated beneath a 180-foot diameter dome, which is a distinctive landmark on the Reno skyline. The
interior surface of the dome features dynamic sound and laser light shows, providing visitors with a unique experience when they are in the casino.

Silver
Legacy is situated on two city blocks, encompassing 240,000 square feet in downtown Reno. The hotel currently offers 1,711 guest rooms, including 141 player spa suites, eight
penthouse suites and seven hospitality suites. Many of the Silver Legacy's guest rooms feature views of Reno's skyline and the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The Silver Legacy's 10-story parking
facility can accommodate approximately 1,800 vehicles. As of December 31, 2014, the Silver Legacy's casino featured approximately 89,200 square feet of gaming space with approximately 1,314
slot machines and 63 table games, including blackjack, craps, roulette, Pai Gow Poker, Let It Ride®, Baccarat and Pai Gow, a keno lounge and a race and sports book. "Club Legacy," the
Silver Legacy's slot club, offers customers exciting special events and tournaments and convenient ways of earning complimentaries and slot free play.

Silver
Legacy's dining options are offered in eight venues, which have an aggregate seating capacity of more than 1,000 and include the
following:

•Sterling's Seafood Steakhouse, with a seating capacity of approximately 182, offers
steaks and seafood along with an extensive wine list, tableside desserts and a Sunday brunch;•Flavors! The Buffet, with a seating capacity of approximately 412, offers seafood,
American, Italian, Asian and Mexican cuisine;•Pearl Oyster Bar and Grill, with a seating capacity of approximately 95, offers
specialized seafood dining, an expanded bar and innovative new grill options;•Café Central, with a seating capacity of approximately 191, offers a
newly designed menu that includes American classics and Chinese cuisine 24-hours a day;•Fresh Express Food Court, with a seating capacity of approximately 102, offers a range
of options including a deli and grill, authentic Asian cuisine and American classics;•Hussong's Cantina Taqueria, fabled to be the originator of the margarita, the landmark
Hussong's Cantina of Ensenada, Mexico, features a large bar and seating capacity of approximately 80 and offers authentic Baja cuisine, sing-along rock n' roll Mariachi bands and universal appeal.
This new leased venue opened in April of 2013.•Sips Coffee & Tea, situated in the hotel lobby, offers gourmet coffee and teas;•Starbuck's Coffee Company, a new licensed franchise opened in March of 2013 and is
located on the casino floor providing a popular attraction for the downtown Reno corridor and Silver Legacy guests.

In
addition, the hotel sponsors entertainment events which are held in the hotel's convention area. Silver Legacy's other amenities include retail shops, exercise and spa facilities, a
beauty salon and an outdoor swimming pool and sundeck. A city-owned 50,000 square-foot ballroom containing approximately 35,000 square feet of convention space is operated and managed by Silver
Legacy, together with Eldorado Reno and Circus Circus-Reno, and complements the existing Reno Events Center. It provides an elegant venue for large dinner functions and convention meeting space along
with concert seating for approximately 3,000 attendees.

The
Eldorado Reno, Silver Legacy and Circus Circus-Reno properties are connected in a "seamless" manner by enclosed, climate controlled corridors. These enclosed corridors serve as
entertainment bridge ways between the three properties and house several restaurants and retail shops. Eldorado Reno, Silver Legacy and Circus Circus-Reno comprise the heart of the Reno market's prime









gaming
area and room base, providing the most extensive and the broadest variety of gaming, entertainment, lodging and dining amenities in the Reno area, with an aggregate of 4,096 rooms, 24
restaurants and enough parking to accommodate approximately 6,100 vehicles, and as of December 31, 2014, approximately 3,443 slot machines and 146 table games. We believe that the centralized
location and critical mass of these three properties, together with the ease of access between the facilities, provide Eldorado Reno with significant advantages over other freestanding hotel/casinos
in the Reno market.

Mountaineer Casino, Racetrack & Resort

Mountaineer is one of only four racetracks in West Virginia currently permitted to operate slot machines and traditional casino table
gaming. Mountaineer is located on the Ohio River at the northern tip of West Virginia's northwestern panhandle, approximately thirty miles
from the Pittsburgh International Airport and a one-hour drive from downtown Pittsburgh. Mountaineer is a diverse gaming, entertainment and convention complex with:

•

93,300 square feet of gaming space housing approximately 2,098 slot machines, 39 casino table games (including blackjack, craps,
roulette and other games), and 12 poker tables;

•

354 hotel rooms, including the 256-room, 219,000 square foot Grande Hotel at Mountaineer, 27 suites, a full-service spa and salon, a
retail plaza and indoor and outdoor swimming pools;

•

12,090 square feet of convention space, which can accommodate seated meals for groups of up to 575, as well as smaller meetings in
more intimate break-out rooms that can accommodate 75 people and entertainment events for approximately 1,500 guests;

•

Live thoroughbred horse racing conducted from March through December on a one-mile dirt surface or a7/8mile
grass surface with expansive clubhouse, restaurant, bars and concessions, as well as grandstand viewing areas with enclosed seating for 3,570 patrons;

•

On-site pari-mutuel wagering and thoroughbred, harness and greyhound racing simulcast from other prominent tracks, as well as wagering
on Mountaineer's races at over 1,400 sites to which the races are simulcast;

•

Woodview, an eighteen-hole par 71 golf course measuring approximately 6,200 yards located approximately seven miles from Mountaineer;

•

A 69,000 square foot theater and events center that seats approximately 5,000 patrons for concerts and other entertainment offerings;

•

A 13,650 square foot fitness center which has a full complement of weight training and cardiovascular equipment, as well as a health
bar, locker rooms with steam and sauna facilities, and outdoor tennis courts; and

•

Surface parking for approximately 5,300 vehicles.

Mountaineer's
dining venues include the following:

•Big Al's,a 24-hour-a-day operation that offers Starbucks coffee products, pastries,
sandwiches, pizza and ice cream;•The Riverfront Buffet,with a seating capacity of
approximately 250, offers a variety of cuisines, including American, Italian, comfort and seafood, along with a pizza station, carving station, salad and dessert bar;•The Gatsby,with a seating capacity of approximately 144, featuring breakfast, lunch,
and dinner, offers casual dining, a variety of comfort and Italian foods and daily specials;









•Mahogany Sports Bar,a sports bar that offers a variety of seasonal beverages for any
time of the year;•La Bonne Vie,"The Good Life," is a fine dining experience with a seating capacity of
approximately 68, offering in house cut CAB steaks and seafood with an extensive wine list and weekly specials;•Vickar's,located trackside and offering a variety of concession items;•Mountaineer Club,located trackside is a tiered dining room overlooking the racetrack
offering a buffet with most dining tables having a closed-circuit television monitor.

Presque Isle Downs & Casino

Presque Isle Downs & Casino ("Presque Isle Downs"), located in Erie, Pennsylvania, opened for business in 2007 and commenced
table gaming operations in 2010. The 153,400 square foot facility consists of:

•61,400 square feet of gaming space housing approximately 1,720 slot machines, 37 casino table games and a nine table poker room, which
we began operating on October 3, 2011;•Live thoroughbred horse racing conducted from May through September on a one-mile track with a state-of-the-art one-mile mile
synthetic racing surface with grandstand, barns, paddock and related facilities, and indoor and outdoor seating for approximately 750 patrons;•On-site pari-mutuel wagering and thoroughbred and harness racing simulcast from other prominent tracks, as well as wagering on Presque
Isle Downs' races at over 1,200 sites to which the races are simulcast; and•Surface parking for approximately 3,200 vehicles.

Presque
Isle Downs' dining venues include the following:

•Backstretch Buffet, with a seating capacity of approximately 250, offers a variety of
cuisines, including Chinese, Mexican, American (or comfort food selections), Italian, a pizza station along with salad, fruit and ice cream bars;•The Downs Clubhouse & Lounge, with a seating capacity of approximately 300, is
located on the second floor of the casino overlooking our state of the art thoroughbred race track, offering a casual dining experience with menu options that include casual American cuisine;•La Bonne Vie, with a seating capacity of approximately 75, is a French inspired
traditional steakhouse with an intimate setting, offering a fresh selection of steak and seafood;•The INCafé, is a 24-hour-a-day "snack shop" restaurant featuring
breakfast, lunch and dinner;•Scoopin',offers a variety of locally sourced ice cream;•Concessions,an outdoor venue open during live racing season that is also used to
service outdoor concerts on the property.

Scioto Downs

Scioto Downs is located in the heart of Central Ohio, off Highway 23/South High Street, approximately eight miles from downtown
Columbus. Columbus is the largest metropolitan area within the state of Ohio with a population of approximately 787,000 and a greater metropolitan area of approximately 1.8 million within 60
miles of downtown.









Scioto
Downs ran its first Standardbred horse race in 1959 and has since established a rich and deep connection within the regional racing community. Opening VLT operations with a new
132,000 square foot gaming facility on June 1, 2012, Scioto Downs became the first "Racino" operation in the State of Ohio. The new gaming facility was designed to integrate as much as possible
with the iconic and
instantly recognizable racing structures; blending architectural features and aspects as much as possible to ensure a fluid seamless and marketable look.

Scioto
Downs currently offers:

•83,000 square feet of gaming space housing approximately 2,150 VLTs, including a 3,200 square foot outdoor gaming patio;•Six full service bars which include the 120 seat lounge atmosphere of the Veil Bar which offers live entertainment three nights a
week, the High Limit Bar, a sports bar with eight big screen TVs and state of the art audio, as well as supporting bars within our racing operations facilities;•Live standard bred harness horse racing conducted from May through mid-September with barns, paddock and related facilities for the
horses, drivers and trainers, that can accommodate over 2,600 patrons for live racing as well as a Summer Concert Series, featuring national acts;•On-site pari-mutuel wagering and thoroughbred, harness and greyhound racing simulcast from other prominent tracks, as well as wagering
on Scioto Downs' races at over 800 sites to which the races are simulcast; and•Surface parking for approximately 3,500 vehicles.

Scioto
Downs dining venues include the following:

•The Grove Buffet, with a seating capacity of 273, features a variety of cuisines
including American, Italian, Chinese, Mexican, a pizza station, salad and dessert bar;•The DASH Café, with a seating capacity of approximately 120, is a
24-hour-a-day café style restaurant featuring standard fare and grilled foods;•The Clubhouse, with a seating capacity of approximately 500, is our main racing dining
venue featuring steaks, local favorite dishes, salads and desserts;•Scioto Scoops, offers a variety of ice cream and milkshakes available throughout the
year;•The Penthouse, sandwich and snack bar catering to Simulcasting enthusiasts

Competition

The gaming industry includes land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American reservations
and other forms of legalized gaming. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Certain states have legalized
casino gaming and other states may legalize gaming in the future. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Native American reservations near our markets or changes to gaming laws in states
surrounding Nevada, Louisiana, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, or Ohio could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with gaming facilities in
other jurisdictions with dockside gaming facilities,
state sponsored lotteries, on-and-off track pari-mutuel wagering, card clubs, riverboat casinos and other forms of legalized gambling. In addition, various forms of internet gaming have been approved
in Nevada and New Jersey and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions
could result in significant additional competition.









Eldorado Shreveport.

In
June 2013, construction was completed on a new 30,000 square foot casino and 400-room hotel in Bossier City across the Red River from Eldorado Shreveport. The facility, which also
includes several restaurants and a 1,000-seat entertainment arena, received final approval from the Louisiana Gaming
Control Board and opened on June 15, 2013. The owner acquired the license for an existing casino site in Lake Charles, Louisiana and received the required regulatory approvals to move the
location to Bossier City. In December 2014, a new luxury, land-based casino with 1,600 slot machines, 72 gaming tables, a poker room, and a 740-room hotel with a ballroom, spa and 18-hole golf course,
opened in Lake Charles, Louisiana approximately 200 miles south of Eldorado Shreveport, but closer to the Houston, Texas market.

Eldorado Reno.Of the 31 casinos currently operating in the Reno market, we believe we compete principally with the six other
hotel-casinos that,
like Eldorado Reno and Silver Legacy, each generate at least $36 million in annual gaming revenues. At this time, we cannot predict the extent to which new and proposed projects will be
undertaken or the extent to which current hotel and/or casino space may be expanded. We expect that any additional rooms added in the Reno market will increase competition for visitor revenue. There
can be no assurance that any growth in Reno's current room base or gaming capacity will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.









We also compete with hotel-casinos located in the nearby Lake Tahoe region as well as those in other areas of Nevada, including Las Vegas. A substantial number of
customers travel to both Reno and the Lake Tahoe area during their visits. Consequently, we believe that our success is influenced to some degree by the success of the Lake Tahoe market. The number of
visitors increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 compared with the prior year, and while we do not anticipate a significant change in the popularity of either Reno or Lake Tahoe as
tourist destination areas in the foreseeable future, any decline could adversely affect our operations.

Since
visitors from California comprise a significant portion of our customer base, we also compete with Native American gaming operations in California. In total, the State of
California has signed and ratified compacts with 72 Native American tribes, and there are currently 60 Native American casinos operating in California, including casinos located in northern
California, which we consider to be a significant target market. These Native American tribes are allowed to operate slot machines, lottery games and banking and percentage games on Native American
lands. Although many existing Native American gaming facilities in northern California are modest compared to Eldorado Reno and Silver Legacy, a number of Native American tribes have established
large-scale gaming facilities in California and some Native American tribes have announced that they are in the process of expanding, developing, or are considering establishing, large-scale hotel and
gaming facilities in northern California. Off-reservation proposals for tribal gaming in northern California continue to face resistance at the federal and local levels.

Under
their current compacts, most Native American tribes in California may operate up to 2,000 slot machines, and up to two gaming facilities may be operated on any one reservation.
However, under action taken by the National Indian Gaming Commission, gaming devices similar in appearance to slot machines, but which are deemed to be technological enhancements to bingo style
gaming, are not subject to such limits and may be used by tribes without state permission. The number of slot machines the tribes are allowed to operate may increase as a result of any new or amended
compacts the tribes may enter into with the State of California that receive the requisite approvals, such as has been the case with respect to a number of new or amended compacts which have been
executed and approved.

Management
believes the Reno market draws over 50% of its visitors from California. As northern California Native American gaming operations have expanded, we believe the increasing
competition generated by these gaming operations has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, principally drive-in, day-trip visitor traffic from our main feeder markets in northern
California. A new gaming facility located in Sonoma County, California opened on November 5, 2013 with 3,000 slot machines, 144 table games, multiple dining options and a 10,000 square foot
events center. In addition to gaming on Native American-owned land, California allows other non-casino style gaming, including pari-mutuel wagering, a state sponsored lottery, card clubs, bingo and
off-track betting.

MTR Gaming Properties.Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs primarily compete with gaming facilities located in West
Virginia, Ohio and
Pennsylvania, including, to a certain extent, each other, and gaming locations located in neighboring states including New York, Indiana and Michigan. In particular, Mountaineer (and to a lesser
extent Presque Isle Downs) competes with other gaming facilities located in Pennsylvania, including The Rivers Casino located in downtown Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and The Meadows Racetrack and Casino
located in Washington, Pennsylvania, approximately 50 miles southeast of Mountaineer. An additional license has been granted for a casino to be located in Lawrence County Pennsylvania,
approximately 45 miles from Mountaineer and 90 miles from Presque Isle Downs, which would result in further competition for both of those properties. Further, gaming facilities in Ohio
that have recently commenced operations, including the Horseshoe Casino Cleveland, Hollywood Casino Columbus, ThistleDown Racino, Northfield Park and Beulah Park, present significant competition for
Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs.









Mountaineer
competes with smaller gaming operations conducted in local bars and fraternal organizations. West Virginia law permits limited video lottery machines ("LVLs") in local bars
and fraternal organizations. The West Virginia Lottery Commission authorizes up to 7,500 slot machines in these facilities throughout West Virginia. No more than five slot machines are allowed in each
establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, and no more than ten slot machines are allowed in each licensed fraternal organization. As of December 31, 2014, there were a total of
approximately 700 LVL's in bars and fraternal organizations in Hancock county, West Virginia (where Mountaineer is located) and the two neighboring counties (Brooke and Ohio counties).
Although the bars and fraternal
organizations housing these machines lack poker and table gaming, as well as the amenities and ambiance of our Mountaineer facility, they do compete with Mountaineer, particularly for the local
patronage.

While
there are three other tracks and one resort in West Virginia that offer slot machine and table gaming, only one, Wheeling Island Casino, lies within Mountaineer's primary market in
Wheeling, West Virginia. Wheeling Island Casino currently operates approximately 1,400 slot machines, nine poker tables, and 24 casino table games.

Scioto
Downs has also competed with smaller gaming operations in Ohio commonly referred to as Internet/sweepstakes cafes. These establishments offer services including internet time and
computer access, in addition to offering games such as poker and games that operate like slot machines. In March 2013, the Ohio General Assembly passed legislation which effectively bans the Internet
cafes by defining use of the computers in these facilities as illegal gambling. Efforts have been underway to enforce the closure of the internet cafes.

Mountaineer's,
and to a lesser extent Presque Isle Downs', racing and pari-mutuel operations compete directly for wagering dollars with racing and pari-mutuel operations at a variety of
other horse and greyhound racetracks that conduct pari-mutuel gaming, including Wheeling Island Casino, in Wheeling, West Virginia; ThistleDown and Northfield Park, in Cleveland, Ohio; Beulah Park, in
Austintown Ohio, and The Meadows Racetrack & Casino, in Washington, Pennsylvania. Wheeling Island Casino conducts pari-mutuel greyhound racing, simulcasting and casino gaming. Both ThistleDown
and Northfield Park conduct pari-mutuel horse racing, with video lottery gaming which commenced in 2013. Beulah Park was relocated from Columbus, Ohio to Austintown, Ohio in 2014 and conducts
pari-mutuel wagering, simulcasting and video lottery gaming. The Meadows Racetrack & Casino conducts live harness racing, simulcasting and casino gaming. Mountaineer (and to a lesser extent,
Presque Isle Downs) also will compete with Valley View Downs in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, if it is constructed and opened. Since commencing export simulcasting in August 2000, Mountaineer
competes with racetracks across the country to have its signal carried by off-track wagering parlors. Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs also competes for wagering dollars with off-track
wagering facilities in Ohio and Pennsylvania, and competes with other racetracks for participation by quality racehorses.

All
of our gaming operations also compete to a lesser extent with operations in other locations, including Native American lands, and with other forms of legalized gaming in the United
States, including state-sponsored lotteries, on- and off-track wagering, high-stakes bingo, card parlors, and the emergence of Internet gaming, including proposals at the state and federal levels that
would legalize various forms of internet gaming. In addition, casinos in Canada have likewise recently begun advertising and increasing promotional activities in our target markets.

General.All of our gaming operations also compete to a lesser extent with operations in other locations, including Native American
lands, and with
other forms of legalized gaming in the United States, including state-sponsored lotteries, on- and off-track wagering, high-stakes bingo, card parlors, and the
emergence of Internet gaming, including proposals at the state and federal levels that would legalize various forms of internet gaming. In addition, casinos in Canada have likewise recently begun









advertising
and increasing promotional activities in our target markets. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—We face
substantial competition in the hotel and casino industry and expect that such competition will continue" which is included elsewhere in this report.

Governmental Gaming Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. We are subject to extensive regulation under laws, rules and supervisory procedures primarily in the jurisdictions where our facilities are located or docked. These laws, rules and
regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and characters of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. If additional gaming
regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various
proposals have been introduced in legislatures of jurisdictions in which we have operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming
industry and us. We do not know whether or when such legislation will be enacted. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and
state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. Any material increase in these taxes or fees could adversely affect us.

Some
jurisdictions, including those in which we are licensed, empower their regulators to investigate participation by licensees in gaming outside their jurisdiction and require access
to periodic reports respecting those gaming activities. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.

Under
provisions of gaming laws in jurisdictions in which we have operations, and under our organizational documents, certain of our securities are subject to restriction on ownership
which may be imposed by specified governmental authorities. The restrictions may require a holder of our securities to dispose of the securities or, if the holder refuses, or is unable, to dispose of
the securities, we may be required to repurchase the securities.

A
more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

Reporting and Record-Keeping Requirements

We are required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports and furnish any other information about us and our
subsidiaries which gaming authorities may require. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger which may be examined by gaming authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an
agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to gaming authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record
holder unsuitable. Gaming authorities may, and in certain jurisdictions do, require certificates for our securities to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to specified gaming
laws.

Taxation

Gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and
such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and
officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws
or in the administration of such laws.









Internal Revenue Service Regulations

The Internal Revenue Service requires operators of casinos located in the United States to file information returns for U.S. citizens,
including names and addresses of winners, for keno, bingo and slot machine winnings in excess of stipulated amounts. The Internal Revenue Service also requires operators to withhold taxes on some
keno, bingo and slot machine winnings of nonresident aliens. We are unable to predict the extent to which these requirements, if extended, might impede or otherwise adversely affect operations of,
and/or income from, the other games.

Regulations
adopted by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Treasury Department ("FINCEN") and the Nevada Gaming Authorities require the reporting of currency transactions in
excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. This reporting obligation began in May 1985 and may have resulted in the
loss of gaming revenues to jurisdictions outside the United States which are exempt from the ambit of these regulations. In addition to currency transaction reporting requirements, suspicious
financial activity is also required to be reported to FINCEN.

Other Laws and Regulations

Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and
regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, food service, smoking, environmental matters, employees and employment practices, currency
transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations
could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

The
sale of alcoholic beverages is subject to licensing, control and regulation by applicable local regulatory agencies. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies
involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license, and any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a material adverse effect upon our operations.

Intellectual Property

We use a variety of trade names, service marks, trademarks, patents and copyrights in our operations and believe that we have all the
licenses necessary to conduct our continuing operations. We have registered several service marks, trademarks, patents and copyrights with the United States Patent and Trademark Office or otherwise
acquired the licenses to use those which are material to conduct our business. We also own patents relating to unique casino games. We file copyright applications to protect our creative artworks,
which are often featured in property branding, as well as our distinctive website content.

Seasonality

Casino, hotel and racing operations in our markets are subject to seasonal variation. Winter conditions can frequently adversely affect
transportation routes to each of our properties and also may cause cancellations of live horse racing at Mountaineer, Scioto Downs and Presque Isle Downs. As a result, unfavorable seasonal conditions
could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to
the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous









Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 7,100 employees, including Silver Legacy. As of such date, we have four collective
bargaining agreements covering approximately 500 employees.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

This report includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our strategies, objectives and plans for future development or
acquisitions of properties or operations, as well as expectations, future operating results and other information that is not historical information. When used in this report, the terms or phrases
such as "anticipates," "believes," "projects," "plans," "intends," "expects," "might," "may," "estimates," "could," "should," "would," "will likely continue," and variations of such
words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we assume no duty to update forward-looking
statements. Although our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and with what we believe is a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that these expectations, beliefs
and projections will be realized. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements which
are included elsewhere in this report. Other factors beyond those listed below could also adversely affect us. Such risks, uncertainties and other important factors include, but are not limited
to:

•Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to
service such obligations;•We may not be able to refinance our substantial outstanding indebtedness on terms that are satisfactory to us, or at all;•Restrictions and limitations in agreements governing our debt could significantly affect our ability to operate our business and our
liquidity;•Our facilities operate in very competitive environments and we face increasing competition;









•Our dependence on our Nevada, Louisiana, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio casinos for substantially all of our revenues and cash
flows;•Our operations are particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and are affected by changes in general
economic and market conditions;•Our gaming operations are highly regulated by governmental authorities and the cost of complying or the impact of failing to comply
with such regulations;•The inability to realize cost savings or revenues or to implement integration plans and other consequences associated with mergers and
acquisitions, including the recent merger with MTR Gaming;•Increases in gaming taxes and fees in jurisdictions in which we operate;•Risks relating to pending claims or future claims that may be brought against us;•Changes in interest rates and capital and credit markets;•Our ability to comply with certain covenants in our debt documents;•The effect of disruptions to our information technology and other systems and infrastructure;•Construction factors relating to maintenance and expansion of operations;•Our ability to attract and retain customers;•Weather or road conditions limiting access to our properties;•The effect of war, terrorist activity, natural disasters and other catastrophic events;•The intense competition to attract and retain management and key employees in the gaming industry; and•Other factors set forth under "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

In
light of these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report might not occur. These forward-looking statements speak only as of
the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, even if subsequently made available on our website or otherwise, and we do not intend to update publicly any forward-looking statement to reflect
events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made, except as may be required by law.

You
should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other
confidential business information. Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the
extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
"SEC"). You may read and copy, at prescribed rates, any document we have filed at the SEC's public reference room in Washington, D.C. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 (1-800-732-0330) for further
information on the public reference room. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding registrants that file electronically
with the SEC (http://www.sec.gov). You also may read and









copy
reports and other information filed by us at the office of The NASDAQ Stock Market, One Liberty Plaza, 165 Broadway, New York, NY 10006.

We
make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports, available free of
charge on our corporate website (www.eldoradoresorts.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
In addition, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are available on our website. We
will provide reasonable quantities of electronic or paper copies of filings
free of charge upon request. In addition, we will provide a copy of the above referenced charters to stockholders upon request.

References
in this document to our website address do not incorporate by reference the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.











