ITEMS 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation, exploration and production of oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment, natural gas development, exploitation, exploration and production, in the continental United States. We have offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to enhance shareholder value through the commodity price cycles by maintaining our disciplined approach to returns-focused capital allocation. While we operate in a cyclical industry, driven by the volatility of commodity prices, we believe that focusing on the following key components of our business strategy positions us to succeed on creating shareholder value through the commodity price cycles.

Focus on financial returns.Our goal is to generate financial returns that exceed our cost of capital by focusing on disciplined capital investment and maintaining a low cost structure. In2019, our return on capital employed (non-GAAP) was22.2 percent, an increase from15.9 percentin2018. Commodity prices play a critical role in our capital allocation decisions and have a significant impact on our financial returns.

Demonstrate continued cost control.Underpinning our financial returns is our continued focus on cost control, which resulted in an 18 percent reduction in operating expenses per unit in2019relative to2018. We believe maintaining a low cost structure provides us with a competitive advantage, especially in a low natural gas price environment. We continue to assess additional opportunities to reduce our operating expenses per unit over time.

Maintain financial strength.We believe that maintaining a strong balance sheet with significant financial flexibility is imperative in a cyclical industry that is exposed to commodity price volatility. In recent years, we have reduced our absolute debt levels, and we anticipate retiring the current portion of our debt at maturity in2020. We improved our total debt to total capitalization ratio from 37.0 percent at year-end2018to 36.2 percent at year-end2019. Additionally, we ended2019with strong liquidity resulting from$200.2 millionof cash and cash equivalents and$1.5 billionof unused commitments on our revolving credit facility.

Generate positive free cash flow.We believe generating positive free cash flow is paramount to creating shareholder value. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation allows us to adjust our capital spending and activity levels in response to commodity prices in order to maximize positive free cash flow through the price cycles. Our free cash flow is used for returning capital to shareholders, reducing debt levels and enhancing liquidity. In2019, we generated $1.4 billion in cash flow from operations (GAAP) and$563.1 millionof free cash flow (non-GAAP), representing our fourth consecutive year of positive free cash flow generation.

Return capital to shareholders.We currently target returning at least 50 percent of our free cash flow to shareholders annually through dividends and share repurchases. In2019, we returned $665.4 million of capital to shareholders, representing 118 percent of our free cash flow for the year. We increased our dividend twice during 2019 and have increased our dividend five times since 2017. Since reinstating our share repurchase program in 2017, we have reduced our shares outstanding by over 14 percent. We plan to continue to prioritize returning capital to shareholders through all commodity price cycles.

Increase our proved reserve base.In2019, we increased our year-end proved reserves by 11 percent at an all-sources finding and development cost (non-GAAP) of $0.36 per Mcfe. We also replaced 250 percent of our production for the year. We intend to continue to increase our proved reserves through our disciplined investment in the development of our Marcellus Shale asset assuming the commodity price environment provides for economic returns for our shareholders.

Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a discussion and calculation of return on capital employed, free cash flow and finding and development cost, which are non-GAAP financial measures.

2020OUTLOOK

Our2020capital program is expected to be approximately$575.0 million, a27 percentreduction from our 2019 capital program of$783.3 million. We reduced our planned capital program as a result of the lower natural gas price environment. We expect to fund these expenditures with our operating cash flow and, if required, cash on hand.









In2020, our capital program will focus on the Marcellus Shale, where we expectto drill, complete and place on production 60 to 70 net wells. We allocate our planned program for capital expenditures based on market conditions, return on capital and free cash flow expectations and availability of services and human resources. We will continue to assess the natural gas price environment and may adjust our capital expenditures accordingly.

