ITEMS 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation and exploration of oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment, natural gas and oil development, exploitation, exploration and production, in the continental United States. We have offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to enhance shareholder value over the long-term through consistent growth in production and reserves. We believe this is attainable, even in the current commodity price environment, by employing a combination of disciplined management and remaining focused on our core asset base, which offers a strategic advantage. Key components of our business strategy include:

Disciplined Capital Spending Focused on Organic Projects.We allocate our capital program based on economic projects that we expect will enable us to maximize our production and reserve growth. Our capital program is based on the expectation of being fully funded through operating cash flows, with any shortfalls funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. While we consider various growth opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, our primary focus is organic growth through drilling our core areas of operation where we believe we can exploit our extensive inventory of low-cost, repeatable drilling opportunities. The price we expect to receive for our production is a critical factor in the capital investments we make in order to develop our properties.

Low Cost Structure.Our operations are focused on select unconventional plays with significant resource potential that allow us to add and produce reserves at a low cost. We have developed sizable, contiguous acreage positions in our core operating areas and believe the concentration of our assets allows us to further reduce costs through economies of scale. We continue to optimize drilling and completion efficiencies through the use of multi-well pad drilling in our core operating areas, resulting in additional cost savings. Furthermore, since we operate in a limited number of geographic areas, we believe we can leverage our technical expertise in these areas to achieve further cost reductions through operational efficiencies. We also operate a majority of our properties, which allows us to more effectively manage all elements of our cost structure.

Conservative Financial Position and Financial Flexibility.We believe the prudent management of our balance sheet and the active management of commodity price risk allows us the financial flexibility to continue to provide consistent production and reserve growth over time, even in periods of depressed commodity prices. From time to time, we utilize derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk and to provide a level of cash flow predictability. In the event we experience a lower than anticipated commodity price environment, we believe that we have the flexibility to supplement the funding of our capital program with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and select asset sales.

Pursue Strategic Marketing and Transportation Agreements to Maximize Cash Flows and Diversify Risk.We continue to pursue opportunities to maximize our cash flows and diversify our market and customer risk by securing strategic long-term firm transportation and sales contracts in close proximity to our core area of operations.

2016OUTLOOK

Our2016drilling program includes approximately$325.0 millionin capital expenditures and approximately$150.0 millionin expected contributions to our equity method investments. We expect to fund these expenditures with operating cash flows and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. SeeNote 4of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our equity method investments in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution) and Meade Pipeline Co LLC (Meade).

We plan to drill approximately30gross wells (30.0net) in2016compared to142gross wells (132.8net) drilled in2015. We allocate our planned capital program among our various operating areas based on return expectations, availability of services and human resources. We will continue to assess the natural gas and crude oil price environment along with our liquidity position and may increase or decrease our capital expenditures accordingly.

As a result of sustained lower natural gas and crude oil prices expected during2016, we reduced our budgeted capital expenditures compared to 2015. In addition, we plan to operate an average of approximately 1.3 rigs in2016, a decrease from an average of approximately 5.4 rigs in2015. During2015, we strategically curtailed production levels in the Marcellus Shale due to lower price realizations in the region, and we expect to continue to strategically curtail production during2016given the current commodity price environment.



