ITEMS 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation and exploration of oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment, natural gas and oil development, exploitation, exploration and production, in the continental United States. We have regional offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to enhance shareholder value over the long-term through consistent growth in cash flows, earnings, production and reserves. We believe this is attainable through a combination of disciplined management and our core asset base that offers a strategic advantage for continued growth. Key components of our business strategy include:

Disciplined Capital Spending Focused on Organic Projects.We allocate our capital program based on projects that we expect will enable us to maximize our production and reserve growth at attractive returns. Our capital program is based on the expectation of being fully funded through operating cash flows, with any shortfalls funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. While we consider various growth opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, our primary focus is organic growth through drilling our core areas of operation where we believe we can exploit our extensive inventory of low-cost, repeatable drilling opportunities.

Low Cost Structure.Our operations are focused on select unconventional plays with significant resource potential that allow us to add and produce reserves at a low cost. We have developed sizable, contiguous acreage positions in these core operating areas and believe the concentration of our assets allows us to further reduce costs through economies of scale. We continue to optimize drilling and completion efficiencies through the use of multi-well pad drilling in our core operating areas, resulting in additional cost savings. Furthermore, since we operate in a limited number of geographic areas, we believe we can leverage our technical expertise in these areas to achieve further cost reductions through operational efficiencies. We also operate a majority of our properties, which allows us to more effectively manage all elements of our cost structure.

Conservative Financial Position and Financial Flexibility.We believe the prudent management of our balance sheet and the active management of commodity price risk allows us the financial flexibility to continue to provide consistent production and reserve growth over time, even in periods of depressed commodity prices. We utilize derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk and to provide a level of cash flow predictability. In the event we experience a lower than anticipated commodity price environment, we believe that we have the flexibility to supplement the funding of our capital program with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and select asset sales.

Expand our Unconventional Resource Initiatives.We will continue to evaluate opportunities that generate value and contribute to our growth initiatives, including new exploration concepts and ideas that, if successful, can match the size, scope and rate of returns of our existing core assets. We will also consider the use of joint venture arrangements to achieve these objectives.

2015OUTLOOK

In2015, we plan to spend approximately$900.0 millionon capital and exploration activities. We plan to drill approximately125gross wells (or115.0net), focusing our capital program in the Marcellus Shale in northeast Pennsylvania and the Eagle Ford Shale in south Texas. We expect to allocate approximately 59% of our2015capital program to the Marcellus Shale, approximately 39% to our oil-focused play in the Eagle Ford Shale and the remaining 2% to other emerging plays and non-drilling expenditures. Due to the weak commodity price environment, our overall capital and exploration spending in 2015 is expected to be lower than our expenditures in 2014.

Incremental to our capital and exploration expenditures program, we also expect to contribute approximately$69.8 millionto our equity method investments to fund costs associated with the development and construction of two natural gas pipelines in northeast Pennsylvania. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our equity method investments in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution) and Meade Pipeline Co LLC (Meade).






