ITEMS 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation and exploration of oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment, natural gas and oil development, exploitation, exploration and production, in the continental United States. We have offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to enhance shareholder value over the long-term through consistent growth in production and reserves, even in the current commodity price environment. We believe this is attainable by employing disciplined management of our balance sheet and our operations and remaining focused on our core asset base, which offers a strategic advantage. Key components of our business strategy include:

Disciplined Capital Spending Focused on Organic Projects.We allocate our capital program to economic projects expected to generate the highest returns, maximize our production levels and add to our reserve growth. Our capital program is developed with the expectation of being fully funded through operating cash flows, with any shortfalls funded primarily by cash on hand and/or borrowings under our revolving credit facility. While we consider various growth opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, our primary focus is organic growth through drilling our core areas of operation where we believe we can exploit our extensive inventory of low-cost, repeatable drilling opportunities. The price we expect to receive for our production is a critical factor in the capital investments we make in order to achieve the greatest economic benefit from the development our properties.

Low Cost Structure.Our operations are focused on select unconventional plays with significant resource potential that allow us to add and produce reserves at a low cost. We have developed sizable, contiguous acreage positions in our core operating areas and believe the concentration of our assets allows us to further reduce costs through economies of scale. We continue to optimize drilling and completion efficiencies using multi-well pad drilling, increasing frac stages and drilling longer lateral wells in our core operating areas, resulting in additional cost savings. Furthermore, since we operate in a limited number of geographic areas, we believe we can leverage our technical expertise in these areas to achieve further cost reductions through operational efficiencies. We also operate a majority of our properties, which allows us to more effectively manage all elements of our cost structure.

Conservative Financial Position and Financial Flexibility.We believe the prudent management of our balance sheet and the active management of commodity price risk allows us the financial flexibility to provide continued production and reserve growth over time, even in periods of depressed commodity prices. We utilize derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk and to provide a level of cash flow predictability. In the event we experience a lower than anticipated commodity price environment, we believe that we have the flexibility to supplement the funding of our capital program with cash on hand, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, select asset sales, access to capital markets or, depending on the specific circumstances, reductions to our overall level of activity.

Pursue Strategic Marketing and Transportation Agreements to Maximize Cash Flows and Diversify Risk.We continue to pursue opportunities to maximize our cash flows and diversify our market and customer risk by securing strategic long-term firm transportation and sales contracts in close proximity to our core area of operations.

2017OUTLOOK

Our2017drilling program includes approximately$650.0 millionin capital expenditures and approximately$70.0 millionin expected contributions to our equity method investments. We expect to fund these expenditures with existing cash, operating cash flow and, if required, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. SeeNote 4of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our equity method investments in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution) and Meade Pipeline Co LLC (Meade).

In2017, we plan to drill95gross wells (90.0net) and complete95gross wells (90.0net), of which51gross wells (45.0net) were drilled but uncompleted in prior years. We allocate our planned program for capital expenditures among our various operating areas based on market conditions, return expectations, availability of services and human resources. We will continue to assess the natural gas and crude oil price environment along with our liquidity position and may increase or decrease our capital expenditures accordingly.









As a result of higher expected natural gas and crude oil prices, we increased our budgeted capital expenditures compared to2016. We plan to operate an average of approximately 3.0 rigs in2017, an increase from an average of approximately 1.4 rigs in2016. During2016, we strategically curtailed production levels in the Marcellus Shale due to lower price realizations in the region; however, we expect to increase Marcellus Shale production during2017.