ITEMS 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation and exploration of
oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment,
natural gas and oil development, exploitation and exploration, exclusively in the continental United States. We have regional offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to enhance shareholder value over the long-term through consistent growth in cash flows, earnings,
production and reserves. We believe this is attainable through a combination of disciplined management and our core asset base that offers a strategic advantage for continued growth. Key components of
our business strategy include:

Disciplined Capital Spending Focused on High-Return, Organic Projects.We allocate our capital program based on projects that we expect
will enable us to maximize our production and reserve growth at attractive returns. Our capital program is based on the expectation of being fully funded through operating cash flows. While we
consider various growth opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, our primary focus is organic growth through drilling our core areas of operation where we believe we can exploit our extensive
inventory of low-cost, high-return repeatable drilling opportunities.

Low Cost Structure.Our operations are focused on select unconventional plays with significant resource potential that allow us to add
and produce
reserves at a low cost. We have developed sizable, contiguous acreage positions in these core operating areas and believe the concentration of our assets allows us to further reduce costs through
economies of scale. Furthermore, since we operate in a limited number of geographic areas, we believe we can leverage our technical expertise in these areas to achieve further cost reductions through
operational efficiencies. We also operate a majority of our properties, which allows us to more effectively manage all elements of our cost structure.

Conservative Financial Position and Financial Flexibility.We believe the prudent management of our balance sheet and the active
management of
commodity price risk allows us the financial flexibility to continue to provide consistent production and reserve growth over time, even in periods of depressed commodity prices. We utilize derivative
contracts to manage commodity price risk and to provide a level of cash flow predictability. In the event we experience a lower than anticipated commodity price environment, we believe that we have
the flexibility to supplement the funding of our capital program with asset sales, joint ventures and borrowings under our credit facility.

Expand our Unconventional Resource Initiatives Through Value Generating Opportunities.We will continue to evaluate opportunities that
generate value
and contribute to our growth initiatives, including
potential strategic sales of assets that no longer fit in our current portfolio and the use of various joint venture arrangements to achieve our objectives. We intend to reinvest the proceeds from
these activities in our core unconventional assets.

2013 OUTLOOK

In 2013, we plan to spend between approximately $950.0 million and $1.0 billion on capital and exploration activities. We
plan to drill approximately 170 to 180 gross wells (or 130 to 145 net), focusing our capital program in the Marcellus Shale in northeast Pennsylvania, the Eagle Ford and Pearsall Shale in south Texas
and the Marmaton oil play in Oklahoma. We expect to allocate approximately 65% of our 2013 capital program to the Marcellus Shale, approximately 30% to our









liquids-focused
plays in south Texas and Oklahoma and the remaining 5% to other emerging plays and non-drilling expenditures. In 2013, we also expect to contribute approximately
$12.0 million to Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution) to fund costs associated with the development and construction of a pipeline in northeast Pennsylvania, which is
incremental to our capital and exploration expenditures. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our investment in Constitution.