Item 1. Business

Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PROPOSED MERGER WITH NSTAR

On October 18, 2010, we and NSTAR announced that each company’s Board of Trustees unanimously approved a Merger Agreement (the merger agreement) to combine the two companies.  The transaction was structured as a merger of equals in a tax-free exchange.  Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, at closing, NSTAR will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of NU.  The post-transaction company will provide electric and natural gas energy delivery service to nearly 3.5 million electric and natural gas customers through six regulated electric and natural gas utilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, representing over half of all the customers in New England.

Under the terms of the merger agreement, NSTAR shareholders would receive 1.312 NU common shares for each common share of NSTAR that they own (the "exchange ratio").  The exchange ratio was structured to result in a no premium merger and is based on the average closing share price of each company's common shares for the 20 trading days preceding the announcement.  Following completion of the merger, common shares of the post-transaction company will be owned approximately 56 percent by NU shareholders and approximately 44 percent by former NSTAR shareholders.  We anticipate that we will issue approximately 137 million common shares to the NSTAR shareholders as a result of the merger.  Following the closing of the merger, our next quarterly dividend per common share will be increased to an amount that is equivalent to NSTAR’s last quarterly dividend per common share paid prior to the closing, divided by 
the exchange ratio.  Based on the last quarterly dividend paid by NSTAR of $0.425 per share, and assuming there are no changes to such dividend prior to the closing of the merger, that would result in NU’s quarterly dividend being increased by approximately 18 percent to approximately $0.325 per share, or approximately $1.30 per share on an annualized basis as compared to NU's current annualized dividend of $1.10 per share.  NU filed its joint proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC on January 5, 2011 and scheduled a special meeting of shareholders for March 4, 2011, at which shareholders will vote on whether to approve the merger.

Completion of the merger is subject to various customary conditions, including approval by holders of two-thirds of the outstanding common shares of each company and receipt of all required regulatory approvals, including those of the Massachusetts DPU, the FERC and the NRC.  We received approval from the FCC on January 4, 2011, and on February 10, 2011, the applicable Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period expired.  Several intervening parties have applied to participate in the regulatory review of the merger and have raised various issues that they believe the regulatory agencies should examine in the course of the proceedings.

In November 2010, the DPUC issued a draft decision stating it lacked jurisdiction over the merger.  In December 2010, the Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel, supported by the Connecticut Attorney General, petitioned the DPUC to reconsider its draft decision.  In January 2011, the DPUC issued an Administrative Order stating that it plans to hold a hearing to determine if it has jurisdiction over the merger.  Oral arguments surrounding the draft decision were held in February 2011.  The DPUC plans to hold an informational hearing at a date to be determined.  In addition, legislation proposing to give the DPUC jurisdiction over the merger may be introduced in the Connecticut legislature.

THE COMPANY

NU, headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by FERC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005.  We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly-owned utility subsidiaries:

●

The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut;

●

Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire and continues to own generation assets used to serve customers;

●

Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of western Massachusetts; and

●

Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut.

NU also owns certain unregulated businesses through its wholly-owned subsidiary, NU Enterprises.  As of December 31, 2010, NU Enterprises’ business consisted of (i) Select Energy’s few remaining energy wholesale marketing contracts, which are being wound down, and (ii) NU Enterprises’ electrical contracting business.


Although NU, CL&P, PSNH and WMECO each report their financial results separately, we also include information in this report on a segment, or line-of-business, basis - the distribution segment (which also includes the generation businesses of PSNH and WMECO and our natural gas distribution business) and the transmission segment.  Our Regulated companies accounted for approximately 99 percent of our total earnings of $387.9 million for 2010, with electric distribution representing approximately 45 percent, natural gas distribution representing approximately 8 percent and electric transmission representing approximately 46 percent of consolidated earnings.  The remaining 1 percent of our 2010 earnings comes from our competitive businesses.

REGULATED ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION

General

NU’s electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO, which are primarily engaged in the distribution of electricity in Connecticut, New Hampshire and western Massachusetts, respectively, plus PSNH’s regulated electric generation business and WMECO’s solar generation.  The following table shows the sources of 2010 electric franchise retail revenues for NU’s electric distribution companies, collectively, based on categories of customers:

A summary of changes in the Regulated companies’ retail electric sales (GWh) for 2010 as compared to 2009 on an actual and weather normalized basis (using a 30-year average) is as follows:

Total retail electric sales for all three electric companies were higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to warmer than normal weather in the summer of 2010 and colder than normal weather in December 2010.  Residential sales benefitted the most from the weather in 2010 and were higher for all three electric companies in 2010 compared to 2009.

On a weather normalized basis, retail sales for all three electric companies were lower in 2010 compared to 2009. We believe the decrease was due in part to increased conservation efforts by our customers and the continuing effects of the weak economy.

THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY - DISTRIBUTION

CL&P’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2010, CL&P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.2 million customers in 149 cities and towns in Connecticut.  CL&P does not own any electric generation facilities.  In 2010, CL&P had contracts to purchase the electric output from eighteen IPP generators.  The term of two of these contracts ended in 2010.  In 2011 the sixteen remaining generators are anticipated to provide approximately two million MWh per year through March 2015, with purchase quantities dropping significantly from 2015 through 2024, when the term of the last IPP contract ends.  CL&P sells the output of these contracts into the ISO New England market, crediting customer energy charges with the proceeds.  CL&
;P has entered into eleven contracts with renewable energy generators under a state program known as Project 150, and UI has entered into 2 other similar contracts under Project 150.  CL&P and UI will share the costs and benefits of these contracts on an 80 percent and 20 percent basis, respectively.  This cost sharing split is independent of the specific utility that is the counterparty to the contract.  It is currently projected that the first of these renewable energy projects will commence commercial operation in 2011.


The following table shows the sources of 2010 electric franchise retail revenues for CL&P based on categories of customers:

Rates

CL&P is subject to regulation by the Connecticut DPUC, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over its rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.  CL&P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  CL&P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewables, CTA, SBC and other charges that are assessed on all customers.

The CTA is a charge assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring as well as various IPP contracts.  The SBC recovers costs associated with various hardship and low income programs as well as payments to municipalities to compensate them for losses in property tax revenue due to decreases in the value of electric generating facilities resulting directly from electric industry restructuring.  The CTA and SBC are annually reconciled to actual costs incurred, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

Under state law, all of CL&P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL&P remains their electric distribution company.  Under "Standard Service" rates for customers with less than 500 KW of demand and "Supplier of Last Resort Service" rates for customers with 500 KW of demand or greater, CL&P purchases power for those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier and passes the cost to such customers through a combined  GSC and FMCC on customers' bills.  The combined GSC and FMCC charges for both types of service recover all of the costs of procuring energy from CL&P's wholesale suppliers and are adjusted periodically and reconciled semi-annually in accordance with the directives of the DPUC.

Although more CL&P customers chose competitive energy suppliers in 2010 than in 2009, CL&P continues to supply approximately 40 percent of its customer load at Standard Service or Supplier of Last Resort Service rates while the other 60 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on CL&P’s delivery business or its operating income.

Distribution Rates

: On June 30, 2010, the DPUC issued a final order in CL&P’s most recent retail rate case approving annualized distribution rate increases of $63.4 million effective July 1, 2010 and an incremental $38.5 million effective July 1, 2011.  The 2010 increase was deferred from customer bills until January 1, 2011 to coincide with the decline in revenue requirements associated with the final payment of CL&P’s RRBs. In its decision, the DPUC also maintained CL&P’s authorized distribution segment regulatory ROE of 9.4 percent.  In 2010, CL&P earned a distribution segment regulatory ROE of 7.9 percent, compared to 7.3 percent in 2009, and expects to earn a distribution segment regulatory ROE of approximately 9 percent in 2011.

In May 2010, the Connecticut Legislature approved a state budget for the 2010-2011 fiscal year, which calls for the issuance by the state of Connecticut of up to $760 million of economic recovery revenue bonds (ERRBs) that would be amortized over eight years.  These bonds will be repaid through a charge on the bills of customers of CL&P and other Connecticut electric distribution companies.  For CL&P, the revenue to pay interest and principal on the bonds would come from a continuation of a portion of its CTA, which would have otherwise ended by December 31, 2010 with the final payment of the principal and interest on its RRBs, and the diversion of about one-third of the annual funding for C&LM programs beginning in April 2012.  A lawsuit pending against the DPUC to prevent the issuance of the ERRBs is pending and several bills seeking to modify or prevent the issuance have been proposed before the state l
egislature.

On March 31, 2010, CL&P filed with the DPUC an AMI and dynamic pricing plan concluding that a full deployment of AMI meters accompanied by dynamic pricing options for all CL&P customers would be cost beneficial under a set of reasonable assumptions, identified as the "base case scenario."  Under the base case scenario, capital expenditures associated with the installation of the meters are estimated at $296 million.  CL&P has proposed beginning installation of meters in late 2012 and finishing in 2016.

CL&P has a transmission adjustment clause as part of its retail distribution rates, which reconciles on a semi-annual basis the transmission revenues billed to customers against the transmission costs of acquiring such services, thereby recovering all of its transmission expenses on a timely basis.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, CL&P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy to serve its Standard Service and Supplier of Last Resort Service loads from a variety of competitive sources through periodic RFPs.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for Standard Service periodically for periods of up to three years to mitigate price volatility for its residential and small and medium load commercial and industrial customers.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for Supplier of Last Resort service for larger commercial and industrial


customers every three months.  Currently, CL&P has contracts in place with various suppliers for all of its Standard Service loads through 2011, 40 percent of expected load for 2012, and 10 percent of expected load for 2013.  CL&P’s contracts for its Supplier of Last Resort Service loads extend through the second quarter of 2011.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE - DISTRIBUTION

PSNH’s distribution business (which includes its generation business) consists primarily of the generation, purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2010, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 497,000 retail customers in 211 cities and towns in New Hampshire.  PSNH also owns and operates approximately 1,200 MW of primarily fossil-fueled electricity generation assets.  Included in those generation assets is its 50 MW wood-burning Northern Wood Power Project at its Schiller Station in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and approximately 70 MW of hydroelectric generation.  PSNH also has contracts with 18 IPPs, the output of which it either uses to serve its customer load or sells into the market.

PSNH is constructing its Clean Air Project, a sulfur dioxide and mercury scrubber at its Merrimack coal-fired generation station, which is currently expected to cost $430 million.  The project is scheduled for completion in mid-2012.  PSNH will recover all related costs through its ES rates described below.

The following table shows the sources of 2010 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

Rates

PSNH is subject to regulation by the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.

PSNH’s ES rate recovers its generation and purchased power costs from customers on a current basis and allows for an ROE of 9.81 percent on its generation investment.

Under New Hampshire law, the SCRC allows PSNH to recover its stranded costs, including expenses incurred under mandated power contracts and other long-term investments and obligations.  PSNH has financed a significant portion of its stranded costs through securitization by issuing RRBs secured by the right to recover these stranded costs from customers over time and recovers the costs of these bonds through the SCRC rate.

On an annual basis, PSNH files with the NHPUC an ES/SCRC reconciliation filing for the preceding year.  The difference between ES/SCRC revenues and ES/SCRC costs are included in the ES/SCRC rate calculations and refunded to/recovered from customers in the subsequent period approved by the NHPUC.

The TCAM allows PSNH to recover on a fully reconciling basis its transmission related costs.  The TCAM is adjusted July 1 of each year.

Distribution Rates

:  On June 28, 2010, the NHPUC approved a joint settlement of PSNH’s rate case that had commenced in 2009, allowing a net distribution rate increase of $45.5 million on an annualized basis to be effective July 1, 2010, and annualized distribution rate adjustments projected to be a decrease of $2.9 million and increases of $9.5 million and $11.1 million on July 1 of each of the three subsequent years, respectively.  PSNH agreed not to file a new distribution rate request that would be effective prior to July 1, 2015.  During the term of the settlement, PSNH can only propose changes to its permanent distribution rate level when its 12-month distribution ROE falls below 7 percent for two consecutive quarters or certain specified external events, such as major storms, occur.  If PSNH’s 12-month ROE rolling average is greater than 10 percent, anything over the 10 percent level will be all
ocated 75 percent to customers and 25 percent to PSNH.  The settlement also provided that the authorized regulatory ROE on distribution only plant will continue at the previously allowed level of 9.67 percent.  PSNH’s distribution segment regulatory ROE was 10.2 percent (including generation) in 2010, compared to 7.2 percent in 2009.  We expect PSNH’s distribution segment regulatory ROE will be approximately 9 percent in 2011.

PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers, with PSNH providing default energy service under its ES rate for those customers who do not elect to use a third party supplier.  Prior to 2009, PSNH experienced only a minimal amount of customer migration.  However, customer migration levels began to increase significantly in 2009 as energy costs decreased from their historic high levels and competitive energy suppliers with more pricing flexibility were able to offer electricity supply at lower prices than PSNH.  By the end of 2010, approximately 2 percent of all of PSNH’s customers (approximately 32 percent of load), mostly large commercial and industrial customers, had switched to competitive energy suppliers.  The increased level of migration has caused an increase in the ES rate, as fixed costs of PSNH’s generation assets must be spread over a smaller group of customers and lower sal
es


volume.  The customers that did not switch to a third party supplier, predominately residential and small commercial and industrial customers, are now paying a larger proportion of these fixed costs.

The NHPUC opened a proceeding in 2010 to consider the effect of customer migration on ES rates for customers, principally residential and small commercial and industrial customers, remaining on PSNH default energy service.  As part of this docket, the NHPUC stated its intention to explore the interplay of customer choice, migration issues and power procurement options for PSNH.

PSNH cannot predict if the upward pressure on ES rates will continue into the future, as future customer migration levels, which are dependent on market prices and supplier alternatives, are uncertain.  If future market prices once more exceed the average ES rate level, some or all of these customers on third party supply may migrate back to PSNH.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

During 2010, about 88 percent of PSNH’s load was met through its own generation, long-term power supply provided pursuant to orders of the NHPUC, and contracts with third parties.  The remaining 12 percent of PSNH's load was met by short-term (less than one year) purchases and spot purchases in the competitive New England wholesale power market.  PSNH expects to meet its load requirements in 2011 in a similar manner.

WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS ELECTRIC COMPANY - DISTRIBUTION

WMECO’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to residential, commercial and industrial customers.  At December 31, 2010, WMECO furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 206,000 retail customers in 59 cities and towns in the western third of Massachusetts.  Following electric industry restructuring in the 1990s, WMECO sold all of its generating facilities and now purchases its energy requirements from competitive suppliers.  In 2009, pursuant to the Massachusetts Green Communities Act, WMECO was authorized to install 6 MW of solar energy generation in its service territory.  In October 2010, WMECO completed construction of a 1.8 MW solar generation facility at a site in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, which began producing electricity in late 2010.  In January 2011, WMECO announced its plans to develop a second solar generation faci
lity at a site in Springfield, Massachusetts.  This facility will accommodate 17,000 solar panels, producing up to 4.2 MW of solar energy.  WMECO will sell all energy and other products from its solar generation facilities into the ISO New England market.

WMECO had a contract with one IPP generator in 2010, the output of which WMECO sold into the ISO New England market.  The term of this contract ended on December 31, 2010.

The following table shows the sources of 2010 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

Rates

WMECO is subject to regulation by the Massachusetts DPU, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.  WMECO's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  Massachusetts utilities are entitled under state law to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operation and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.

Under state law, WMECO's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while WMECO remains their distribution company.  WMECO purchases electric power from competitive suppliers for, and passes through the cost to, those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier (basic service).  Basic service charges are adjusted and reconciled on an annual basis.  Most of WMECO's residential and small commercial and industrial customers have continued to buy their power from WMECO at basic service rates.  A greater proportion of large commercial and industrial customers have opted for a competitive energy supplier.

WMECO continues to supply approximately 50 percent of its customer load at basic service rates while the other 50 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on WMECO’s delivery business or its operating income.

WMECO recovers certain costs through various tracking mechanisms in its retail rates, including transmission costs, pension costs and prudently incurred stranded costs (a portion of which have been financed through securitization by issuing RRBs) with periodic true-up adjustments.


Distribution Rates:

On January 31, 2011, the DPU issued a final decision in WMECO’s July 2010 rate application, granting a $16.8 million annualized rate increase in distribution revenues and an allowed ROE of 9.6 percent effective February 1, 2011.  The DPU also authorized a full decoupling mechanism, whereby actual revenue billed by WMECO would be reconciled with WMECO’s target revenue on an annual basis, WMECO’s request to recover balances of certain active hardship account balances and the recovery of certain storm costs over five years.  The DPU did not authorize rate recovery of a proposed $20 million average increase in WMECO’s capital spending plan. WMECO’s distribution segment regulatory ROE was 4.6 percent in 2010 compared to 8.4 percent in 2009.  We expect WMECO’s distribution segment regulatory ROE will be approximately 9 percent in
 2011.

WMECO is subject to SQ metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and WMECO pays any charges incurred for failure to meet such metrics to customers.  WMECO will not be required to pay an assessment charge for its 2010 performance results as WMECO performed at target for all of its SQ metrics in 2010.

On October 16, 2009, WMECO filed its proposal for a dynamic pricing smart meter pilot program with the DPU.  However, the Company does not expect it will conduct a pilot prior to 2012.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, WMECO does not own any generation assets (other than its recently constructed solar generation) and purchases its energy requirements from a variety of competitive sources through periodic RFPs.  For basic service power supply, WMECO issues RFPs periodically, consistent with DPU regulations.

REGULATED GAS DISTRIBUTION – YANKEE GAS SERVICES COMPANY

Yankee Gas operates the largest natural gas distribution system in Connecticut as measured by number of customers (approximately 206,000 customers in 71 cities and towns), and size of service territory (2,187 square miles).  Total throughput (sales and transportation) in both 2010 and 2009 was approximately 52.5 Bcf.  Yankee Gas provides firm natural gas sales service to retail customers who require a continuous natural gas supply throughout the year, such as residential customers who rely on gas for their heating, hot water and cooking needs, and commercial and industrial customers who choose to purchase natural gas from Yankee Gas.  Retail natural gas service in Connecticut is partially unbundled: residential customers in Yankee Gas’ service territory buy gas supply and delivery only from Yankee Gas while commercial and industrial customers have choice in their gas suppliers.  Yankee Gas offers firm transportat
ion service to its commercial and industrial customers who purchase gas from sources other than Yankee Gas as well as interruptible transportation and interruptible gas sales service to those commercial and industrial customers that have the capability to switch from natural gas to an alternative fuel on short notice.  Yankee Gas can interrupt service to these customers during peak demand periods or at any other time to maintain distribution system integrity.  Yankee Gas also owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, which enables the company to buy natural gas in periods of low demand, store it and use it during peak demand periods when prices are typically higher.

The following table shows the sources of 2010 gas operating revenues based on categories of customers:

A summary of firm natural gas sales in million cubic feet for Yankee Gas for 2010 and 2009 and the percentage changes in 2010 as compared to 2009 on an actual and weather normalized basis (using a 30-year average) is as follows:


Yankee Gas’ firm natural gas sales are subject to many of the same influences as our retail electric sales, but they have recently benefitted from a favorable price for natural gas relative to competing fuels resulting in commercial and industrial customers switching from interruptible service to firm service, and the addition of gas-fired distributed generation in Yankee Gas’ service territory.  Actual firm natural gas sales in 2010 were higher than 2009 despite the milder weather during the first quarter 2010 heating season.  Firm natural gas sales benefitted from these trends and from a large commercial customer who began to take service from Yankee Gas mid-way through the third quarter of 2009 and continued to take service throughout all of 2010.

In April 2010, Yankee Gas commenced construction of its WWL project, a 16-mile gas pipeline between Waterbury and Wallingford, Connecticut coupled with the increase of vaporization output of its LNG plant.  The project is expected to cost approximately $57.6 million.  In 2010, approximately $26.6 million was spent on construction of the WWL project, which included construction of a segment of pipeline connecting the Cheshire and Wallingford distribution systems.  The remainder of the pipeline construction and the expansion of the vaporization capacity of the LNG facility are expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2011

Rates

Yankee Gas is subject to regulation by the DPUC, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.

Distribution Rates:

On January 7, 2011, Yankee Gas filed an application with the DPUC to raise natural gas distribution rates by $32.8 million, or 7.3 percent, to be effective July 1, 2011, and by an additional $13 million, or 2.8 percent, to be effective July 1, 2012.  Among other items, Yankee Gas requested to maintain its current authorized ROE of 10.1 percent, that $57.6 million of costs associated with the WWL project be placed into rates, and that a substantial increase in capital funding to replace bare steel and cast iron pipe on Yankee Gas' system.  A final decision is expected in June 2011. Yankee Gas’ regulatory ROE was 8.6 percent in 2010 compared to 6.6 percent in 2009.  We expect Yankee Gas’ distribution segment regulatory ROE to be approximately 9 percent in 2011.

Sources and Availability of Natural Gas Supply

The DPUC requires that Yankee Gas meet the needs of its firm customers under all weather conditions.  Specifically, Yankee Gas must structure its portfolio to meet firm customer needs under a design day scenario (defined as the coldest day in 30 years) and under a design year scenario (defined as the average of the four coldest years in the last 30 years).  Yankee Gas’ LNG facility enables Yankee Gas to buy natural gas in periods of low demand, store it and use it during peak demand periods when prices are typically higher.  Yankee Gas’ on-system stored LNG and underground storage supplies help to meet consumption needs during the coldest days of winter.  Yankee Gas obtains its interstate capacity from the three interstate pipelines that currently directly serve Connecticut: the Algonquin, Tennessee and Iroquois Pipelines.  Yankee Gas has long-term firm contracts for capacity on TransCanada Pipelines Li
mited pipeline, Vector Pipeline, L.P., Tennessee Gas Pipeline, Iroquois Gas Transmission Pipeline, Algonquin Pipeline, Union Gas Limited, Dominion Transmission, Inc., National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission, L.P. pipelines.  Yankee Gas considers such transportation arrangements adequate for its needs.

ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION

General

CL&P, PSNH and WMECO and most other New England utilities, generation owners and marketers are parties to a series of agreements that provide for coordinated planning and operation of the region's generation and transmission facilities and the rules by which they participate in the wholesale markets and acquire transmission services.  Under these arrangements, ISO-NE, a non-profit corporation whose board of directors and staff are independent of all market participants, has served since 2005 as the RTO of the New England transmission system.  ISO-NE works to ensure the reliability of the system, administers, subject to FERC approval, the independent system operator tariff, oversees the efficient and competitive functioning of the regional wholesale power market and determines which costs of all regional major transmission facilities are shared by consumers throughout New England.

Wholesale Transmission Rates

Wholesale transmission revenues are recovered through formula rates that are approved by the FERC.  Our transmission revenues are recovered from New England customers through ISO-NE charges which recover costs of transmission and other transmission-related services provided by all regional transmission owners, with a portion of those revenues collected from the distribution segments of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO.

FERC ROE Decision

Pursuant to a series of orders involving the ROE for regionally planned New England transmission projects, the FERC set the base ROE at 11.14 percent and approved incentives that increased the ROE to 12.64 percent for those projects that were in-service by the end of 2008.  In addition, certain projects were granted additional ROE incentives by FERC under its transmission incentive policy.  As a result, CL&P earns between 12.64 percent and 13.1 percent on its major transmission projects.  All appeals of FERC's orders on the ROE for New England transmission owners have been denied.


On November 17, 2008, the FERC issued an order granting certain incentives and rate amendments to National Grid and us for certain components of the proposed NEEWS project, which is described below.  The approved incentives include (1) an ROE of 12.89 percent; (2) inclusion of 100 percent CWIP costs in rate base; and (3) full recovery of prudently incurred costs if any portion of NEEWS is abandoned for reasons beyond our control.  Several parties have sought rehearing of this FERC order on which FERC has not yet acted.

Transmission Projects

NEEWS

CL&P and WMECO are continuing to develop and build the NEEWS project, which is comprised of GSRP, the Interstate Reliability Project and the Central Connecticut Reliability Project, and is estimated to cost $1.52 billion in the aggregate (approximately $1.45 billion reflecting the impact of UI’s potential investment of up to approximately $69 million as discussed below).  CL&P and WMECO commenced substation construction on GSRP in December 2010 and expect to begin overhead line construction in the first half of 2011.  We expect GSRP to be placed in service in late 2013 at a cost of approximately $795 million.

CL&P is designing and building the Interstate Reliability Project in coordination with National Grid USA, whose segment of this phase will interconnect with CL&P’s at the Connecticut-Rhode Island border.  In August 2010, ISO-NE reaffirmed the need for the Interstate Reliability Project.  We expect CL&P's share of the costs of this project to be $301 million and that the project will be placed in service in late 2015.

The timing of the Central Connecticut Reliability Project is expected to be twelve months behind the Interstate Reliability Project and cost approximately $338 million.  ISO-NE continues to assess the need date for the Central Connecticut Reliability Project and we expect that ISO-NE will conclude its evaluation by mid-2011.

Included as part of NEEWS are $84 million of expenditures for associated reliability related projects, all of which have received siting approval and most are under construction.  The in-service dates for these projects range from later this year through 2013.

Northern Pass Transmission Line Project

NPT is a limited liability company jointly formed by NU and NSTAR to construct, own and operate the Northern Pass transmission line, a new HVDC transmission line from the border of Canada and the United States to Franklin, New Hampshire that will interconnect at the border with a new HVDC transmission line being developed by HQ TransEnergie, the transmission subsidiary of HQ.  NUTV, a subsidiary of NU, holds a 75 percent interest in NPT, with NSTAR Transmission Ventures, Inc., a subsidiary of NSTAR, holding the remaining 25 percent.  Consistent with FERC's February 11, 2011 order accepting the TSA between NPT and Hydro Renewable Energy that was filed December 15, 2011, NPT will charge Hydro Renewable Energy cost-based rates for firm transmission service over the Northern Pass line for a 40-year term.  The projected cost-of-service calculation includes an ROE of 12.56 percent through the construction phase of the 
project.  Upon commercial operation, the ROE will be equal to the ISO-NE regional rates base ROE (currently 11.14 percent) plus 1.42 percent based on a deemed capital structure for NPT of 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity.

In October 2010, NPT filed the Northern Pass project design with ISO-NE for technical approval and filed a presidential permit application with the DOE.  The DOE application seeks permission for NPT to construct and maintain facilities that cross the U.S. border and connect to HQ TransEnergie's facilities in Canada.  Assuming timely regulatory review and siting approvals, NPT expects to commence construction of the Northern Pass in 2013, with power flowing across the line in late 2015.

We currently estimate that our 75 percent share of the costs to build the Northern Pass transmission project will be approximately $830 million out of total expected costs of approximately $1.1 billion (including capitalized AFUDC).

Other Transmission Transactions

In July 2010, CL&P and UI entered into an agreement under which UI would acquire certain transmission assets within CL&P's portion of each of the NEEWS segments.  Under the terms of the agreement, which has received approval from the FERC and the DPUC, UI will have the option to invest up to $69 million or an amount equal to 8.4 percent of CL&P's costs for the assets, which are expected to aggregate approximately $828 million.

On December 17, 2010, CL&P and CTMEEC, a non-profit municipal joint action transmission entity formed by several Connecticut municipal electric companies, entered into an agreement , subject to DPUC approval, under which CTMEEC would acquire a segment of CL&P’s high voltage transmission lines in the town of Wallingford, Connecticut.  The transaction was approved by FERC on January 31, 2011.  The purchase price will be based on the net book value of the assets at the time of the closing of the sale in May 2011, projected to be approximately $42.3 million.  CL&P will continue to operate and maintain the lines for CTMEEC.


Transmission Rate Base

Under our FERC-approved tariff, transmission projects generally enter rate base once they are placed in commercial operation.  However, 100 percent of the NEEWS projects will enter rate base during their construction period.  At the end of 2010, our transmission rate base was approximately $2.8 billion, including approximately $2.1 billion at CL&P, $341 million at PSNH and $269 million at WMECO.  We forecast that our total transmission rate base will grow to approximately $4.8 billion by the end of 2015, including approximately $830 million at NPT.

CONSTRUCTION AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

The principal focus of our construction and capital improvement program is maintaining, upgrading and expanding our existing electric generation, transmission and distribution systems and our natural gas distribution system.  Our consolidated capital expenditures in 2010 totaled approximately $1 billion, almost all of which ($967 million) was expended by the Regulated companies.  The capital expenditures of these companies in 2011 are estimated to total approximately $1.2 billion, $477 million by CL&P, $284 million by PSNH, $287 million by WMECO and $113 million by Yankee Gas.  This capital budget includes anticipated costs for all committed capital projects (i.e., generation, transmission, distribution, environmental compliance and others) and those we expect to become committed projects in 2011.

In 2010, CL&P’s transmission capital expenditures totaled approximately $107 million, and its distribution capital expenditures totaled approximately $305 million.  For 2011, CL&P projects transmission capital expenditures of approximately $137 million and distribution capital expenditures of approximately $337 million.  During the period 2011 through 2015, CL&P plans to invest approximately $1 billion in transmission projects, the majority of which will be for NEEWS and $1.9 billon on distribution projects.  If all of the distribution and transmission projects are built as proposed, CL&P’s rate base for electric transmission is projected to increase from approximately $2.1 billion at the end of 2010 to approximately $2.6 billion by the end of 2015, and its rate base for distribution assets is projected to increase from approximately $2.3 billion to approximately $3.3 billion over the same pe
riod.

In 2010, PSNH's transmission capital expenditures totaled approximately $49 million, its distribution capital expenditures totaled approximately $84 million and its generation capital expenditures totaled $177 million.  For 2011, PSNH projects transmission capital expenditures of approximately $59 million, distribution capital expenditures of approximately $113 million and generation capital expenditures of approximately $112 million.  The bulk of the generation capital expenditures is for the Clean Air Project.  During the period 2011 through 2015, PSNH plans to spend approximately $293 million on transmission projects, approximately $621 million on distribution projects, and $274 million on generation projects.  If all of the distribution, generation and transmission projects are built as proposed, PSNH’s rate base for electric transmission is projected to increase from approximately $341 million at the en
d of 2010 to approximately $540 million by the end of 2015, and its rate base for distribution and generation assets is projected to increase from approximately $1.2 billion to approximately $1.9 billion over the same period.

In 2010, WMECO's transmission capital expenditures totaled approximately $95 million, its distribution capital expenditures totaled approximately $33.1 million and solar generation expenditures were $10 million.  In 2011, WMECO projects transmission capital expenditures of approximately $229 million, distribution capital expenditures of approximately $36 million and $22 million on solar generation.  During the period 2011 through 2015, WMECO plans to spend approximately $732 million on transmission projects, with the bulk of that amount to be spent on GSRP, approximately $194 million on distribution projects and $46 million on solar generation.  If all of the generation, distribution and transmission projects are built as proposed, WMECO’s rate base for electric transmission is projected to increase from approximately $269 million at the end of 2010 to approximately $803 million by the end of 2015 and its rate base fo
r distribution and generation assets is projected to increase from approximately $423 million to approximately $488 million over the same period.

In 2010, Yankee Gas capital expenditures totaled approximately $95 million.  For 2011, Yankee Gas projects total capital expenditures of approximately $113 million, approximately $30 million of which is expected to be related to the WWL project, $37 million related to basic business activities such as relocation of conflicting gas facilities and the purchase of meters, tools and information technology; $30 million related to reliability improvements; and $16 million for load growth and new business requests.  During the period 2011 through 2015, Yankee Gas plans on making approximately $587 million of capital expenditures, including approximately $30 million on the WWL project.  Future capital spending will likely be affected by price differences between the cost of natural gas with respect to home heating oil, natural gas supply, new home construction, road reconstruction, regulatory mandates and business requirements. &n
bsp;Excluding non-recurring major projects, NU expects that approximately 28 percent of Yankee Gas’ capital expenditures over the 2011-2015 period to be related to basic business activities, approximately 28 percent related to load growth and new business, and approximately 39 percent related to reliability initiatives, with the balance related to the WWL project.  If all of Yankee Gas projects are built as proposed, Yankee Gas’ investment in its regulated assets is projected to increase from approximately $682 million at the end of 2010 to approximately $969 million by the end of 2015.

FINANCING

NU subsidiaries issued a total of $145 million in long-term debt in 2010.  On March 8, 2010, WMECO issued $95 million of senior unsecured notes due March 1, 2020 carrying a coupon rate of 5.1 percent and on April 22, 2010, Yankee Gas issued $50 million of first mortgage bonds through a private placement with a maturity date of April 1, 2020 carrying a coupon rate of 4.87 percent.

In addition, on April 1, 2010, CL&P completed the remarketing of $62 million of tax-exempt secured PCRBs.  The PCRBs carry a coupon rate of 1.4 percent until April 1, 2011, at which time CL&P expects to remarket the bonds.


On September 24, 2010, NU parent entered into a three-year $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility, and CL&P, PSNH, WMECO, and Yankee Gas jointly entered into a three-year $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility, both replacing five-year credit facilities on similar terms and conditions that were scheduled to expire on November 6, 2010.  Like the previous facility, NU’s new revolving credit facility allows NU parent to borrow on a short-term or long-term basis, or issue LOCs, up to $500 million in the aggregate.  Under their new revolving credit facility, CL&P and PSNH are each able to draw up to $300 million, with WMECO and Yankee Gas each able to draw up to $200 million, all subject to the $400 million maximum aggregate borrowing limit.

Our credit facilities and indentures require that NU parent and certain of its subsidiaries, including CL&P, PSNH, WMECO and Yankee Gas, comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants as are customarily included in such agreements, including maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization of no more than 65 percent.  All such companies currently are, and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants.

We have annual sinking fund requirements of $4.3 million continuing in 2011 through 2012, the mandatory tender of $62 million of tax-exempt PCRBs by CL&P on April 1, 2011, at which time CL&P expects to remarket the bonds in the ordinary course.  Neither NU nor any of its subsidiaries have any debt maturities until April 1, 2012.

In light of the 2010 Tax Act and the related cash flow benefits, we are currently reevaluating the timing of our previously planned NU common equity issuance.  If we complete the proposed merger with NSTAR, we would no longer need to undertake the previously planned $300 million NU common equity issuance in 2012 nor issue any additional equity in the foreseeable future.

NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

General

CL&P, PSNH, WMECO and several other New England electric utilities are stockholders in three inactive regional nuclear generation companies, CYAPC, MYAPC and YAEC (collectively, the Yankee Companies).  The Yankee Companies have completed the physical decommissioning of their respective generation facilities and are now engaged in the long-term storage of their spent nuclear fuel.  Each Yankee Company collects decommissioning and closure costs through wholesale FERC-approved rates charged under power purchase agreements with CL&P, PSNH and WMECO and several other New England utilities.  These companies in turn recover these costs from their customers through state regulatory commission-approved retail rates.  The ownership percentages of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO in the Yankee Companies are set forth below:

Our share of the obligations to support the Yankee Companies under FERC-approved contracts is the same as the ownership percentages above.

OTHER REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

General

We are regulated in virtually all aspects of our business by various federal and state agencies, including the FERC, the SEC, and various state and/or local regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the industry and the service areas in which each of our companies operates, including the DPUC, which has jurisdiction over CL&P and Yankee Gas, the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over PSNH, and the DPU, which has jurisdiction over WMECO.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements with respect to water quality, air quality, toxic substances, hazardous waste and other environmental matters.  Additionally, our major generation and transmission facilities may not be constructed or significantly modified without a review of the environmental impact of the proposed construction or modification by the applicable federal or state agencies.  PSNH owns approximately 1,200 MW of generation assets and expects to spend approximately $430 million on its Clean Air Project, the installation of a wet flue gas desulphurization system at its Merrimack coal station to reduce its mercury and sulfur dioxide emissions.  Compliance with additional environmental laws and regulations, particularly air and water pollution control requirements may cause changes in operations or require further investments in new equipment at existing facilities.

Water Quality Requirements

The federal Clean Water Act requires every "point source" discharger of pollutants into navigable waters to obtain a NPDES permit from the EPA or state environmental agency specifying the allowable quantity and characteristics of its effluent.  States may also require additional permits for discharges into state waters.  We are in the process of obtaining or renewing all required NPDES or state discharge permits in effect for our facilities.  In each of the last three years, the costs incurred by the Company related to compliance with NPDES and state discharge permits have not been material.  The Company expects to incur additional costs related to these permits in the future; however, due to uncertainty regarding the imposition of new or additional requirements, the Company is unable to accurately estimate such costs.


Air Quality Requirements

The CAAA, as well as New Hampshire law, impose stringent requirements on emissions of SO


and NO

X

for the purpose of controlling acid rain and ground level ozone.  In addition, the CAAA address the control of toxic air pollutants.  Installation of continuous emissions monitors and expanded permitting provisions also are included.

In New Hampshire, the Multiple Pollutant Reduction Program capped NO

X

, SO


and CO


emissions beginning in 2007.  In addition, a 2006 New Hampshire law requires PSNH to install a wet flue gas desulphurization system, known as "scrubber" technology, to reduce mercury emissions of its coal fired plants by at least 80 percent (with the co-benefit of reductions in SO


emissions as well).  The Clean Air Project addresses this requirement.  PSNH began site work for this project in November 2008 and is scheduled to complete it by mid-2012.

In addition, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts are each members of the RGGI, a cooperative effort by ten northeastern and mid-Atlantic states, to develop a regional program for stabilizing and reducing CO


emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating plants.  Because CO


allowances issued by any participating state will be usable across all ten RGGI state programs, the individual state CO


trading programs, in the aggregate, will form one regional compliance market for CO


emissions.  A regulated power plant must hold CO


allowances equal to its emissions to demonstrate compliance at the end of a three-year compliance period that began in 2009.

Because neither CL&P nor WMECO currently own any generating assets (other than the solar facilities owned by WMECO, which do not emit CO


), neither is required to acquire CO


allowances; however, the CO


allowance costs borne by generators that provide energy supply to CL&P and WMECO will likely be included in wholesale rates charged to them, which costs are then recoverable from customers.

PSNH anticipates that its generating units will emit between four million and five million tons of CO


per year after taking into effect the operation of PSNH’s Northern Wood Power Project.  Under the RGGI formula, this Project decreased PSNH’s responsibility for reducing fossil-fired CO


emissions by approximately 425,000 tons per year, or almost ten percent.  New Hampshire legislation provides up to 2.5 million banked CO


allowances per year for PSNH’s fossil fueled generating plants during the 2009 through 2011 compliance period.  These banked CO


allowances will initially comprise approximately one-half of the yearly CO


allowances required for PSNH’s generating plants to comply with RGGI.  Such banked allowances will decrease over time.  PSNH expects to satisfy its remaining RGGI requirements by purchasing CO


allowances at
 auction or in the secondary market.  The cost of complying with RGGI requirements is recoverable from PSNH customers.

Each of the states in which we do business also has RPS requirements, which generally require fixed percentages of energy supply to come from renewable energy sources such as solar, hydropower, landfill gas, fuel cells and other similar sources.

New Hampshire’s RPS provision requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources, beginning in 2008 at four percent and ultimately reaching 23.8 percent by 2025.  In 2010, the total RPS obligation was 7.5 percent of total generation supplied to customers.  Energy suppliers, like PSNH, purchase RECs from producers that generate energy from a qualifying resource and use them to satisfy the RPS requirements.  PSNH also owns renewable sources and uses both internally generated RECs and purchased RECs to meet its RPS obligations.  To the extent that PSNH is unable to purchase sufficient RECs, it makes up the difference between the RECs purchased and its total obligation by making an alternative compliance payment for each REC requirement for which PSNH is deficient.  The costs of both the RECs and alternative compliance payments do not impact earni
ngs, as these costs are recovered by PSNH through its ES rates charged to customers.

Connecticut's RPS statute requires electricity suppliers to meet renewable energy standards, beginning with a four percent RPS in 2004. This percentage increases each year.  For 2010, the requirement was 14 percent with goals of 19.5 percent by 2015 and 27 percent by 2020.  CL&P is permitted to pass any costs incurred in complying with RPS on to customers through rates.

Massachusetts’ RPS program required electricity suppliers to meet a one percent renewable energy standard in 2003 and has a goal of 15 percent by 2015.  For 2010, the requirement was five percent.  WMECO is permitted to pass any costs incurred in complying with RPS on to customers through rates.

In addition, many states and environmental groups have challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict.  As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations could be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect.

Hazardous Materials Regulations

Prior to the last quarter of the 20

th

century when environmental best practices and laws were implemented, utility companies often disposed of residues from operations by depositing or burying them on-site or disposing of them at off-site landfills or other facilities.  Typical materials disposed of include coal gasification byproducts, fuel oils, ash, and other materials that might contain polychlorinated biphenyls or that otherwise might be hazardous.  It has since been determined that deposited or buried wastes, under certain circumstances, could cause groundwater contamination or create other environmental risks.  We have recorded a liability for what we believe is, based upon currently available information, our estimated environmental investigation and/or remediation costs for waste disposal sites for which we expect to bear legal liability.  We continue to evaluate the environmental impact of our for
mer disposal practices.  Under federal and state law, government agencies and private parties can attempt to impose liability on us for these


practices.  At December 31, 2010, the liability recorded by us for our reasonably estimable and probable environmental remediation costs for known sites needing investigation and/or remediation, exclusive of recoveries from insurance or from third parties, was approximately $37.1 million, representing 58 sites.  These costs could be significantly higher if remediation becomes necessary or when additional information as to the extent of contamination becomes available.

The most significant liabilities currently relate to future clean up costs at former MGP facilities.  These facilities were owned and operated by our predecessor companies from the mid-1800's to mid-1900's.  By-products from the manufacture of gas using coal resulted in fuel oils, hydrocarbons, coal tar, purifier wastes, metals and other waste products that may pose risks to human health and the environment.  We, through our subsidiaries, currently have partial or full ownership responsibilities at 28 former MGP sites.

HWP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NU, is continuing to evaluate additional potential remediation requirements at a river site in Massachusetts containing tar deposits associated with an MGP site that HWP sold to HG&E, a municipal electric utility, in 1902.  HWP is at least partially responsible for this site and has already conducted substantial investigative and remediation activities.  HWP's share of the remediation costs related to this site is not recoverable from customers.

Electric and Magnetic Fields

For more than twenty years, published reports have discussed the possibility of adverse health effects from EMF associated with electric transmission and distribution facilities and appliances and wiring in buildings and homes.  Although weak health risk associations reported in some epidemiology studies remain unexplained, most researchers, as well as numerous scientific review panels, considering all significant EMF epidemiology and laboratory studies, have concluded that the available body of scientific information does not support the conclusion that EMF affects human health.

We have closely monitored research and government policy developments for many years and will continue to do so.  In accordance with recommendations of various regulatory bodies and public health organizations, we reduce EMF associated with new transmission lines by the use of designs that can be implemented without additional cost or at a modest cost.  We do not believe that other capital expenditures are appropriate to minimize unsubstantiated risks.

Global Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emission Issues

Global climate change and greenhouse gas emission issues have received an increased focus from state governments and the federal government, particularly in recent years.  The EPA has initiated a rulemaking addressing greenhouse gas emissions and, on December 7, 2009, issued a finding that concluded that greenhouse gas emissions are "air pollution" and endanger public health and welfare and should be regulated.  The largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. is the electricity generating sector.  The EPA has mandated GHG emission reporting beginning in 2012 for 2011 emissions for certain aspects of our business including stationary combustion, volume of gas supplied to large customers and fugitive emissions of SF-6 gas and methane.

We are continually evaluating the risks presented by climate change concerns and issues.  Such concerns could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the generating facilities we own and operate as well as general utility operations.  (See "Air Quality Requirements" in this section for information concerning RGGI)  These could include federal "cap and trade" laws, or regulations requiring additional capital expenditures at our generating facilities.  In addition, such rules or regulations could potentially impact the prices we pay for goods and services provided by companies directly affected by such rules or regulations.  We would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers, but such costs could impact energy use by our customers.

Global climate change could potentially impact weather patterns such as increasing the frequency and severity of storms or altering temperatures.  These changes could affect our facilities and infrastructure and could also impact energy usage by our customers.

FERC Hydroelectric Project Licensing

Federal Power Act licenses may be issued for hydroelectric projects for terms of 30 to 50 years as determined by the FERC.  Upon the expiration of an existing license, (i) the FERC may issue a new license to the existing licensee, or (ii) the United States may take over the project or (iii) the FERC may issue a new license to a new licensee, upon payment to the existing licensee of the lesser of the fair value or the net investment in the project, plus severance damages, less certain amounts earned by the licensee in excess of a reasonable rate of return.

PSNH owns nine hydroelectric generating stations with a current claimed capability representing winter rates of approximately 71 MW, eight of which are licensed by the FERC under long-term licenses that expire on varying dates from 2017 through 2047.  PSNH and its hydroelectric projects are subject to conditions set forth in such licenses, the Federal Power Act and related FERC regulations, including provisions related to the condemnation of a project upon payment of just compensation, amortization of project investment from excess project earnings, possible takeover of a project after expiration of its license upon payment of net investment and severance damages and other matters.

Licensed operating hydroelectric projects are not generally subject to decommissioning during the license term in the absence of a specific license provision that expressly permits the FERC to order decommissioning during the license term.  However, the FERC has taken the position that under appropriate circumstances it may order decommissioning of hydroelectric projects at relicensing or may require the establishment of decommissioning trust funds as a condition of relicensing.  The FERC may also require project


decommissioning during a license term if a hydroelectric project is abandoned, the project license is surrendered or the license is revoked.   PSNH is not presently encountering any of these challenges.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we employed a total of 6,182 employees, excluding temporary employees, of which 1,847 were employed by CL&P, 1,240 by PSNH, 354 by WMECO, 429 by Yankee Gas and 2,307 were employed by NUSCO.  Approximately 2,212 employees of CL&P, PSNH, WMECO, NUSCO and Yankee Gas are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and The United Steelworkers and are covered by 11 union agreements.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Our website address is www.nu.com.  We make available through our website a link to the SEC's EDGAR website (http://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html), at which site NU's, CL&P's, WMECO's and PSNH's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports may be reviewed. Printed copies of these reports may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Northeast Utilities, 56 Prospect Street, Hartford, CT 06103.
