Item 1. Business

Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

NU, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by FERC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005.  We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly owned utility subsidiaries:

●

The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut;

●

NSTAR Electric Company (NSTAR Electric), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts;

●

Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire and owns generation assets used to serve customers;

●

Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of western Massachusetts and owns solar generating assets;

●

NSTAR Gas Company (NSTAR Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts; and

●

Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut.

NU also owns certain unregulated businesses through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NU Enterprises and NSTAR LLC, which are included in its Parent and other companies’ results of operations.

Although NU, CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO each report their financial results separately, we also include information in this report on a segment, or line-of-business, basis.  The Regulated companies' segments include the electric distribution segment, the natural gas distribution segment and the electric transmission segment.  The electric distribution segment includes the generation businesses of PSNH and WMECO.  The Regulated companies' segments represented substantially all of NU's total consolidated revenues for years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.

MERGER WITH NSTAR

On April 10, 2012, NU completed its merger with NSTAR (Merger).  Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended, NSTAR was merged with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of NU, which was subsequently renamed NSTAR LLC.  NU’s consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of NSTAR LLC and its subsidiaries for the period after April 10, 2012.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT

General

NU’s electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO, which are engaged in the distribution of electricity to retail customers in Connecticut, eastern Massachusetts, New Hampshire and western Massachusetts, respectively, plus the regulated electric generation businesses of PSNH and WMECO.

The following table shows the sources of 2012 electric franchise retail revenues for NU’s electric distribution companies, collectively, based on categories of customers, including the electric franchise retail revenues of NSTAR Electric from the date of merger, April 10, 2012, through December 31, 2012:


A summary of our distribution companies’ retail electric GWh sales and percentage changes for 2012, as compared to 2011, is as follows:

(1)

NU retail electric sales include the sales of NSTAR Electric from the date of merger, April 10, 2012, through December 31, 2012.

Actual retail electric sales for CL&P, NSTAR Electric and WMECO decreased in 2012, as compared to 2011, due primarily to the warmer than normal weather in the first quarter of 2012, as compared to colder than normal weather in the first quarter of 2011, while actual retail electric sales for PSNH were 0.1 percent higher than last year.  In 2012, heating degree days were 11 percent lower in Connecticut and western Massachusetts, 7 percent

lower in the Boston metropolitan area, and 9 percent lower in New Hampshire, as compared to 2011.  On a weather normalized basis (based on 30-year average temperatures), the average NU combined consolidated total retail electric sales decreased 0.2 percent in 2012, as compared to 2011, assuming NSTAR Electric had been part of the NU combined electric distribution system for all periods under consideration.  We believe these decreases were due primarily to increased conservation efforts among all our customer classes and the continued installation of distributed generation at our commercial and industrial customers’ facilities.  For WMECO, the fluctuations in retail electric sales no longer impact earnings as the DPU approved a sales decoupling plan effective February 1, 2011.  Under this decoupling plan, WMECO now has an established annual level of baseline distribution delivery service revenues of $125.4 million

that it is able to recover.  This effectively breaks the relationship between sales volume and revenues recognized.

Major Storms

On August 28, 2011, Tropical Storm Irene caused extensive damage to our distribution system.  Approximately 800,000 CL&P, PSNH and WMECO customers were without power at the peak of the outages, with approximately 670,000 of those customers in Connecticut.  Approximately 500,000 customer outages occurred on the NSTAR Electric distribution system in its aftermath.

On October 29, 2011, an unprecedented storm inundated our service territory with heavy snow causing significant damage to our distribution and transmission systems.  Approximately 1.2 million of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO’s electric distribution customers were without power at the peak of the outages, with 810,000 of those customers in Connecticut, 237,000 in New Hampshire, and 140,000 in western Massachusetts.  In terms of customer outages, this was the most severe storm in CL&P’s history, surpassing Tropical Storm Irene; the third most severe in PSNH’s history; and the most severe in WMECO's history.  The storm also caused approximately 200,000 customer outages on the NSTAR Electric distribution system.

On October 29, 2012, Hurricane Sandy caused extensive damage to our electric distribution system across all three states.  Approximately 1.5 million of our 3.1 million electric distribution customers were without power during or following the storm, with approximately 850,000 of those customers in Connecticut, approximately 472,000 in Massachusetts, and approximately 137,000 in New Hampshire.

As of December 31, 2012, deferred storm restoration costs related to these major storms that are deferred for future recovery at CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, and WMECO were as follows:


On February 8, 2013, a blizzard caused damage to the electric delivery systems of CL&P and NSTAR Electric.  We have estimated that approximately 71,000 and 350,000 of CL&P and NSTAR Electric's distribution customers, respectively, were without power during or following the storm.  We believe that this storm will cost between $100 million to $120 million, with approximately 90 percent of those costs relating to NSTAR Electric.  Management expects the costs to meet the criteria for specific cost recovery in Connecticut and Massachusetts and, as a result, does not expect the storm to have a material impact on the results of operations of CL&P or NSTAR Electric.  Each operating company will seek recovery of these anticipated deferred storm costs through its applicable regulatory recovery process.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – CONNECTICUT

THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY

CL&P’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2012, CL&P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.2 million customers in 149 cities and towns in Connecticut, covering an area of 4,400 square miles.  CL&P does not own any electric generation facilities.

The following table shows the sources of CL&P’s 2012 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

A summary of CL&P’s retail electric GWh sales and percentage changes for 2012, as compared to 2011, is as follows:

Rates

CL&P is subject to regulation by PURA, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.  CL&P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  CL&P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewables, CTA, SBC and other charges that are assessed on all customers. Connecticut utilities are entitled under state law to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operation and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.

Under Connecticut law, all of CL&P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL&P remains their electric distribution company.  For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, under SS rates for customers with less than 500 kilowatts of demand, and LRS rates for customers with 500 kilowatts or more of demand, CL&P purchases power under standard offer contracts and passes the cost of the power to customers through a combined GSC and FMCC charge on customers’ bills.

CL&P continues to supply approximately 35 percent of its customer load at SS or LRS rates while the other 65 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on CL&P’s delivery business or its operating income.

The distribution rates established by the PURA for CL&P are comprised of the following:

·

GSC charge (the electric generation services component), which recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  The GSC charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled semi-annually in accordance with the directives of PURA.  Expense/revenue reconciliation amounts are recovered in subsequent rates.


·

FMCC charge, which recovers any costs imposed by the FERC as part of the New England Standard Market Design, including locational marginal pricing, locational installed capacity payments, any cost approved by PURA to reduce FMCC charges (with conditions) and reliability must run contracts.  The FMCC charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled semi-annually in accordance with the directives of PURA.  Expense/revenue reconciliation amounts are recovered in subsequent rates.

·

SBC charge, established to fund expenses for the public education outreach program, costs associated with various hardship and low income programs, a program to compensate municipalities for losses in property tax revenue due to decreases in the value of electric generating facilities resulting directly from electric industry restructuring, displaced worker protection costs, unfunded storage and disposal costs for spent nuclear fuel generated before January 1, 2000, and decommissioning fund contributions.  Any element of the SBC charge may be revised by PURA as the need arises.  The SBC charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

·

CTA charge, which pays the principal and interest on RRBs as well as the reasonable and necessary costs related to the RRBs financing.  The CTA charge is also assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring as well as various IPP contracts that were not funded with the proceeds of the RRBs. The CTA charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

·

The Renewable Energy Investment Fund charge, which is used to promote investment in renewable energy sources.  Funds collected by this charge are deposited into the Renewable Energy Investment Fund and administered by Connecticut Innovations, Incorporated.  The Renewable Energy Investment Fund charge is set by statute and is currently 0.1 cent per kWh.

·

C&LM charge, established to implement cost-effective energy conservation programs and market transformation initiatives.

·

Transmission adjustment clause, which reconciles on a semi-annual basis the transmission revenues billed to customers against the transmission costs of acquiring such services, to recover all of its transmission expenses on a timely basis.

CL&P, jointly with UI, has entered into four CfDs for a total of approximately 787 MW of capacity consisting of three generation projects and one demand response project.  The capacity CfDs extend through 2026 and obligate the utilities to pay the difference between a set price and the value that the projects receive in the ISO-NE markets.  The contracts have terms of up to 15 years beginning in 2009 and are subject to a sharing agreement with UI, whereby UI will have a 20 percent share of the costs and benefits of these contracts.  CL&P's portion of the costs and benefits of these contracts will be paid by or refunded to CL&P's customers.

CL&P, jointly with UI, has entered into three CfDs (each having a 80 percent to 20 percent sharing mechanism as described above), with developers of peaking generation units approved by the PURA (Peaker CfDs).  These units have a total of approximately 500 MW of peaking capacity.  The Peaker CfDs pay the developer the difference between capacity, forward reserve and energy market revenues and a cost-of-service payment stream for 30 years.  The ultimate cost or benefit to CL&P under these contracts will depend on the costs of plant construction and operation and the prices that the projects receive for capacity and other products in the ISO-NE markets.  CL&P's portion of the amounts paid or received under the Peaker CfDs will be recoverable from or refunded to CL&P's customers.

On June 30, 2010, PURA issued a final order in CL&P’s most recent retail distribution rate case approving distribution rates and establishing CL&P’s authorized distribution regulatory ROE at 9.4 percent.

On March 13, 2012, NU and NSTAR reached a comprehensive settlement agreement with both the Connecticut Attorney General and the Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel related to the Merger.  The settlement agreement covered a variety of matters, including a CL&P base distribution rate freeze until December 1, 2014.  The settlement agreement also provided for a $25 million rate credit to CL&P customers and the establishment of a $15 million fund for energy efficiency and other initiatives to be disbursed at the direction of the DEEP.  CL&P also agreed to forego rate recovery of $40 million of deferred storm costs associated with restoration activities following Tropical Storm Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm.  On April 2, 2012, the PURA approved the settlement agreement and the Merger.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, CL&P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy to serve its SS and LRS loads from a variety of competitive sources through periodic requests for proposals.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for SS periodically for periods of up to three years to mitigate the risks associated with energy price volatility for its residential and small and medium load commercial and industrial customers.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for LRS for larger commercial and industrial customers every three months.  Currently, CL&P has contracts in place with various suppliers for all of its SS loads for the first half of 2013, and 70 percent of expected load for the second half of 2013.  CL&P intends to purchase 10 percent of the SS load for the second half of 2013.  None of the SS load for 2014 has been procured.  CL&P’s contracts for its LRS loads extend through the second quarter of 2013, and CL&P intends to purchase 10 percent of the LRS load for the third quarter of 2013.


ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – MASSACHUSETTS

NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY

WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS ELECTRIC COMPANY

The electric distribution businesses of NSTAR Electric and WMECO consist primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to residential, commercial and industrial customers within their respective franchise service territories.  As of December 31, 2012, NSTAR Electric furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers in Boston and 80 surrounding cities and towns in Massachusetts, including Cape Cod and Martha’s Vineyard, covering an area of 1,702 square miles.  WMECO provides retail franchise electric service to approximately 207,000 retail customers in 59 cities and towns in the western region of Massachusetts, covering an area of 1,500 square miles.  Neither NSTAR Electric nor WMECO owns any fossil or hydro-electric generating facilities, and each purchases its respective energy requirements from competitive suppliers.

In 2009, WMECO was authorized by the DPU to install 6 MW of solar energy generation in its service territory.  In October 2010, WMECO completed development of a 1.8 MW solar generation facility on a site in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, and in December 2011 completed development of a 2.3 MW solar generation facility in Springfield, Massachusetts.  In connection with the Attorney General settlement agreement (as defined below) that approved the Merger in Massachusetts, WMECO committed to increase its solar generation capacity to 8 MW.  WMECO is continuing to evaluate sites suitable for development of the remaining 3.9 MW of capacity.  WMECO will sell all energy and other products from its solar generation facilities into the ISO-NE market.  NSTAR Electric does not own any solar generating facilities, but agreed to issue a request for proposals to enter into long-term contracts for 10 megawatts of solar power in connection with the Attorney General settlement agreement that approved the Merger in Massachusetts.  NSTAR Electric has entered in two contracts for 5 MW of capacity, which contracts are still pending approval at the DPU.

The following table shows the sources of the 2012 electric franchise retail revenues of NSTAR Electric and WMECO based on categories of customers:

A summary of NSTAR Electric’s and WMECO’s retail electric GWh sales and percentage changes for 2012, as compared to 2011, is as follows:

Rates

NSTAR Electric and WMECO are each subject to regulation by the DPU, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.  The present general rate structure for both NSTAR Electric and WMECO consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  Massachusetts utilities are entitled under state law to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operation and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.

Under Massachusetts law, all customers of each of NSTAR Electric and WMECO are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while NSTAR Electric or WMECO, as the case may be, remains their distribution company.  Both NSTAR Electric and WMECO purchase power from competitive suppliers for, and pass through the cost to, their respective customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier (basic service).  Basic service charges are adjusted and reconciled on an annual basis.  Most of the residential and small commercial and industrial customers of NSTAR Electric and WMECO have continued to buy their power from NSTAR Electric or WMECO, as the case may be, at basic service rates.  Most large commercial and industrial customers have switched to a competitive energy supplier.


The Cape Light Compact, an inter-governmental organization consisting of the 21 towns and two counties on Cape Cod and Martha’s Vineyard, serves 200,000 customers through the delivery of energy efficiency programs, effective consumer advocacy, competitive electricity supply and green power options.  NSTAR Electric continues to provide electric service to these customers including the delivery of power, meter reading, billing, and customer service.

NSTAR Electric continues to supply approximately 40 percent of its customer load at basic service rates while the other 60 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  WMECO continues to supply approximately 49 percent of its customer load at basic service rates while the other 51 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because customer migration is limited to energy supply service, it has no impact on the delivery business or operating income of NSTAR and WMECO.

The distribution rates established by the DPU for NSTAR Electric and WMECO are comprised of the following:

·

A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver power to its destination, as well as ongoing operating costs.  The distribution charge also includes the recovery, on a fully reconciling basis, of certain DPU-approved safety and reliability program costs, a Pension and PBOP Rate Adjustment Mechanism (PAM) to recover incremental pension and PBOP benefit costs, a reconciling rate adjustment mechanism to recover costs associated with the residential assistance adjustment clause, a net-metering reconciliation surcharge to collect the lost revenues and credits associated with net-metering facilities installed by customers, and an Energy Efficiency Reconciling Factor (EERF) to recover energy efficiency program costs and lost base revenues in addition to those charges recovered in the energy conservation charge.

·

A basic service charge represents the collection of energy costs, including costs related to charge-offs of uncollected energy costs, through DPU-approved rate mechanisms.  Electric distribution companies in Massachusetts are required to obtain and resell power to retail customers through basic service for those who choose not to buy energy from a competitive energy supplier.  Basic service rates are reset every six months (every three months for large commercial and industrial customers).  The price of basic service is intended to reflect the average competitive market price for electric power.  Additionally, the DPU has authorized NSTAR Electric to recover the cost of its Dynamic Pricing Smart Grid Pilot Program through the basic service charge.

·

A transition charge represents costs to be collected primarily from previously held investments in generating plants, costs related to existing above-market power contracts, and contract costs related to long-term power contracts buy-outs.

·

A transmission charge to recover the costs of transporting electricity over high voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market.

·

An energy conservation charge represents a legislatively-mandated charge to collect costs for energy efficiency programs.

·

A renewable energy charge represents a legislatively-mandated charge to collect the costs to support the development and promotion of renewable energy projects.

Rate Settlement Agreement

On February 15, 2012, NU and NSTAR reached comprehensive settlement agreements with the Massachusetts Attorney General (Attorney General settlement agreement) and the DOER related to the Merger.  The Attorney General settlement agreement covered a variety of rate-making and rate design issues, including a base distribution rate freeze through 2015 for NSTAR Electric and WMECO, a rate credit of $15 million to customers of NSTAR Electric and a rate credit of $3 million to customers of WMECO.  The settlement agreement reached with the DOER covered the same rate-making and rate design issues as the Attorney General's settlement agreement, as well as a variety of matters impacting the advancement of Massachusetts clean energy policy established by the Green Communities Act and Global Warming Solutions Act. On April 4, 2012, the DPU approved the settlement agreements and the Merger.

NSTAR Electric is operating under a DPU-approved Rate Settlement Agreement (Rate Settlement Agreement) that was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2012.  As noted above, the rates under the Rate Settlement Agreement are subject to a base distribution rate freeze through 2015 pursuant to the Attorney General settlement agreement.  Pursuant to a 2008 DPU order, Massachusetts electric utilities must adopt rate structures that decouple the volume of energy sales from the utility’s revenues in their next rate case.  The exact timing of NSTAR Electric’s next rate case has not yet been determined, but it will not be before 2015.

In WMECO’s January 31, 2011 rate decision, the DPU approved a revenue decoupling reconciliation mechanism that provides assurance that WMECO will recover a DPU pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue to manage all other distribution operating expenses and earn a level of return on its capital investment.  The rates under the January 31, 2011 rate decision are subject to a base distribution rate freeze through 2015 pursuant to the Attorney General settlement agreement .

NSTAR Electric and WMECO are each subject to service quality (SQ) metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and must pay to customers any charges incurred for failure to meet such metrics.  Neither NSTAR Electric nor WMECO will be required to


pay an assessment charge for its 2012 performance results as both companies performed at or above target for all of their respective SQ metrics in 2012.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, neither NSTAR Electric nor WMECO owns any generation assets (other than WMECO’s recently constructed solar generation), and both companies purchase their respective energy requirements from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals issued periodically, consistent with DPU regulations.  NSTAR Electric and WMECO enter into supply contracts for basic service for 50 percent of their respective residential and small commercial and industrial customers twice a year for twelve month terms.  Both NSTAR Electric and WMECO enter into supply contracts for basic service for 100 percent of large commercial and industrial customers every three months.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – NEW HAMPSHIRE

PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

PSNH’s distribution business consists primarily of the generation, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2012, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 500,000 retail customers in 211 cities and towns in New Hampshire, covering an area of 5,628 square miles. PSNH also owns and operates approximately 1,200 MW of primarily fossil fueled electricity generation plants.  Included in those electric generating plants is PSNH’s 50 MW wood-burning Northern Wood Power Project at its Schiller Station in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and approximately 70 MW of hydroelectric generation.  PSNH’s distribution business includes the activities of its generation business.

The Clean Air Project, a wet flue gas desulphurization system (Scrubber), was constructed and placed in service by PSNH at its Merrimack Station in September 2011.  The cost of the Scrubber is expected to be recovered through PSNH's ES rates under New Hampshire law.  By November 2011, both of Merrimack Station’s coal-fired units were integrated with the Scrubber, and the Scrubber is now reducing emissions from the units.  PSNH completed remaining project construction activities in 2012 and the final cost of the project was approximately $421 million

.

The Clean Air Project was placed in service and began operations nearly two years before the statutory deadline of July 1, 2013.  Tests to date indicate that the Scrubber reduces emissions of SO


and mercury from Merrimack Station by over 90 percent, which is well in excess of state and federal requirements.  Notwithstanding the Clean Air Project's environmental successes well in advance of the statutory deadline, competitors and environmental groups continue to challenge PSNH's right to recover the costs of this legally-mandated project.  In particular, TransCanada, a Canadian energy company that is pursuing the transcontinental Keystone XL pipeline across the United States and is a participant in the U.S. competitive electricity market, and the Conservation Law Foundation, an environmental group which initially supported the law requiring installation of the Scrubber and which formally notified PSNH that it intended to sue PSNH under the Clean Air Act for not installing such emissions control technology, both now claim PSNH was imprudent for pursuing the Clean Air Project.  PSNH is vigorously defending its constitutionally protected right to recover the costs of the Clean Air Project, which were invested to comply with the express mandates of state law.

The following table shows the sources of PSNH’s 2012 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

A summary of PSNH’s retail electric GWh sales and percentage changes for 2012, as compared to 2011, is as follows:


Rates

PSNH is subject to regulation by the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.

New Hampshire utilities are entitled under state law to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operation and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.

Under New Hampshire law, all of PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers, with PSNH providing default energy service under its ES rate for those customers who do not elect to use a third party supplier.  Prior to 2009, PSNH experienced only a minimal amount of customer migration.  However, customer migration levels began to increase significantly in 2009 as energy costs decreased from their historic high levels and competitive energy suppliers with more pricing flexibility were able to offer electricity supply at lower prices than PSNH.  By the end of 2012, approximately 9.4 percent of all of PSNH’s customers (approximately 44 percent of load), mostly large commercial and industrial customers, had switched to competitive energy suppliers.  This was an increase from 2011, when 2.6 percent of customers (approximately 36 percent of load) had switched to competitive energy suppliers.  The increased level of migration has caused an increase in the ES rate, as fixed costs of PSNH’s generation assets must be spread over a smaller group of customers and lower sales volume.  The customers that did not choose a third party supplier, predominately residential and small commercial and industrial customers, are now paying a larger proportion of these fixed costs. On July 26, 2011, the NHPUC ordered PSNH to file a rate proposal that would mitigate the impact of customer migration expected to occur when the ES rate is higher than market prices.  On January 26, 2012, the NHPUC rejected the PSNH proposal and ordered PSNH to file a new proposal no later than June 30, 2012, addressing certain issues raised by the NHPUC.  On April 27, 2012, PSNH filed its proposed Alternative Default Energy Service Rate that addresses customer migration, with an effective date of July 1, 2012.  The proposal, if implemented, would result in no impact to earnings and would allow for an increased contribution to fixed costs for all ES customers.  Hearings were held on October 18, 2012 and November 26, 2012.  A final decision is expected in the first quarter of 2013.

PSNH cannot predict if the upward pressure on ES rates due to customer migration will continue into the future, as future migration levels are dependent on market prices and supplier alternatives.  If future market prices once more exceed the average ES rate level, some or all of these customers on third party supply may migrate back to PSNH.

The distribution rates established by the NHPUC for PSNH are comprised of the following:

·

ES charge, which recovers PSNH’s generation and purchased power costs from customers on a current basis and allows for an ROE of 9.81 percent on its generation investment.

·

SCRC, which allows PSNH to recover its stranded costs, including above-market expenses incurred under mandated power purchase obligations and other long-term investments and obligations.  PSNH has financed a significant portion of its stranded costs through securitization by issuing RRBs secured by the right to recover these stranded costs from customers over time. PSNH recovers the costs of these RRBs through the SCRC rate.  The amount of the RRB obligation decreases each quarter and the RRBs are scheduled to be retired as of May 1, 2013.

·

TCAM, which allows PSNH to recover its transmission related costs on a fully reconciling basis.  The TCAM is adjusted on July 1 of each year.

On an annual basis, PSNH files with the NHPUC an ES/SCRC cost reconciliation filing for the preceding year.  The difference between revenues and costs are included in the ES/SCRC rate calculations and refunded to or recovered from customers in the subsequent period approved by the NHPUC.  On December 28, 2012, the NHPUC issued orders approving PSNH’s requests to adjust its ES and SCRC rates effective with service rendered on and after January 1, 2013.  The orders approve an increase to the ES billing rate to reflect projected costs for 2013 and a decrease to the SCRC billing rate to reflect the full amortization of RRBs as of May 1, 2013.  The impact to customers that purchase energy from PSNH is a net increase of 1.287 cents per kWh in total rates.

On June 28, 2010, the NHPUC approved a joint settlement of PSNH's rate case.  Under the approved settlement, if PSNH's 12-month rolling average ROE for distribution exceeds 10 percent, amounts over the 10 percent level are to be allocated 75 percent to customers and 25 percent to PSNH.  Additionally, the settlement provided that the authorized regulatory ROE on distribution plant would continue at the previously allowed level of 9.67 percent, and also permitted PSNH to file a request to collect certain exogenous costs and step increases on an annual basis.  In 2012, PSNH filed for a step increase and a change in its accrual to its major storm reserve fund.  On June 27, 2012, the NHPUC approved an annualized distribution rate increase of $7.1 million effective July 1, 2012, for the step increase.  Additionally, PSNH was allowed a $3.5 million increase in the annual accrual to its major storm reserve fund effective July 1, 2012.

On November 22, 2011, the NHPUC opened a docket to review the Clean Air Project including the establishment of temporary rates for near-term recovery of Clean Air Project costs, a prudence review of PSNH's overall construction program, and establishment of permanent rates for recovery of prudently incurred Clean Air Project costs. On April 10, 2012, the NHPUC issued an order authorizing temporary rates, effective April 16, 2012, which recover a significant portion of the Clean Air Project costs, including a return on equity. The docket will continue for a comprehensive prudence review of the Clean Air Project and the establishment of a permanent rate. The temporary rates will remain in effect until a permanent rate allowing full recovery of all prudently incurred costs is approved. At that time,


the NHPUC will reconcile recoveries collected under the temporary rates with final approved rates.  PSNH expects hearings to commence in this proceeding on or about the third quarter of 2013.  PSNH believes that its actions related to Clean Air Project construction will be deemed prudent. The project was completed for $421 million, approximately $36 million below budget, and has reduced mercury and sulfur emissions by more than 90 percent.  On September 6, 2012, a consultant for the NHPUC filed a report with the NHPUC concluding that PSNH had effectively managed the Clean Air Project.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

During 2012, approximately 59 percent of PSNH’s load was met through its own generation, long-term power supply provided pursuant to orders of the NHPUC, and contracts with third parties.  The remaining 41 percent of PSNH's load was met by short-term (less than one year) purchases and spot purchases in the competitive New England wholesale power market.  PSNH expects to meet its load requirements in 2013 in a similar manner.  Included in the 59 percent above are PSNH’s obligations to purchase power from approximately two dozen IPPs, the output of which it either uses to serve its customer load or sells into the ISO-NE market.

NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT

General

NU’s natural gas distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of NSTAR Gas and Yankee Gas, which are engaged in the distribution of natural gas to retail customers in eastern Massachusetts and Connecticut, respectively.

The following table shows the sources of the 2012 natural gas franchise retail revenues of NSTAR Gas and Yankee Gas based on categories of customers:

(1)

NSTAR Gas’ revenue for the full-year ended December 31, 2012, has been provided for comparative purposes only.

A summary of NSTAR Gas’ and Yankee Gas’ retail firm natural gas sales and percentage changes in million cubic feet for 2012, as compared to 2011, is as follows:

(1)

NSTAR Gas’ sales data for the full-year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 2011 has been provided for comparative purposes only.

(2)

Special contracts are unique to the Yankee Gas customers who take service under such an arrangement and generally specify the amount of distribution revenue to be paid to Yankee Gas regardless of the customers’ usage.

Our firm natural gas sales are subject to many of the same influences as our retail electric sales, but have benefitted from lower natural gas prices and customer growth across all three customer classes.  In 2012, excluding the impact of NSTAR Gas sales, actual sales decreased, as compared to 2011, due primarily to the warmer than normal weather in the first quarter of 2012, as compared to colder than normal weather in the first quarter of 2011.  On a weather normalized basis, Yankee Gas’ 2012 sales increased due primarily to customer growth, lower cost of natural gas, the migration of interruptible customers switching to firm service rates, and the addition of gas-fired distributed generation in Yankee Gas’ service territory.

On a weather-normalized basis, the average NU combined consolidated total firm natural gas sales increased 2.7 percent

in 2012, as compared to 2011, assuming NSTAR Gas had been part of the NU combined natural gas distribution system for all periods under consideration.


NSTAR GAS COMPANY

NSTAR Gas distributes natural gas to approximately 272,000 customers in 51 communities in central and eastern Massachusetts covering 1,067 square miles.  Total throughput (sales and transportation) in 2012 was approximately 60.5 Bcf.  NSTAR Gas provides firm natural gas sales service to retail customers who require a continuous natural gas supply throughout the year, such as residential customers who rely on gas for heating, hot water and cooking needs, and commercial and industrial customers who choose to purchase natural gas from NSTAR Gas.

Rates

NSTAR Gas generates revenues primarily through the sale and/or transportation of natural gas. Gas sales and transportation services are divided into two categories: firm, whereby NSTAR Gas must supply gas and/or transportation services to customers on demand; and interruptible, whereby NSTAR Gas may, generally during colder months, temporarily discontinue service to high volume commercial and industrial customers. Sales and transportation of gas to interruptible customers have no impact on NSTAR Gas’ operating income because a substantial portion of the margin for such service is returned to its firm customers as rate reductions.

The Attorney General settlement agreement that approved the Merger provided for a rate freeze through 2015 and a rate credit of $3 million to NSTAR Gas customers.

Retail natural gas delivery and supply rates are established by the DPU and are comprised of:

·

A distribution charge consisting of a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge that collects the costs of building and expanding the natural gas infrastructure to deliver natural gas supply to its customers. This also includes collection of ongoing operating costs;

·

A seasonal cost of gas adjustment clause (CGAC) that collects natural gas supply costs, pipeline and storage capacity costs, costs related to charge-offs of uncollected energy costs and working capital related costs. The CGAC is reset every six months. In addition, NSTAR Gas files interim changes to its CGAC factor when the actual costs of natural gas supply vary from projections by more than 5 percent; and

·

A local distribution adjustment clause (LDAC) that collects energy efficiency program costs, environmental costs, PAM related costs, and costs associated with the residential assistance adjustment clause.  The LDAC is reset annually and provides for the recovery of certain costs applicable to both sales and transportation customers.

NSTAR Gas purchases financial contracts based on NYMEX natural gas futures in order to reduce cash flow variability associated with the purchase price for approximately one-third of its natural gas purchases.  These purchases are made under a program approved by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities in 2006.  This practice attempts to minimize the impact of fluctuations in prices to NSTAR Gas’ firm gas customers.  These financial contracts do not procure gas supply.  All costs incurred or benefits realized when these contracts are settled are included in the CGAC.

Sources and Availability of Natural Gas Supply

NSTAR Gas maintains a flexible resource portfolio consisting of natural gas supply contracts, transportation contracts on interstate pipelines, market area storage and peaking services.  NSTAR Gas purchases transportation, storage, and balancing services from Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company and Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, as well as other upstream pipelines that transport gas from major producing regions in the U.S., including Gulf Coast, Mid-continent, and Appalachian Shale supplies to the final delivery points in the NSTAR Gas service area.  NSTAR Gas purchases all of its natural gas supply from a firm portfolio management contract with a term of one year, which has a maximum quantity of approximately 139,500 MMBtu/day.

In addition to the firm transportation and natural gas supplies mentioned above, NSTAR Gas utilizes contracts for underground storage and LNG facilities to meet its winter peaking demands.  The LNG facilities, described below, are located within NSTAR Gas’ distribution system and are used to liquefy and store pipeline gas during the warmer months for vaporization and use during the heating season.  During the summer injection season, excess pipeline capacity and supplies are used to deliver and store natural gas in market area underground storage facilities located in the New York and Pennsylvania region.  Stored natural gas is withdrawn during the winter season to supplement flowing pipeline supplies in order to meet firm heating demand.  NSTAR Gas has firm underground storage contracts and total storage capacity entitlements of approximately 6.6 Bcf.

A portion of the storage of natural gas supply for NSTAR Gas during the winter heating season is provided by Hopkinton, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NSTAR LLC.  The facilities consist of an LNG liquefaction and vaporization plant and three above-ground cryogenic storage tanks in Hopkinton, Massachusetts having an aggregate capacity of 3.0 Bcf of liquefied natural gas.  NSTAR Gas also has access to facilities in Acushnet, Massachusetts that include additional storage capacity of 0.5 Bcf and additional vaporization capacity.


Based on information currently available regarding projected growth in demand and estimates of availability of future supplies of pipeline natural gas, NSTAR Gas believes that participation in planned and anticipated pipeline expansion projects will be required in order for it to meet current and future sales growth opportunities.

YANKEE GAS SERVICES COMPANY

Yankee Gas operates the largest natural gas distribution system in Connecticut as measured by number of customers (approximately 212,000 customers in 71 cities and towns), and size of service territory (2,187 square miles).  Total throughput (sales and transportation) in 2012 was approximately 51 Bcf.  Yankee Gas provides firm natural gas sales service to retail customers who require a continuous natural gas supply throughout the year, such as residential customers who rely on gas for heating, hot water and cooking needs, and commercial and industrial customers who choose to purchase natural gas from Yankee Gas.  Yankee Gas also owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, which is used primarily to assist it in meeting its supplier-of-last-resort obligations and also enables it to make economic purchases of natural gas, which typically occur during periods of low demand.

Retail natural gas service in Connecticut is partially unbundled: residential customers in Yankee Gas’ service territory buy gas supply and delivery only from Yankee Gas while commercial and industrial customers may choose their gas suppliers.  Yankee Gas offers firm transportation service to its commercial and industrial customers who purchase gas from sources other than Yankee Gas as well as interruptible transportation and interruptible gas sales service to those commercial and industrial customers that have the capability to switch from natural gas to an alternative fuel on short notice, for whom Yankee Gas can interrupt service during peak demand periods or at any other time to maintain distribution system integrity.

Rates

Yankee Gas is subject to regulation by PURA, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, affiliate transactions, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.

Retail natural gas delivery and supply rates are established by the PURA and are comprised of:

·

A distribution charge consisting of a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge that collects the costs of building and expanding the natural gas infrastructure to deliver natural gas supply to its customers. This also includes collection of ongoing operating costs;

·

Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clause, which allows Yankee Gas to recover the costs of the procurement of natural gas for its firm and seasonal customers.  Differences between actual natural gas costs and collection amounts on August 31st of each year are deferred and then recovered or returned to customers during the following year.  Carrying charges on outstanding balances are calculated using Yankee Gas' weighted average cost of capital in accordance with the directives of the PURA; and

·

Conservation Adjustment Mechanism (CAM), which allows 100 percent recovery of conservation costs through this mechanism, with a return.  The reconciliation process produces deferrals for future recovery or refund in future customer rates each year.

On June 29, 2011 PURA issued a final decision in Yankee Gas’ rate proceeding, which it amended in September 2011.  The final amended decision approved a regulatory ROE of 8.83 percent, based on a capital structure of 52.2 percent common equity and 47.8 percent debt, approved the inclusion in rates of costs associated with the WWL project, and also allowed for a substantial increase in annual spending for bare steel and cast iron pipe replacement, as requested by Yankee Gas.

Sources and Availability of Natural Gas Supply

PURA requires that Yankee Gas meet the needs of its firm customers under all weather conditions.  Specifically, Yankee Gas must structure its supply portfolio to meet firm customer needs under a design day scenario (defined as the coldest day in 30 years) and under a design year scenario (defined as the average of the four coldest years in the last 30 years).  Yankee Gas also owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, which is used primarily to assist Yankee Gas in meeting its supplier-of-last-resort obligations and also enables Yankee Gas to make economic purchases of natural gas, typically in periods of low demand.  Yankee Gas’ on-system stored LNG and underground storage supplies help to meet consumption needs during the coldest days of winter.  Yankee Gas obtains its interstate capacity from the three interstate pipelines that directly serve Connecticut: the Algonquin, Tennessee and Iroquois Pipelines.  Yankee Gas has long-term firm contracts for capacity on TransCanada Pipelines Limited Pipeline, Vector Pipeline, L.P., Tennessee Gas Pipeline, Iroquois Gas Transmission Pipeline, Algonquin Pipeline, Union Gas Limited, Dominion Transmission, Inc., National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission, L.P. pipelines.  Based on information currently available regarding projected growth in demand and estimates of availability of future supplies of pipeline natural gas, Yankee Gas believes that its present sources of natural gas supply are adequate to meet existing load and allow for future growth in sales.


ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SEGMENT

General

CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO, and most other New England utilities, generation owners and marketers are parties to a series of agreements that provide for coordinated planning and operation of the region's generation and transmission facilities and the rules by which they participate in the wholesale markets and acquire transmission services.  Under these arrangements, ISO-NE, a non-profit corporation whose board of directors and staff are independent of all market participants, has served since 2005 as the regional transmission organization of the New England transmission system.  ISO-NE works to ensure the reliability of the system, administers, subject to FERC approval, the independent system operator tariff, oversees the efficient and competitive functioning of the regional wholesale power market and determines which costs of all regional major transmission facilities are shared by consumers throughout New England.

Wholesale Transmission Rates

Wholesale transmission revenues are recovered through formula rates that are approved by the FERC.  Our transmission revenues are recovered from New England customers through charges that recover costs of transmission and other transmission-related services provided by all regional transmission owners, with a portion of those revenues collected from the distribution businesses of CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO.  These rates provide for the annual reconciliation and recovery or refund of estimated costs to actual costs.  The difference between estimated and actual costs is deferred for future recovery from, or refunded to, transmission customers.

FERC ROE Proceedings

Pursuant to a series of orders involving the ROE for regionally planned New England transmission projects, the FERC set the base ROE at 11.14 percent and approved incentives that increased the ROE to 12.64 percent for those projects that were in-service by the end of 2008.  Beginning in 2009, the ROE for all regional transmission investment approved by ISO-NE is 11.64 percent, which includes 50 basis points for joining a regional transmission organization.  In addition, certain projects were granted additional ROE incentives by FERC under its transmission incentive policy.  As a result, CL&P earns between 12.64 percent and 13.1 percent on its major transmission projects, NSTAR Electric earns between 11.64 percent and 12.64 percent

on its major transmission projects, and WMECO earns 12.89 percent on the Massachusetts portion of GSRP.

On September 30, 2011, several New England state attorneys general, state regulatory commissions, consumer advocates and other parties filed a joint complaint with the FERC under Sections 206 and 306 of the Federal Power Act alleging that the base ROE used in calculating formula rates for transmission service under the ISO-NE Open Access Transmission Tariff by New England transmission owners, including CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO, is unjust and unreasonable.  The complainants asserted that the current 11.14 percent rate, which became effective in 2006, is excessive due to changes in the capital markets and are seeking an order to reduce the rate, which would be effective September 30, 2011 through December 31, 2012.  In response, the New England transmission owners filed testimony and analysis based on standard FERC methodology and precedent, demonstrating that the base ROE of 11.14 percent remained just and reasonable.

On May 3, 2012, the FERC issued an order establishing hearing and settlement procedures for the complaint.  The settlement proceedings were subsequently terminated, as the parties had reached an impasse in their efforts to reach a settlement.  In August 2012, the FERC trial judge assigned to the complaint established a schedule for the trial phase of the proceedings.  Complainant testimony supporting a base ROE of 9 percent was filed on October 1, 2012.  Additional testimony was filed on October 1, 2012 by a group of Massachusetts municipal electric companies, which recommended a base ROE of 8.2 percent.  The New England transmission owners filed testimony and analysis on November 20, 2012, demonstrating they believe that the current base ROE continues to be just and reasonable.  On January 18, 2013, the FERC trial staff filed testimony and analysis recommending a base ROE of 9.66 percent based on the midpoint of their analysis with a range of reasonableness of 6.82 percent to 12.51 percent.  The New England transmission owners criticized trial staff's analysis in responsive testimony filed on February 12, 2013.  Complainants' final testimony is due February 27, 2013.  Hearings on this complaint are scheduled for May 2013 and a trial judge’s recommended decision is due in September 2013. A decision from FERC commissioners is expected in 2014.  Refunds to customers, if any, as a result of a reduction in the NU transmission companies’ base ROE would be retroactive to October 1, 2011.

On December 27, 2012, several additional parties filed a separate complaint concerning the New England transmission owners' ROE with the FERC.  This new complaint seeks to reduce the New England transmission owner’s base transmission ROE effective January 1, 2013, and to consolidate this new complaint with the joint complaint filed on September 30, 2011.  The New England transmission owners have asked the FERC to reject this new complaint, and the FERC has not yet acted on it.

As of December 31, 2012, CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, and WMECO had approximately $2.1 billion of aggregate shareholder equity invested in their transmission facilities.  As a result, each 10 basis point change in the authorized base ROE would change annual consolidated earnings by an approximate $2.1 million.  We cannot at this time predict the ultimate outcome of this proceeding or the estimated impact on CL&P’s, NSTAR Electric’s, PSNH’s, or WMECO’s respective financial position, results of operations or cash flows.


FERC Order No. 1000:

On October 25, 2012, ISO-NE and a majority of the New England transmission owners, including  CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO, made a comprehensive compliance filing as required by FERC Order No. 1000 and Order No. 1000-A, issued on July 21, 2011 and May 17, 2012, respectively.  The compliance filing first seeks to preserve the existing reliability planning process in New England, based on FERC’s previous approval of transmission owners’ rights under the Transmission Operating Agreement with ISO-NE, and the superiority of the current planning process, which has resulted in major transmission construction, large reliability benefits and reduction of market costs.  The filing also contains a new process for public policy transmission planning that incorporates opportunities for competing, non-incumbent projects and cost allocation among the supporting states.  In mid-January 2013, ISO-NE and the majority of New England transmission owners filed answers to various stakeholders that submitted protests to the compliance filing.  We cannot predict the final outcome or impact on us; however implementation of FERC’s goals in New England, including within our service territories, may expose us to competition for construction of transmission projects, additional regulatory considerations, and potential delay with respect to future transmission projects.

Transmission Projects

NEEWS:

GSRP, a project that involves the construction of 115 kV and 345 kV overhead lines by CL&P and WMECO from Ludlow, Massachusetts to Bloomfield, Connecticut, is the first, largest and most complicated project within the NEEWS family of projects.  The $718 million project is expected to be fully placed in service in late 2013.  As of December 31, 2012, the project was approximately 93 percent complete and we have placed $298 million in service.

The Interstate Reliability Project, which includes CL&P’s construction of an approximately 40-mile, 345 kV overhead line from Lebanon, Connecticut to the Connecticut-Rhode Island border in Thompson, Connecticut where it will connect to transmission enhancements being constructed by National Grid, is our second major NEEWS project.  All siting applications have been filed by CL&P and National Grid.  On January 2, 2013, the Connecticut Siting Council issued a final decision and order approving the Connecticut portion of the project.  Decisions in Rhode Island and Massachusetts are expected between the end of 2013 and early 2014.  The $218 million project is expected to be placed in service in late 2015.

Included as part of NEEWS are associated reliability related projects, approximately $70 million of which have been placed in service and approximately $30 million of which are in various phases of construction and will continue to go into service through 2013.

Through December 31, 2012, CL&P and WMECO had capitalized $212 million and $518.1 million, respectively, in costs associated with NEEWS, of which $79.4 million and $183.4 million, respectively, were capitalized in 2012.

Greater Hartford Central Connecticut Project (GHCC):

In August 2012, ISO-NE presented its preliminary needs analysis for the GHCC to the ISO-NE Planning Advisory Committee.  The results showed severe thermal overloads and voltage violations in each of the four study areas now and in the near future.  A combination of 345 kV and 115 kV transmission solutions are being considered to address these reliability concerns and a set of preferred solutions are expected to be identified by ISO-NE in 2013.  Approximately $300 million has been included in our five-year capital program for future projects being identified to enhance these reliability concerns, which have recently been confirmed by ISO-NE.

Cape Cod Reliability Projects:

Transmission projects serving Cape Cod in the Southeastern Massachusetts (SEMA) reliability region consist of an expansion and upgrade of NSTAR Electric's existing transmission infrastructure including construction of a new 345 kV transmission line that will cross the Cape Cod Canal (The Lower SEMA Transmission Project) as well as a new 115kV transmission line and other 115kV upgrades in the center of Cape Cod.  All regulatory and licensing and permitting is complete for the Lower SEMA Transmission Project.  Construction commenced in September 2012 and is expected to be completed by mid-2013.  The total estimated construction cost for the Cape Cod projects is approximately $150 million.

Northern Pass:

Northern Pass is NPT's planned HVDC transmission line from the Québec-New Hampshire border to Franklin, New Hampshire and an associated alternating current radial transmission line between Franklin and Deerfield, New Hampshire.  Northern Pass will interconnect at the Québec-New Hampshire border with a planned HQ HVDC transmission line.  Effective April 10, 2012, as a result of the merger, NUTV owned 100 percent of NPT.  NPT has identified a new route in the northern-most part of the project’s route where PSNH did not own any rights of way.  We expect to file the new route with the DOE in the first quarter of 2013, and we believe that NPT will be completed in early 2017.

We estimate the costs of the Northern Pass transmission project will be approximately $1.2 billion (including capitalized AFUDC).

Greater Boston Reliability and Boston Network Improvements:

As a result of continued analysis of the transmission needs to enhance system reliability and improve capacity in eastern Massachusetts, NSTAR Electric expects to implement a series of new transmission initiatives over the next five years.  We have included $479 million in our five-year capital program related to these initiatives.

Transmission Rate Base

Under our FERC-approved tariff, transmission projects generally enter rate base after they are placed in commercial operation.  At the end of 2012, our transmission rate base was approximately $4.2 billion, including approximately $2.2 billion at CL&P, $960 million at NSTAR Electric, $412 million at PSNH, and $620 million at WMECO.


CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

We project capital expenditures of approximately $5 billion from 2013 through 2015.  Of the $5 billion, we expect to invest approximately $2.5 billion in our electric and natural gas distribution segments, including our generation businesses, and $2.3 billion in our electric transmission segment.  In addition, we project capital expenditures of approximately $1.6 billion from 2016 through 2017 in our electric transmission segment.

FINANCING

Our credit facilities and indentures require that NU parent and certain of its subsidiaries, including CL&P, NSTAR Electric, NSTAR Gas, NSTAR LLC, PSNH, WMECO and Yankee Gas, comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants as are customarily included in such agreements, including maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization of no more than 65 percent.  All such companies currently are, and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants.

As of December 31, 2012, approximately $730 million of NU's long-term debt will be paid in the next 12 months, consisting of $550 million for NU parent, $55 million for WMECO, and $125 million for CL&P.

NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

General

CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, WMECO and several other New England electric utilities are stockholders in three inactive regional nuclear generation companies, CYAPC, MYAPC and YAEC (collectively, the Yankee Companies).  The Yankee Companies have completed the physical decommissioning of their respective generation facilities and are now engaged in the long-term storage of their spent nuclear fuel.  Each Yankee Company collects decommissioning and closure costs through wholesale FERC-approved rates charged under power purchase agreements with CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO and several other New England utilities.  These companies in turn recover these costs from their customers through state regulatory commission-approved retail rates.

The ownership percentages of CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH and WMECO in the Yankee Companies are set forth below:

Our share of the obligations to support the Yankee Companies under FERC-approved contracts is the same as the ownership percentages above.  As a result of the Merger, we consolidate the assets and obligations of CYAPC and YAEC on our consolidated balance sheet.

OTHER REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

General

We are regulated in virtually all aspects of our business by various federal and state agencies, including FERC, the SEC, and various state and/or local regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the industry and the service areas in which each of our companies operates, including the PURA, which has jurisdiction over CL&P and Yankee Gas, the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over PSNH, and the DPU, which has jurisdiction over NSTAR Electric, NSTAR Gas and WMECO.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements with respect to water quality, air quality, toxic substances, hazardous waste and other environmental matters.  Additionally, major generation and transmission facilities may not be constructed or significantly modified without a review of the environmental impact of the proposed construction or modification by the applicable federal or state agencies.  PSNH owns approximately 1,200 MW of generation assets.  In 2011, PSNH’s Clean Air Project, the installation of a wet flue gas desulphurization system at its Merrimack coal station to reduce its mercury and sulfur dioxide emissions, was placed into service.  The Clean Air Project was fully operational by mid-2012 and is designed to capture more than 80 percent of the mercury in the coal from the coal burning stations and to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 90 percent, making Merrimack one of the cleanest coal-burning plants in the nation.  The final cost of the project was approximately $421 million

.

Compliance with additional environmental laws and regulations, particularly air and water pollution control requirements, may cause changes in operations or require further investments in new equipment at existing facilities.


Water Quality Requirements

The Clean Water Act requires every “point source” discharger of pollutants into navigable waters to obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit from the EPA or state environmental agency specifying the allowable quantity and characteristics of its effluent. States may also require additional permits for discharges into state waters.  We are in the process of maintaining or renewing all required NPDES or state discharge permits in effect for our facilities.  In each of the last three years, the costs incurred by PSNH related to compliance with NPDES and state discharge permits have not been material.

On September 29, 2011, the EPA issued for public review and comment a draft renewal NPDES permit under the Clean Water Act for PSNH’s Merrimack Station.  The draft permit would require PSNH to install a closed-cycle cooling system at the station.  The EPA estimated that the net present value cost to install this system and operate it over a 20-year period would be approximately $112 million.  On October 27, 2011, the EPA extended the initial 60-day public review and comment period on the draft permit for an additional 90 days until February 28, 2012.  In its filed comments, PSNH stated that the data and studies supplied to the EPA demonstrates the fact that a closed-cycle cooling system is not warranted.  The EPA has no deadline to consider comments and to issue a final permit.  Merrimack Station can continue to operate under its current permit pending issuance of the final permit and subsequent resolution of appeals by PSNH and other parties. Due to the site specific characteristics of PSNH's other fossil fueled electric generating stations, we believe it is unlikely that there would be similar permit requirements imposed on them.

Air Quality Requirements

The Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA), as well as New Hampshire law, impose stringent requirements on emissions of SO


and NO

X

for the purpose of controlling acid rain and ground level ozone.  In addition, the CAAA address the control of toxic air pollutants.  Requirements for the installation of continuous emissions monitors and expanded permitting provisions also are included.

In December 2011, the EPA finalized the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) that require the reduction of emissions of hazardous air pollutants from new and existing coal- and oil-fired electric generating units.  Previously referred to as the Utility MACT (maximum achievable control technology) rules, it establishes emission limits for mercury, arsenic and other hazardous air pollutants from coal and oil-fired units.  MATS is the first implementation of a nationwide emissions standard for hazardous air pollutants across all electric generating units and provides utility companies with up to five years to meet the requirements.  PSNH owns and operates approximately 1,000 MW of fossil fueled electric generating units subject to MATS, including the two units at Merrimack Station, Newington Station and the two coal units at Schiller Station. We believe the Clean Air Project at our Merrimack Station, together with existing equipment, will enable the facility to meet the MATS requirements.  A review of the potential impact of MATS on our other PSNH units is not yet complete.  Additional incremental controls may be required for the two coal fired units at Schiller Station.  To date, the financial impact of this potential control has not been determined.

NU’s carbon emission inventory accounts for and reports all direct carbon dioxide (CO


) methane (CH


) nitrous oxide (N


O) sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) emissions for operations of NU and its subsidiaries in carbon dioxide equivalents.  Total carbon emissions include those from sources owned or operated by NU (Scope 1) and those that are a consequence of NU’s activities, but occur from sources owned or controlled by others, such as emissions from purchased electricity and line loss during the transmission and distribution of electricity (Scope 2).  NU emissions expressed in thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO


-e) for NU and its system companies for 2009 through 2011 are shown below.




Total CO


-e emissions (excludes CO


from biomass and biofuels)

2,984

3,976

3,390

Data was collected and calculated using the World Resource Institute greenhouse gas protocol tools except for stationary combustion emissions associated with electric generating units where more accurate Continuous Emissions Monitoring System data was available.  EPA reporting protocol was used for generation calculations where applicable.

Each of the states in which we do business also has Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) requirements, which generally require fixed percentages of our energy supply to come from renewable energy sources such as solar, hydropower, landfill gas, fuel cells and other similar sources.

New Hampshire’s RPS provision requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources.  In 2012, the total RPS obligation was 13 percent and it will ultimately reach 26.5 percent in 2025.  Energy suppliers, like PSNH, purchase RECs from producers that generate energy from a qualifying resource and use them to satisfy the RPS requirements.  PSNH also owns renewable sources and uses a portion of internally generated RECs and purchased RECs to meet its RPS obligations.  To the extent that PSNH is unable to purchase sufficient RECs, it makes up the difference between the RECs purchased and its total obligation by making an alternative compliance payment for each REC requirement for which PSNH is deficient.  The costs of both the RECs and alternative compliance payments are recovered by PSNH through its ES rates charged to customers.

The RECs generated from PSNH’s Northern Wood Power Project, a wood-burning facility, are typically sold to other energy suppliers or load carrying entities and the net proceeds from the sale of these RECs are credited back to customers.


Similarly, Connecticut's RPS statute requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources.  In 2012, the total RPS obligation was 16 percent and will ultimately reach 27 percent in 2020.  CL&P is permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through rates.

Massachusetts’ RPS program also requires electricity suppliers to meet renewable energy standards.  For 2012, the requirement was 16.6 percent, and will ultimately reach 27.1 percent in 2020.  NSTAR Electric and WMECO are permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through rates.  WMECO also owns renewable solar generation resources.  The RECs generated from WMECO’s solar units are sold to other energy suppliers and the proceeds from these sales are credited back to customers.

Hazardous Materials Regulations

Prior to the last quarter of the 20th century when environmental best practices and laws were implemented, utility companies often disposed of residues from operations by depositing or burying them on-site or disposing of them at off-site landfills or other facilities.  Typical materials disposed of include coal gasification byproducts, fuel oils, ash, and other materials that might contain polychlorinated biphenyls or that otherwise might be hazardous.  It has since been determined that deposited or buried wastes, under certain circumstances, could cause groundwater contamination or create other environmental risks.  We have recorded a liability for what we believe, based upon currently available information, is our estimated environmental investigation and/or remediation costs for waste disposal sites for which we expect to bear legal liability.  We continue to evaluate the environmental impact of our former disposal practices.  Under federal and state law, government agencies and private parties can attempt to impose liability on us for these practices.  As of December 31, 2012, the liability recorded by us for our reasonably estimable and probable environmental remediation costs for known sites needing investigation and/or remediation, exclusive of recoveries from insurance or from third parties, was approximately $39.4 million, representing 77 sites.  These costs could be significantly higher if remediation becomes necessary or when additional information as to the extent of contamination becomes available.

The most significant liabilities currently relate to future clean-up costs at former MGP facilities.  These facilities were owned and operated by our predecessor companies from the mid-1800's to mid-1900's.  By-products from the manufacture of gas using coal resulted in fuel oils, hydrocarbons, coal tar, purifier wastes, metals and other waste products that may pose risks to human health and the environment.  We, through our subsidiaries, currently have partial or full ownership responsibilities at former MGP sites that have a reserve balance of $34.5 million of the total $39.4 million as of December 31, 2012.

HWP, a wholly owned subsidiary of NU, is continuing to evaluate additional potential remediation requirements at a river site in Massachusetts containing tar deposits associated with an MGP site that HWP sold to HG&E, a municipal electric utility, in 1902.  HWP is at least partially responsible for this site and has already conducted substantial investigative and remediation activities.  HWP's share of the remediation costs related to this site is not recoverable from customers.

Electric and Magnetic Fields

For more than twenty years, published reports have discussed the possibility of adverse health effects from electric and magnetic fields (EMF) associated with electric transmission and distribution facilities and appliances and wiring in buildings and homes.  Although weak health risk associations reported in some epidemiology studies remain unexplained, most researchers, as well as numerous scientific review panels, considering all significant EMF epidemiology and laboratory studies, have concluded that the available body of scientific information does not support the conclusion that EMF affects human health.

We have closely monitored research and government policy developments for many years and will continue to do so.  In accordance with recommendations of various regulatory bodies and public health organizations, we reduce EMF associated with new transmission lines by the use of designs that can be implemented without additional cost or at a modest cost.  We do not believe that other capital expenditures are appropriate to minimize unsubstantiated risks.

Global Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emission Issues

Global climate change and greenhouse gas emission issues have received an increased focus from state governments and the federal government.  The EPA initiated a rulemaking addressing greenhouse gas emissions and, on December 7, 2009, issued a finding that concluded that greenhouse gas emissions are “air pollution” that endanger public health and welfare and should be regulated.  The largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. is the electricity generating sector.  The EPA has mandated greenhouse gas emission reporting beginning in 2011 for emissions for certain aspects of our business including stationary combustion, volume of gas supplied to large customers and fugitive emissions of SF


gas and methane.

We are continually evaluating the regulatory risks and regulatory uncertainty presented by climate change concerns.  Such concerns could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the generating facilities we own and operate as well as general utility operations.  These could include federal “cap and trade” laws, carbon taxes, fuel and energy taxes, or regulations requiring additional capital expenditures at our generating facilities.  We expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers.


Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts are each members of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cooperative effort by nine northeastern and mid-Atlantic states, to develop a regional program for stabilizing and reducing CO


emissions from fossil fueled electric generating plants.  Because CO


allowances issued by any participating state are usable across all nine RGGI state programs, the individual state CO


trading programs, in the aggregate, form one regional compliance market for CO


emissions.  A regulated power plant must hold CO


allowances equal to its emissions to demonstrate compliance at the end of a three year compliance period that began in 2012.

PSNH anticipates that its generating units will emit between two million and four million tons of CO


per year, depending on the capacity factor and the utilization of the plant, excluding emissions from the operation of PSNH’s Northern Wood Power Project.  New Hampshire legislation provides up to 1.5 million banked CO


allowances per year for PSNH’s fossil fueled electric generating plants during the 2012 through 2014 compliance period.  PSNH expects to satisfy its remaining RGGI requirements by purchasing CO


allowances at auction or in the secondary market. The cost of complying with RGGI requirements is recoverable from PSNH customers.  Current legislation provides a portion of the RGGI auction proceeds in excess of $1 per allowance will be refunded to customers.

Because none of NU’s other subsidiaries, CL&P, NSTAR Electric or WMECO, currently owns any generating assets (other than two solar photovoltaic facilities owned by WMECO, which do not emit CO


), none of them is required to acquire CO


allowances.  However, the CO


allowance costs borne by the generating facilities that are utilized by wholesale suppliers to satisfy energy supply requirements to CL&P, NSTAR Electric and WMECO will likely be included in the overall wholesale rates charged, which costs are then recoverable from customers.

Federal greenhouse gas legislation has stalled under the current administration.  Recently, climate change law has been discussed as an initiative that will be moved forward in the current Congress.  However, even without legislation, we can expect additional regulations from the EPA that could impact NU.

FERC Hydroelectric Project Licensing

Federal Power Act licenses may be issued for hydroelectric projects for terms of 30 to 50 years as determined by the FERC.  Upon the expiration of an existing license, (i) the FERC may issue a new license to the existing licensee, (ii) the United States may take over the project, or (iii) the FERC may issue a new license to a new licensee, upon payment to the existing licensee of the lesser of the fair value or the net investment in the project, plus severance damages, less certain amounts earned by the licensee in excess of a reasonable rate of return.

PSNH owns nine hydroelectric generating stations with a current claimed capability representing winter rates of approximately 71 MW, eight of which are licensed by the FERC under long-term licenses that expire on varying dates from 2017 through 2047.  PSNH and its hydroelectric projects are subject to conditions set forth in such licenses, the Federal Power Act and related FERC regulations, including provisions related to the condemnation of a project upon payment of just compensation, amortization of project investment from excess project earnings, possible takeover of a project after expiration of its license upon payment of net investment and severance damages and other matters.  PSNH is currently involved with the early stages of relicensing at its Eastman Falls Hydro Station, which is comprised of two units, totaling 6.5 MW.

Licensed operating hydroelectric projects are not generally subject to decommissioning during the license term in the absence of a specific license provision that expressly permits the FERC to order decommissioning during the license term.  However, the FERC has taken the position that under appropriate circumstances it may order decommissioning of hydroelectric projects at relicensing or may require the establishment of decommissioning trust funds as a condition of relicensing.  The FERC may also require project decommissioning during a license term if a hydroelectric project is abandoned, the project license is surrendered or the license is revoked.  PSNH is not presently encountering any of these challenges.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012, we employed a total of approximately 8,842 employees, excluding temporary employees, of which 1,787 were employed by CL&P, 1,204 were employed by PSNH, 348 were employed by WMECO, and 1,619 employees employed by NSTAR Electric & Gas Corporation provided services to NSTAR Electric.  Approximately 47.8 percent of our employees are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America or The United Steelworkers, and are covered by 13 collective bargaining agreements.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Our website address is www.nu.com.  We make available through our website a link to the SEC's EDGAR website (http://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html), at which site NU's, CL&P's, NSTAR Electric’s, PSNH's and WMECO's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports may be reviewed.  Printed copies of these reports may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Northeast Utilities, 56 Prospect Street, Hartford, CT 06103.