Item 1. Business

Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PENDING MERGER WITH NSTAR

On October 18, 2010, NU and NSTAR announced that each company’s Board of Trustees unanimously approved a Merger Agreement (the “agreement”), under which NSTAR will become a direct wholly owned subsidiary of NU.  On October 14, 2011, NU and NSTAR extended the Termination Date of the agreement, as defined therein, from October 16, 2011 to April 16, 2012.  The transaction is structured as a merger of equals in a tax-free exchange of shares.  Under the terms of the agreement, NSTAR shareholders will receive 1.312 NU common shares for each NSTAR common share that they own (the “exchange ratio”).  Following the merger, NU will provide electric and natural gas energy delivery service to approximately 3.5 million electric and natural gas customers through six regulated electric and natural gas utilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.  On March 4, 2011, NU shareholders approved the agreement, approved an increase in the number of NU common shares authorized for issuance by 155 million common shares to 380 million common shares and fixed the number of trustees at 14.  NSTAR shareholders approved the agreement on March 4, 2011.

Subject to the conditions in the agreement, our first quarterly dividend per common share paid after the closing of the merger will be increased to an amount that is at least equal, after adjusting for the exchange ratio, to NSTAR's last quarterly dividend paid prior to the closing.

Completion of the merger is subject to various customary conditions, including, among others, receipt of all required regulatory approvals.  NU and NSTAR are awaiting approvals from PURA and the DPU.

In December 2010, the Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel, supported by the Connecticut Attorney General, petitioned PURA to reconsider its earlier conclusion that it lacked jurisdiction to review the merger.  On June 1, 2011, PURA declined to change its conclusion that it lacked jurisdiction over the merger.  However, on January 18, 2012, PURA issued a decision that revised its June 1, 2011 decision.  The January 18, 2012 decision ruled that NU and NSTAR must seek approval from PURA pursuant to Connecticut law prior to completing the merger.  NU and NSTAR filed an application with PURA seeking approval of the merger on January 19, 2012.  Hearings began February 14, 2012 and PURA is scheduled to issue a final decision on April 2, 2012.

On November 24, 2010, NU and NSTAR filed a joint petition requesting the DPU’s approval of the merger and filed supplemental testimony and a net benefit analysis with the DPU on April 8, 2011, in response to the DPU’s revision of its merger standard to a “net benefits” standard.  On February 15, 2012, NU and NSTAR reached comprehensive merger-related settlement agreements with both the Massachusetts DOER and the Massachusetts AG.  The first settlement agreement was reached with both the AG and the DOER and covers a variety of rate-making and rate design issues, including a distribution rate freeze until 2016 for NSTAR Electric Company, NSTAR Gas Company and WMECO.  The second settlement agreement was reached with the DOER and covers a variety of matters impacting the advancement of Massachusetts clean energy goals established by the Green Communities Act and Global Warming Solutions Act.

Pursuant to the terms and provisions of the settlement agreements, the parties agree that the proposed merger between NU and NSTAR is consistent with the public interest and should be approved by the DPU.  However, the settlement agreements allow the Attorney General and DOER to terminate their respective agreements for any reason at any time prior to approval by the DPU.  All parties have requested that the DPU approve the merger on April 4, 2012.  If both the DPU and PURA issue acceptable decisions by that date, we expect the merger will be consummated by April 16, 2012.

All other approvals required to consummate the merger have been received.  For further information regarding regulatory approvals on the pending merger, see “Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters – Regulatory Approvals for Pending Merger with NSTAR,” in Item 7,

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,

in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

THE COMPANY

NU, headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by FERC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005.  We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly owned utility subsidiaries:

●

The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut;

●

Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire and owns generation assets used to serve customers;


●

Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of western Massachusetts and owns solar generating assets; and

●

Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut.

NU also owns certain unregulated businesses through its wholly owned subsidiary, NU Enterprises, which are included in its Parent and other companies’ results of operations.

Although NU, CL&P, PSNH and WMECO each report their financial results separately, we also include information in this report on a segment, or line-of-business, basis - the distribution segment (which also includes the generation businesses of PSNH and WMECO and our natural gas distribution business) and the transmission segment.  Our distribution segment represented approximately 53 percent of our Regulated companies’ earnings and our electric transmission segment represented approximately 47 percent.

REGULATED ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION

General

NU’s electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO, which are engaged in the distribution of electricity to retail customers in Connecticut, New Hampshire and western Massachusetts, respectively, plus the regulated electric generation businesses of PSNH and WMECO.  The following table shows the sources of 2011 electric franchise retail revenues for NU’s electric distribution companies, collectively, based on categories of customers:

A summary of changes in the electric distribution companies’ retail electric sales (GWh) for 2011, as compared to 2010, on an actual and weather normalized basis (using a 30-year average) is as follows:

Actual retail electric sales for all three electric companies were lower in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to milder weather in the summer of 2011, compared to warmer than normal weather in the summer of 2010.  In 2011, cooling degree days in Connecticut and western Massachusetts were 20.9 percent lower than 2010, and in New Hampshire, cooling degree days were 23.7 percent lower than 2010.

On a weather-normalized basis, total retail electric sales decreased slightly in 2011, as compared to 2010.  We believe the weather-normalized commercial sales for CL&P and WMECO decreased in 2011, compared to 2010, due to the slow economic recovery in these service areas.  PSNH commercial sales increased in 2011 due to one large self-generating customer who experienced multiple generation outages and relied on PSNH for energy.  Industrial sales for both CL&P and WMECO decreased in 2011, compared to 2010, due in part to weak manufacturing activity in Connecticut and western Massachusetts.  Our commercial and industrial electric sales continue to be negatively impacted by utilization of distributed generation and conservation programs.

Major Storms

On August 28, 2011, Tropical Storm Irene caused extensive damage to our distribution system resulting in incremental restoration costs of $135.6 million.  Approximately 800,000 of our 1.9 million electric distribution customers were without power at the peak of the outages, with approximately 670,000 of those customers in Connecticut.

On October 29, 2011, an unprecedented autumn snowstorm inundated our service territory with heavy snow, causing significant damage to our distribution and transmission systems resulting in incremental restoration costs of $218.5 million.  Approximately 1.2 million of our

electric distribution customers were without power at the peak of the outages, with approximately 810,000 of those customers in Connecticut, approximately 237,000 of those customers in New Hampshire, and approximately 140,000 of those customers in Massachusetts.  In terms of customer outages, this was the most severe storm in CL&P’s history, surpassing Tropical


Storm Irene; the third most severe in PSNH’s history, following a December 2008 ice storm and a February 2010 winter storm; and the most severe in WMECO's history.

CL&P recorded a pre-tax charge for a storm fund reserve of $30 million, in the fourth quarter of 2011, to provide bill credits to its residential customers who remained without power after noon on Saturday, November 5, 2011 as a result of the October snowstorm, and to provide contributions to certain Connecticut charitable organizations.  Approximately $27 million of the storm fund reserve was used to provide a one-time credit on the February 2012 bills of approximately 192,000 CL&P customers and approximately $3 million was paid to charitable organizations in December 2011.  CL&P will not seek to recover this amount in its rates.

Estimated incremental restoration costs related to the two storms are summarized in the table below and consist of costs that are deferred for future recovery and costs that are capitalized:

We believe our response to both storms was prudent and therefore we believe it is probable that CL&P, PSNH and WMECO will be allowed to recover these storm costs.  Each operating company will seek recovery of its estimated deferred storm costs through its applicable regulatory recovery process.  For further information regarding various reviews on storm response and preparedness, see “Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters – 2011 Major Storms,” in Item 7,

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

in this Annual Report on Form 10-K

.

THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY - DISTRIBUTION

CL&P’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2011, CL&P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.2 million customers in 149 cities and towns in Connecticut.  CL&P does not own any electric generation facilities.

The following table shows the sources of CL&P’s 2011 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

Rates

CL&P is subject to regulation by PURA, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.  CL&P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  CL&P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewables, CTA, SBC and other charges that are assessed on all customers.

The CTA is a charge assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring as well as various IPP contracts.  The SBC recovers costs associated with various hardship and low income programs as well as payments to municipalities to compensate them for losses in property tax revenue due to decreases in the value of electric generating facilities resulting directly from electric industry restructuring.  The CTA and SBC are annually reconciled to actual costs incurred, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

Under Connecticut law, all of CL&P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL&P remains their electric distribution company.  Under SS rates for customers with less than 500 kilowatts of demand and LRS rates for customers with 500 kilowatts of demand or greater, CL&P purchases power for those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier and passes the cost to such customers through a combined  GSC and FMCC charge on customers' bills.  The combined GSC and FMCC


charges for both types of service recover all of CL&P’s costs of procuring energy from wholesale suppliers and are adjusted periodically and reconciled semi-annually in accordance with the directives of PURA.

CL&P continues to supply approximately 35 percent of its customer load at SS or LRS rates while the other 65 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on CL&P’s delivery business or its operating income.

Distribution Rates

: On June 30, 2010, PURA issued a final order in CL&P’s most recent retail distribution rate case approving annualized distribution rate increases of $63.4 million effective July 1, 2010 and an incremental $38.5 million effective July 1, 2011.  The 2010 increase was deferred from customer bills until January 1, 2011 to coincide with the decline in revenue requirements associated with the final payment of CL&P’s RRBs.  In its decision, PURA also maintained CL&P’s authorized distribution segment regulatory ROE of 9.4 percent.  In 2011, CL&P earned a distribution segment regulatory ROE of 9.4 percent, compared to 7.9 percent in 2010.

AMI:  On August 29, 2011, PURA issued a draft decision rejecting the full deployment of AMI meters to all of CL&P’s customers at that time.  PURA instead indicated that CL&P should begin installing AMI meters at a more moderate pace once industry standards are developed and CL&P has selected a specific technology to install.  On September 2, 2011, the Commissioner of DEEP filed a motion with PURA to suspend the proceeding while the Bureau of Energy and Technology Policy conducts a process to establish an AMI policy for Connecticut, in accordance with the state law.  On September 8, 2011, PURA granted DEEP’s motion and suspended its proceedings.  No further schedule is available at this time from either DEEP or PURA.  As a result, CL&P has removed the projected AMI capital costs of approximately $257 million from its current five-year capital program.

CL&P has a transmission adjustment clause as part of its retail distribution rates, which reconciles on a semi-annual basis the transmission revenues billed to customers against the transmission costs of acquiring such services, thereby recovering all of its transmission expenses on a timely basis.

CL&P, jointly with UI, has entered into four CfDs for a total of approximately 787 MW of capacity with three generation projects being built or modified and one demand response project.  The capacity CfDs extend through 2026 and obligate the utilities to pay the difference between a set price and the value that the projects receive in the ISO-NE markets.  The contracts have terms of up to 15 years beginning in 2009 and are subject to a sharing agreement with UI, whereby UI will have a 20 percent share of the costs and benefits of these contracts.  CL&P's portion of the costs and benefits of these contracts will be paid by or refunded to CL&P's customers.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, CL&P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy to serve its SS and LRS loads from a variety of competitive sources through periodic requests for proposals.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for SS periodically for periods of up to three years to mitigate the risks associated with energy price volatility for its residential and small and medium load commercial and industrial customers.  CL&P enters into supply contracts for LRS for larger commercial and industrial customers every three months.  Currently, CL&P has contracts in place with various suppliers for all of its SS loads through 2012, and 40 percent of expected load for 2013.  CL&P’s contracts for its LRS loads extend through the second quarter of 2012.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE - DISTRIBUTION

PSNH’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2011, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 498,000 retail customers in 211 cities and towns in New Hampshire.  PSNH also owns and operates approximately 1,200 MW of primarily fossil fueled electricity generation plants.  Included in those electric generating plants is PSNH’s 50 MW wood-burning Northern Wood Power Project at its Schiller Station in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and approximately 70 MW of hydroelectric generation.  PSNH’s distribution segment includes the activities of its generation business.

The Clean Air Project, a wet scrubber project, was constructed and placed in service by PSNH at its Merrimack Station in September 2011.  The cost of the project will be recovered through PSNH's ES rates under New Hampshire law.  By November 2011, both of Merrimack station’s coal-fired units were integrated with the scrubber, and the scrubber is now reducing emissions from the units.  PSNH expects to complete remaining project construction activities in mid-2012.  We currently expect the final costs of the project to be approximately $422 million

.


The following table shows the sources of PSNH’s 2011 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

Rates

PSNH is subject to regulation by the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of facilities.

PSNH’s ES rate recovers its generation and purchased power costs from customers on a current basis and allows for an ROE of 9.81 percent on its generation investment.

Under New Hampshire law, the SCRC allows PSNH to recover its stranded costs, including above-market expenses incurred under mandated power purchase obligations and other long-term investments and obligations.  PSNH has financed a significant portion of its stranded costs through securitization by issuing RRBs secured by the right to recover these stranded costs from customers over time. PSNH recovers the costs of these RRBs through the SCRC rate.  The amount of the RRB obligation decreases each quarter and the RRBs are scheduled to be retired as of May 1, 2013.

On an annual basis, PSNH files with the NHPUC an ES/SCRC cost reconciliation filing for the preceding year.  The difference between revenues and costs are included in the ES/SCRC rate calculations and refunded to or recovered from customers in the subsequent period approved by the NHPUC.

The TCAM allows PSNH to recover on a fully reconciling basis its transmission related costs.  The TCAM is adjusted on July 1 of each year.

Distribution Rates

:  On June 28, 2010, the NHPUC approved a joint settlement of PSNH’s rate case allowing a net distribution rate increase of $45.5 million on an annualized basis effective July 1, 2010, an annualized distribution rate decrease of $2.4 million effective July 1, 2011 and projected increases of $9.5 million and $11.1 million on July 1, 2012 and 2013, respectively.  If PSNH’s 12-month trailing average regulatory ROE is greater than 10 percent, amounts over the 10 percent level will be allocated 75 percent to customers and 25 percent to PSNH.  The settlement also provided that the authorized regulatory ROE on distribution only plant will continue at the previously allowed level of 9.67 percent.  PSNH’s distribution segment regulatory ROE was 9.7 percent (including generation) in 2011, compared to 10.2 percent in 2010.

In March 2011, PSNH filed with the NHPUC to collect certain exogenous costs, step increases, and storm costs, as permitted by its 2010 rate case settlement.  These rate increases were offset by the scheduled termination, on June 30, 2011, of a rate recoupment charge, also from the 2010 rate case settlement.  During the second quarter of 2011, the NHPUC issued rate orders approving net increases in revenue requirements effective July 1, 2011 to (1) recover exogenous costs, (2) implement a step increase program for capital additions and the reliability enhancement program, and (3) allow for the recovery of the 2010 windstorm costs.  Together with the scheduled termination of the rate recoupment charge, the net impact of these rate changes was a $2.4 million decrease in rates effective July 1, 2011.

Under New Hampshire law, all of PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers, with PSNH providing default energy service under its ES rate for those customers who do not elect to use a third party supplier.  Prior to 2009, PSNH experienced only a minimal amount of customer migration.  However, customer migration levels began to increase significantly in 2009 as energy costs decreased from their historic high levels and competitive energy suppliers with more pricing flexibility were able to offer electricity supply at lower prices than PSNH.  By the end of 2011, approximately 2.6 percent of all of PSNH’s customers (approximately 36 percent of load), mostly large commercial and industrial customers, had switched to competitive energy suppliers.  The increased level of migration has caused an increase in the ES rate, as fixed costs of PSNH’s generation assets must be spread over a smaller group of customers and lower sales volume.  The customers that did not choose a third party supplier, predominately residential and small commercial and industrial customers, are now paying a larger proportion of these fixed costs. On July 26, 2011, the NHPUC ordered PSNH to file a rate proposal that would mitigate the impact of customer migration expected to occur when the ES rate is higher than market prices.  On January 26, 2012, the NHPUC rejected the PSNH proposal and ordered PSNH to file a new proposal, no later than June 30, 2012, addressing certain issues raised by the NHPUC.

PSNH cannot predict if the upward pressure on ES rates due to customer migration will continue into the future, as future migration levels are dependent on market prices and supplier alternatives.  If future market prices once more exceed the average ES rate level, some or all of these customers on third party supply may migrate back to PSNH.

On November 22, 2011, the NHPUC opened a docket to consider the in-service status of the Clean Air Project, the appropriate rate treatment, PSNH’s prudence in construction of the project and the propriety of setting temporary rates.  Hearings on temporary rates are scheduled for March 12 and 13, 2012.

Following hearings on temporary rates, it is expected that recovery of costs of the Clean Air


Project will begin during the second quarter of 2012.  No formal schedule

for the comprehensive prudence review or for permanent rates has been established.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

During 2011, approximately 72 percent of PSNH’s load was met through its own generation, long-term power supply provided pursuant to orders of the NHPUC, and contracts with third parties.  The remaining 28 percent of PSNH's load was met by short-term (less than one year) purchases and spot purchases in the competitive New England wholesale power market.  PSNH expects to meet its load requirements in 2012 in a similar manner.  Included in the 72 percent above are PSNH obligations to purchase power from approximately two dozen IPPs, the output of which it either uses to serve its customer load or sells into the ISO-NE market.

WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS ELECTRIC COMPANY - DISTRIBUTION

WMECO’s distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to residential, commercial and industrial customers.  As of December 31, 2011, WMECO furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 206,000 retail customers in 59 cities and towns in the western region of Massachusetts.  WMECO does not own any fossil or hydro-electric generating facilities and purchases its energy requirements from competitive suppliers.  In 2009, pursuant to the Massachusetts Green Communities Act, WMECO was authorized to install 6 MW of solar energy generation in its service territory.  In October 2010, WMECO completed development of a 1.8 MW solar generation facility on a site in Pittsfield, Massachusetts and in December 2011 completed development of a 2.3 MW solar generation facility in Springfield, Massachusetts.  WMECO is continuing to evaluate sites suitable for development of the remaining 1.9 MW of the authorized 6 MW of capacity.  WMECO will sell all energy and other products from its solar generation facilities into the ISO-NE market.

The following table shows the sources of WMECO’s 2011 electric franchise retail revenues based on categories of customers:

Rates

WMECO is subject to regulation by the DPU, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.  WMECO's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  Massachusetts utilities are entitled under state law to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their reasonable operation and capital costs, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests.

Under Massachusetts law, all of WMECO's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while WMECO remains their distribution company.  WMECO purchases power from competitive suppliers for, and passes through the cost to, those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier (basic service).  Basic service charges are adjusted and reconciled on an annual basis.  Most of WMECO's residential and small commercial and industrial customers have continued to buy their power from WMECO at basic service rates.  A greater proportion of large commercial and industrial customers have switched to a competitive energy supplier.

WMECO continues to supply approximately 53 percent of its customer load at basic service rates while the other 47 percent of its customer load has migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on WMECO’s delivery business or its operating income.

The DPU has approved a number of individual cost and revenue requirement recovery mechanisms over the years. These individual mechanisms recover costs associated with providing energy, retail transmission of energy, administrative costs to procure energy, bad debt costs associated with providing energy, company investments in renewable energy such as solar generation, and credits given to customers who generate renewable energy.  There is also a mechanism for the recovery of stranded generation costs as a result of the 1999 electric restructuring act in Massachusetts.  Additionally the DPU has provided cost and revenue requirement recovery mechanisms for certain operating expenses.  These individual mechanisms include recovery of employee pension and post-retirement health benefit costs, certain state government regulatory review, energy efficiency programs, customer arrearage forgiveness programs and low income customer discounts.  In WMECO’s January 31, 2011 rate decision, WMECO received approval for a revenue decoupling reconciliation mechanism that provides assurance that WMECO will recover a DPU pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue to manage all other distribution operating expenses and earn a level of return on its capital investment. The reconciliation mechanisms noted above are trued up on an annual basis producing deferrals for future recovery.


Distribution Rates:

On January 31, 2011, the DPU issued a final decision in WMECO’s July 2010 rate application, authorizing a $16.8 million annualized rate increase in distribution revenues and an allowed regulatory ROE of 9.6 percent effective February 1, 2011.  The DPU also authorized WMECO’s request to recover certain active hardship account balances, the recovery of certain storm costs over five years and a full decoupling mechanism, whereby actual revenue billed by WMECO is reconciled with WMECO’s target revenue on an annual basis.  The DPU did not authorize rate recovery of a proposed $20 million average increase in WMECO’s capital spending plan.  WMECO’s distribution segment regulatory ROE was 9 percent in 2011, compared to 4.6 percent in 2010.

WMECO is subject to service quality (SQ) metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and WMECO pays any charges incurred for failure to meet such metrics to customers.  WMECO will not be required to pay an assessment charge for its 2011 performance results as WMECO performed at or above its target for all of its SQ metrics in 2011.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, WMECO does not own any generation assets (other than its recently developed solar generation) and purchases its energy requirements from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals issued periodically, consistent with DPU regulations.  WMECO enters into supply contracts for basic service for 50 percent of its residential and small commercial and industrial customers twice a year for twelve month terms.  WMECO enters into supply contracts for basic service for 100 percent of large commercial and industrial customers every three months.

REGULATED GAS DISTRIBUTION – YANKEE GAS SERVICES COMPANY

Yankee Gas operates the largest natural gas distribution system in Connecticut as measured by number of customers (approximately 208,000 customers in 71 cities and towns), and size of service territory (2,187 square miles).  Total throughput (sales and transportation) in 2011 was approximately 55 Bcf.  Yankee Gas provides firm natural gas sales service to retail customers who require a continuous natural gas supply throughout the year, such as residential customers who rely on gas for heating, hot water and cooking needs, and commercial and industrial customers who choose to purchase natural gas from Yankee Gas.  Yankee Gas also owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, which is used primarily to assist it in meeting its supplier-of-last-resort obligations and also enables it to make economic purchases of natural gas, which typically occur during periods of low demand.

Retail natural gas service in Connecticut is partially unbundled: residential customers in Yankee Gas’ service territory buy gas supply and delivery only from Yankee Gas while commercial and industrial customers may choose their gas suppliers.  Yankee Gas offers firm transportation service to its commercial and industrial customers who purchase gas from sources other than Yankee Gas as well as interruptible transportation and interruptible gas sales service to those commercial and industrial customers that have the capability to switch from natural gas to an alternative fuel on short notice, for whom Yankee Gas can interrupt service during peak demand periods or at any other time to maintain distribution system integrity.

The following table shows the sources of 2011 natural gas operating revenues based on categories of customers:

A summary of firm natural gas sales in million cubic feet for Yankee Gas for 2011 and 2010 and the percentage changes in 2011, as compared to 2010 on an actual and weather normalized basis (using a 30-year average) is as follows:

(1)

The 2010 sales volumes for commercial customers have been adjusted to conform to current year presentation.

(2)

Special contracts are unique to the customers who take service under such an arrangement and generally specify the amount of distribution revenue to be paid to Yankee Gas regardless of the customers’ usage.

Our firm natural gas sales are subject to many of the same influences as are our retail electric sales, but have benefitted from migration of interruptible customers switching to firm service rates and the addition of gas-fired distributed generation in Yankee Gas' service territory.  Actual firm natural gas sales in 2011 were 8 percent higher than 2010.  Colder weather, especially in the first quarter of 2011,


was a contributing factor to the higher sales.  Heating degree days for 2011 in Connecticut were 6.4 percent higher than 2010.  On a weather normalized basis, actual firm natural gas sales in 2011 were 5.1 percent higher than 2010.

In November 2011, Yankee Gas completed construction of its WWL project, a 16-mile natural gas pipeline between Waterbury and Wallingford, Connecticut and an increase of vaporization output of its LNG plant.  Construction on the project began in April 2010 and total costs were approximately $54 million.

Rates

Yankee Gas is subject to regulation by PURA, which has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, accounting procedures, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service, affiliate transactions, management efficiency and construction and operation of distribution, production and storage facilities.

Distribution Rates:

On June 29, 2011 PURA issued a final decision in Yankee Gas’ rate proceeding, which it amended in September 2011.  The final amended decision approved a regulatory ROE of 8.83 percent, based on a capital structure of 52.2 percent common equity and 47.8 percent debt, approved the inclusion in rates of costs associated with the WWL project, and also allowed for a substantial increase in annual spending for bare steel and cast iron pipe replacement, as requested by Yankee Gas.  Yankee Gas’ regulatory ROE was 9.3 percent in 2011, as compared to 8.6 percent in 2010.

Sources and Availability of Natural Gas Supply

PURA requires that Yankee Gas meet the needs of its firm customers under all weather conditions.  Specifically, Yankee Gas must structure its supply portfolio to meet firm customer needs under a design day scenario (defined as the coldest day in 30 years) and under a design year scenario (defined as the average of the four coldest years in the last 30 years).  Yankee Gas also owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, which is used primarily to assist the company in meeting its supplier-of-last-resort obligations and also enables Yankee Gas to make economic purchases of natural gas, typically in periods of low demand.  Yankee Gas’ on-system stored LNG and underground storage supplies help to meet consumption needs during the coldest days of winter.  Yankee Gas obtains its interstate capacity from the three interstate pipelines that directly serve Connecticut: the Algonquin, Tennessee and Iroquois Pipelines.  Yankee Gas has long-term firm contracts for capacity on TransCanada Pipelines Limited Pipeline, Vector Pipeline, L.P., Tennessee Gas Pipeline, Iroquois Gas Transmission Pipeline, Algonquin Pipeline, Union Gas Limited, Dominion Transmission, Inc., National Fuel Gas Supply Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission, L.P. pipelines.  Yankee Gas considers these transportation arrangements adequate for its needs.

ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION

General

CL&P, PSNH and WMECO and most other New England utilities, generation owners and marketers are parties to a series of agreements that provide for coordinated planning and operation of the region's generation and transmission facilities and the rules by which they participate in the wholesale markets and acquire transmission services.  Under these arrangements, ISO-NE, a non-profit corporation whose board of directors and staff are independent of all market participants, has served since 2005 as the regional transmission organization of the New England transmission system.  ISO-NE works to ensure the reliability of the system, administers, subject to FERC approval, the independent system operator tariff, oversees the efficient and competitive functioning of the regional wholesale power market and determines which costs of all regional major transmission facilities are shared by consumers throughout New England.

Wholesale Transmission Rates

Wholesale transmission revenues are recovered through formula rates that are approved by the FERC.  Our transmission revenues are recovered from New England customers through charges that recover costs of transmission and other transmission-related services provided by all regional transmission owners, with a portion of those revenues collected from the distribution segments of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO.  These rates provide for the annual reconciliation and recovery or refund of estimated costs to actual costs.  The difference between estimated and actual costs is deferred for future recovery from, or refunded to, transmission customers.

FERC ROE Proceedings

Pursuant to a series of orders involving the ROE for regionally planned New England transmission projects, the FERC set the base ROE at 11.14 percent and approved incentives that increased the ROE to 12.64 percent for those projects that were in-service by the end of 2008.  Beginning in 2009, the ROE for all regional transmission investment approved by ISO-NE is 11.64 percent, which includes the 50 basis points for joining the regional transmission organization.  In addition, certain projects were granted additional ROE incentives by FERC under its transmission incentive policy.  As a result, CL&P earns between 12.64 percent and 13.1 percent on its major transmission projects and WMECO earns 12.89 percent on the Massachusetts portion of GSRP.  All appeals of FERC's incentive ROE orders for New England transmission owners have been denied.

On September 30, 2011, several New England state attorneys general, state regulatory commissions, consumer advocates and other parties filed a joint complaint with the FERC under Sections 206 and 306 of the Federal Power Act alleging that the base ROE used in calculating formula rates for transmission service under the ISO-NE Open Access Transmission Tariff by New England transmission


owners, including CL&P, PSNH and WMECO, is unjust and unreasonable.  The complainants asserted that the current 11.14 percent rate, which became effective in 2006, is excessive due to changes in the capital markets, and seek an order to reduce the rate to 9.2 percent, effective September 30, 2011.

On October 20, 2011, the New England transmission owners responded to the complaint, asking FERC to dismiss the complaint on the basis that the complainants failed to carry their burden of proof under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act to demonstrate that the existing base ROE is unjust and unreasonable.  The New England transmission owners included testimony and analysis reflecting a base ROE of 11.2 percent using FERC’s methodology and precedents, which they believe demonstrates that the current base ROE of 11.14 percent remains just and reasonable.

As of December 31, 2011, CL&P, PSNH, and WMECO had approximately $1.5 billion of aggregate shareholder equity invested in their transmission facilities.  As a result, each 10 basis point change in the authorized base ROE would change annual consolidated earnings by approximately $1.5 million.

FERC has not issued an order in this proceeding and NU cannot predict when this proceeding will be concluded, the outcome of this proceeding, or its impact on NU’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Transmission Projects

NEEWS

CL&P and WMECO are continuing to develop and construct the NEEWS project, which is comprised of GSRP, the Interstate Reliability Project and the Central Connecticut Reliability Project, and is estimated to cost $1.3 billion in the aggregate.

CL&P and WMECO commenced substation construction on GSRP, the largest project in NEEWS, in December 2010 and began full construction in Connecticut and Massachusetts in late 2011.  GSRP was approximately 50 percent complete as of December 31, 2011 and we expect it to be placed in service in late 2013 at a cost of approximately $718 million.

CL&P is designing and building the Interstate Reliability Project in coordination with National Grid USA, whose segment of this phase will interconnect with CL&P’s at the Connecticut-Rhode Island border.  In August 2010, ISO-NE reaffirmed the need for the Interstate Reliability Project.  CL&P filed its siting applications in late 2011 and approvals are expected in late 2013, with construction commencing in late 2013 or early 2014.  We expect the project will be placed in service in late 2015 and that CL&P's share of the costs will be $218 million.

The Central Connecticut Reliability Project, which involves construction of a new 345 KV overhead line from Bloomfield, Connecticut to Watertown, Connecticut at a cost of $301 million, is the third major part of NEEWS.  In March 2011, ISO-NE announced that it would review the Central Connecticut Reliability Project along with other central Connecticut projects as part of a study known as the Greater Hartford Central Connecticut Study.  We expect ISO-NE to issue preliminary need results and transmission solutions in 2013.

Included as part of NEEWS are expenditures for associated reliability related projects, all of which have received siting approval and most of which are under construction.  These projects began going into service in 2010 and will continue to go into service through 2013.

Northern Pass Transmission Line Project

NPT is a limited liability company jointly owned by NU and NSTAR to construct, own and operate the Northern Pass transmission line, a planned HVDC transmission line from the Québec-New Hampshire border to Franklin, New Hampshire and an associated alternating current radial transmission line between Franklin and Deerfield, New Hampshire.  Northern Pass will interconnect at the Québec/New Hampshire border with a planned HVDC transmission line being developed by HQ.  NUTV, a subsidiary of NU, holds a 75 percent interest in NPT, with NSTAR Transmission Ventures, Inc., a subsidiary of NSTAR, holding the remaining 25 percent.  We currently estimate that our 75 percent share of the costs to build the Northern Pass transmission project will be approximately $830 million out of total expected costs of approximately $1.1 billion (including capitalized AFUDC).

Under a TSA between NPT and Hydro Renewable Energy, a subsidiary of HQ, NPT will sell to Hydro Renewable Energy 1,200 MW of firm electric transmission rights over the Northern Pass for a 40-year term and charge cost-based rates.  The projected cost-of-service calculation includes an ROE of 12.56 percent through the construction phase of the project and, during commercial operation, the ROE will be equal to the ISO-NE regional rates base ROE (currently 11.14 percent) plus 1.42 percent.  During the development and construction phases under the TSA, NPT will record non-cash AFUDC earnings.  On March 18, 2011, the NHPUC filed a request with the FERC seeking rehearing on the ROE granted to Northern Pass.  On August 5, 2011, FERC denied the request by the NHPUC.

In October 2010, NPT filed the Northern Pass project design with ISO-NE for technical approval and filed a presidential permit application with the DOE seeking permission for NPT to construct and maintain facilities that cross the U.S. border.  The DOE held seven meetings in New Hampshire in mid-March 2011 seeking public comment.  In response to concerns raised at these meetings, NPT revised its application to request additional time during the public comment period to allow NPT to review alternative routes.  On June 15, 2011, the DOE extended the scoping comment period for at least forty-five days after NPT files an alternative route with the DOE.  After the final route has been identified, certain environmental studies will need to be completed in order to obtain DOE permits. We expect to commence construction in 2014 and place the project in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.


On February 8, 2012, the New Hampshire legislature passed a bill that could potentially prohibit the use of eminent domain for the development of any “non-reliability“ electric transmission projects such as Northern Pass.  The bill is currently awaiting action by the Governor.  We are reviewing the potential impact of the bill on NPT, should it be enacted, including its effect on the project's route, cost and schedule.  We believe that NPT will be able to acquire the necessary rights along an acceptable route, which would make it feasible to construct the project even if the bill is enacted.  Given the ultimate design needs of the project, along with siting and permit requirements, which will vary depending upon the route ultimately selected, there is a possibility for further delay in commencement of construction.

Other Transmission Transactions

On May 31, 2011, CL&P and the Connecticut Transmission Municipal Electric Energy Cooperative (CTMEEC), a non-profit municipal joint action transmission entity formed by several Connecticut municipal electric utilities, completed the sale by CL&P to CTMEEC of a segment of high voltage transmission lines built by CL&P in the town of Wallingford, Connecticut.  The assets were sold at their net book value of $42.5 million, plus reimbursement of closing costs.  CL&P is operating and maintaining the lines under an agreement with CTMEEC.  The transaction did not include the transfer of land or equipment unrelated to electric transmission service.

Transmission Rate Base

Under our FERC-approved tariff, transmission projects generally enter rate base after they are placed in commercial operation.  At the end of 2011, our transmission rate base was approximately $2.96 billion, including approximately $2.1 billion at CL&P, $390 million at PSNH and $467 million at WMECO.  We forecast that our total transmission rate base will grow to approximately $4.8 billion by the end of 2016, including approximately $804 million at NPT.

CONSTRUCTION AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

The principal focus of our construction and capital improvement program is maintaining, upgrading and expanding our existing electric transmission, distribution and generation systems and our natural gas distribution system.  Our consolidated capital expenditures in 2011 totaled approximately $1.2 billion, essentially all of which was expended by the Regulated companies.  The 2012 capital expenditures of these companies are estimated to total approximately $1.14 billion, $500 million by CL&P, $212 million by PSNH, $251 million by WMECO, $40 million by NPT, and $94 million by Yankee Gas.  This capital budget includes anticipated costs for all committed capital projects (i.e., generation, transmission, distribution, environmental compliance and others) and those we expect to become committed projects in 2012.

In 2011, CL&P’s transmission capital expenditures totaled $128.6 million, and its distribution capital expenditures totaled $338.5 million.  For 2012, CL&P projects transmission capital expenditures of $174 million and distribution capital expenditures of $315 million.  During the period 2012 through 2016, CL&P plans to invest approximately $837 million in transmission projects, the majority of which will be for NEEWS, and $1.42 billion on distribution projects.  In addition, CL&P expects to spend $11 million on regulated generation in 2012, and a total of $45 million during the period 2012 through 2016.  If all of the transmission and distribution projects are built as proposed, CL&P’s rate base for transmission assets is projected to increase from approximately $2.1 billion at the end of 2011 to approximately $2.45 billion by the end of 2016, and its rate base for electric distribution is projected to increase from approximately $2.6 billion to approximately $3.11 billion over the same period.

In 2011, PSNH's transmission capital expenditures totaled $68.1 million, its distribution capital expenditures totaled $98.8 million and its generation capital expenditures totaled $124.8 million.  For 2012, PSNH projects transmission capital expenditures of $66 million, distribution capital expenditures of $112 million and generation capital expenditures of $34 million.  During the period 2012 through 2016, PSNH plans to spend $468 million on transmission projects, $560 million on distribution projects, and $159 million on generation projects.  If all of the transmission, distribution and generation projects are built as proposed, PSNH’s rate base for electric transmission is projected to increase from $390 million at the end of 2011 to $721 million by the end of 2016, and its rate base for distribution and generation assets is projected to increase from approximately $1.6 billion to approximately $1.76 billion over the same period.

In 2011, WMECO's transmission capital expenditures totaled $236.8 million, its distribution capital expenditures totaled $41.8 million and solar generation expenditures were $11.7 million.  In 2012, WMECO projects transmission capital expenditures of $193 million, distribution capital expenditures of $39 million and expenditures of $19 million on solar generation.  During the period 2012 through 2016, WMECO plans to spend $510 million on transmission projects, with the bulk of that amount to be spent on GSRP, $199 million on distribution projects and $49 million on solar generation.  If all of the transmission, distribution and generation projects are built as proposed, WMECO’s rate base for electric transmission is projected to increase from $467 million at the end of 2011 to $814 million by the end of 2016 and its rate base for distribution and generation assets is projected to increase from $441 million to $498 million over the same period.

In addition, we project transmission capital expenditures by NPT of $40 million in 2012 and during the period 2012 through 2016, we project NPT to spend $812 million on Northern Pass.

In 2011, Yankee Gas capital expenditures totaled $102.8 million.  For 2012, Yankee Gas projects total capital expenditures of $94 million, of which $26 million is expected to be related to basic business activities such as relocation of conflicting gas facilities and the purchase of meters, tools and information technology, $48 million related to reliability improvements, and $20 million for load growth and new business requests.  During the period 2012 through 2016, Yankee Gas plans on making $564 million of capital expenditures.  Future capital spending will likely be affected by price differences between the cost of natural gas and home heating oil, natural gas supply, new home construction, road reconstruction, regulatory mandates and business requirements.  Excluding non-recurring major


projects, NU expects that approximately 25 percent of Yankee Gas’ capital expenditures over the 2012 through 2016 period will be related to basic business activities, approximately 30 percent will be related to load growth and new business, and approximately 45 percent will be related to reliability initiatives and infrastructure.  If all of Yankee Gas’ projects are built as proposed, Yankee Gas’ rate base is projected to increase from $754 million at the end of 2011 to approximately $1.04 billion by the end of 2016.

FINANCING

On April 1, 2011, CL&P completed the remarketing of $62 million of tax-exempt secured PCRBs, which mature on May 1, 2031.  The PCRBs carry a coupon rate of 1.25 percent until April 1, 2012, at which time CL&P expects to remarket the bonds.

On May 26, 2011, PSNH issued $122 million of first mortgage bonds with a coupon rate of 4.05 percent and a maturity date of June 1, 2021, and used the proceeds to redeem $119.8 million of tax-exempt 1992 Series D and 1993 Series E PCRBs, each with a maturity date of May 1, 2021 and a coupon rate of 6 percent.  The refinancing is expected to reduce PSNH’s interest costs by approximately $2.2 million in 2012.

On September 13, 2011, PSNH issued $160 million of first mortgage bonds, due September 1, 2021, with a coupon rate of 3.20 percent, and on September 16, 2011, WMECO issued $100 million of senior unsecured notes due September 15, 2021 carrying a coupon rate of 3.50 percent.

In addition, on October 24, 2011, CL&P issued $120.5 million of PCRBs carrying a coupon rate of 4.375 percent that will mature on September 1, 2028, and $125 million of PCRBs carrying a coupon of 1.25 percent that mature on September 1, 2028 and are subject to mandatory tender on September 3, 2013.  The proceeds of CL&P’s issuances were used to refund $245.5 million of PCRBs that carried a coupon rate of 5.85 percent and had a maturity date of September 1, 2028.  The refinancing is expected to reduce CL&P’s interest costs by approximately $7.5 million in 2012.

Our credit facilities and indentures require that NU parent and certain of its subsidiaries, including CL&P, PSNH, WMECO and Yankee Gas, comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants as are customarily included in such agreements, including maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization of no more than 65 percent.  All such companies currently are, and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants.

In 2012, in addition to remarketing the $62 million PCRBs at CL&P, NU parent has a debt maturity on April 1, 2012 of $263 million, which NU expects to refinance with proceeds of a new debt issuance, and Yankee Gas has an annual sinking fund requirement of $4.3 million.  Also, in 2012, we expect to issue $150 million of long-term debt comprised of $100 million by WMECO and $50 million by Yankee Gas in the second half of 2012.

NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

General

CL&P, PSNH, WMECO and several other New England electric utilities are stockholders in three inactive regional nuclear generation companies, CYAPC, MYAPC and YAEC (collectively, the Yankee Companies).  The Yankee Companies have completed the physical decommissioning of their respective generation facilities and are now engaged in the long-term storage of their spent nuclear fuel.  Each Yankee Company collects decommissioning and closure costs through wholesale FERC-approved rates charged under power purchase agreements with CL&P, PSNH and WMECO and several other New England utilities.  These companies in turn recover these costs from their customers through state regulatory commission-approved retail rates.

The ownership percentages of CL&P, PSNH and WMECO in the Yankee Companies are set forth below:

Our share of the obligations to support the Yankee Companies under FERC-approved contracts is the same as the ownership percentages above.

OTHER REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

General

We are regulated in virtually all aspects of our business by various federal and state agencies, including FERC, the SEC, and various state and/or local regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the industry and the service areas in which each of our companies operates, including the PURA, which has jurisdiction over CL&P and Yankee Gas, the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over PSNH, and the DPU, which has jurisdiction over WMECO.


Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements with respect to water quality, air quality, toxic substances, hazardous waste and other environmental matters.  Additionally, major generation and transmission facilities may not be constructed or significantly modified without a review of the environmental impact of the proposed construction or modification by the applicable federal or state agencies.  PSNH owns approximately 1,200 MW of generation assets.  In 2011, PSNH’s Clean Air Project, the installation of a wet flue gas desulphurization system at its Merrimack coal station to reduce its mercury and sulfur dioxide emissions, was placed into service.  The Clean Air Project is expected to be fully operational in mid-2012 and is designed to capture more than 80 percent of the mercury in the coal from the coal burning stations and to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 90 percent, making Merrimack one of the cleanest coal-burning plants in the nation.  We expect the final costs of the project to be approximately $422 million

.

Compliance with additional environmental laws and regulations, particularly air and water pollution control requirements, may cause changes in operations or require further investments in new equipment at existing facilities.

Water Quality Requirements

The Clean Water Act requires every “point source” discharger of pollutants into navigable waters to obtain a NPDES permit from the EPA or state environmental agency specifying the allowable quantity and characteristics of its effluent.  States may also require additional permits for discharges into state waters.  We are in the process of obtaining or renewing all required NPDES or state discharge permits in effect for our facilities.  In each of the last three years, the costs incurred by PSNH related to compliance with NPDES and state discharge permits have not been material.

On September 29, 2011, the EPA issued for public review and comment a draft renewal NPDES permit under the Clean Water Act for PSNH’s Merrimack Station.  The draft permit would require PSNH to install a closed-cycle cooling system at the station.  The EPA estimated that the net present value cost to install this system and operate it over a 20-year period would be approximately $112 million.  On October 27, 2011, the EPA extended the initial 60-day public review and comment period on the draft permit for an additional 90 days until February 28, 2012.  The EPA has no deadline to consider comments and to issue a final permit Merrimack Station can continue to operate under its current permit pending issuance of the final permit and subsequent resolution of appeals by PSNH and other parties.  Due to the site specific characteristics of PSNH's other fossil fueled electric generating stations, we believe it is unlikely that they would have similar permit requirements imposed on them.

Air Quality Requirements

The Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA), as well as New Hampshire law, impose stringent requirements on emissions of SO


and NO

X

for the purpose of controlling acid rain and ground level ozone.  In addition, the CAAA address the control of toxic air pollutants.  Requirements for the installation of continuous emissions monitors and expanded permitting provisions also are included.

In December 2011, the EPA finalized the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) that require the reduction of emissions of hazardous air pollutants from new and existing coal- and oil-fired electric generating units.  Commonly called the Utility MACT (maximum achievable control technology) rules, it establishes emission limits for mercury, arsenic and other hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired units.  MATS is the first implementation of a nationwide emissions standard for hazardous air pollutants across all electric generating units and provides utility companies with up to five years to meet the requirements.  PSNH owns and operates approximately 1,000 MW of fossil fueled electric generating units subject to MATS, including the Merrimack, Newington and Schiller stations.  We believe the Clean Air Project at our Merrimack Station, together with existing equipment, will enable the facility to meet the MATS requirements.  A review of the potential impact of MATS on our other PSNH units is not yet complete.  Additional controls may be required at these facilities.  To date, the financial impact of these potential controls has not been determined.

In New Hampshire, the Multiple Pollutant Reduction Program capped NO

X

, SO


and CO


emissions beginning in 2007.  In addition, a 2006 New Hampshire law required PSNH to install a wet flue gas desulphurization system to reduce mercury emissions of its coal fired plants by at least 80 percent from all PSNH coal fired stations (with the co-benefit of reductions in SO


emissions as well).  The Clean Air Project enables PSNH to satisfy this requirement.

In addition, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts are each members of the RGGI, a cooperative effort by nine northeastern and mid-Atlantic states, to develop a regional program for stabilizing and reducing CO


emissions from fossil fueled electric generating plants.  Because CO


allowances issued by any participating state are usable across all nine RGGI state programs, the individual state CO


trading programs, in the aggregate, form one regional compliance market for CO


emissions.  A regulated power plant must hold CO


allowances equal to its emissions to demonstrate compliance at the end of a three-year compliance period that began in 2009.

Because neither CL&P nor WMECO currently own any generating assets (other than the solar facilities owned by WMECO, which do not emit CO


), neither is required to acquire CO


allowances; however, the CO


allowance costs borne by generators that provide energy supply to CL&P and WMECO will likely be included in wholesale rates charged to them, which costs are then recoverable from customers.


NU’s carbon emission inventory accounts for and reports all direct carbon dioxide (CO


) methane (CH


) nitrous oxide (N


O) sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) emissions for operations of NU and its subsidiaries in carbon dioxide equivalents.  Total carbon emissions include those from sources owned or operated by NU (Scope 1) and those that are a consequence of NU’s activities, but occur from sources owned or controlled by others, such as emissions from purchased electricity and line loss during the transmission and distribution of electricity (Scope 2).  NU emissions expressed in thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO


-e) for NU and its system companies for 2008 through 2010 are shown below.




Total CO


-e emissions (excludes CO


from biomass and biofuels)

3,976

3,930

5,131

Data was collected and calculated using the World Resource Institute greenhouse gas protocol tools except for stationary combustion emissions associated with electric generating units where more accurate Continuous Emissions Monitoring System data was available.  EPA reporting protocol was used for generation calculations where applicable.

PSNH anticipates that its generating units will emit between four million and five million tons of CO


per year excluding emissions from the operation of PSNH’s Northern Wood Power Project.  Under the RGGI formula, the Northern Wood Power Project decreased PSNH’s responsibility for reducing fossil-fired CO


emissions by approximately 425,000 tons per year, or almost ten percent.  New Hampshire legislation provided up to 2.5 million banked CO


allowances per year for PSNH’s fossil fueled electric generating plants during the 2009 through 2011 compliance period.  These banked CO


allowances initially comprised approximately one-half of the yearly CO


allowances required for PSNH’s generating plants for compliance with RGGI.  Such banked allowances will decrease over time.  PSNH expects to satisfy its remaining RGGI requirements by purchasing CO


allowances at auction or in the secondary market.  The cost of complying with RGGI requirements is recoverable from PSNH customers.

Each of the states in which we do business also has RPS requirements, which generally require fixed percentages of our energy supply to come from renewable energy sources such as solar, hydropower, landfill gas, fuel cells and other similar sources.

New Hampshire’s RPS provision requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources.  In 2011, the total RPS obligation was 9.58 percent and it will ultimately reach 23.8 percent in 2025.  Energy suppliers, like PSNH, purchase RECs from producers that generate energy from a qualifying resource and use them to satisfy the RPS requirements.  PSNH also owns renewable sources and uses a portion of internally generated RECs and purchased RECs to meet its RPS obligations.  To the extent that PSNH is unable to purchase sufficient RECs, it makes up the difference between the RECs purchased and its total obligation by making an alternative compliance payment for each REC requirement for which PSNH is deficient.  The costs of both the RECs and alternative compliance payments are recovered by PSNH through its ES rates charged to customers.

The RECs generated from PSNH’s Northern Wood Power Project, a wood-burning facility, are sold to other energy suppliers and the proceeds from the sale of these RECs is credited back to customers.

Similarly, Connecticut's RPS statute requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources.  In 2011, the total RPS obligation was 15 percent and will ultimately reach 27 percent in 2020.  CL&P is permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through rates.

Massachusetts’ RPS program also requires electricity suppliers to meet renewable energy standards.  For 2011, the requirement was 15.1 percent, and will ultimately reach 27.1 percent in 2020.  WMECO is permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through rates.

Hazardous Materials Regulations

Prior to the last quarter of the 20

th

century when environmental best practices and laws were implemented, utility companies often disposed of residues from operations by depositing or burying them on-site or disposing of them at off-site landfills or other facilities.  Typical materials disposed of include coal gasification byproducts, fuel oils, ash, and other materials that might contain polychlorinated biphenyls or that otherwise might be hazardous.  It has since been determined that deposited or buried wastes, under certain circumstances, could cause groundwater contamination or create other environmental risks.  We have recorded a liability for what we believe, based upon currently available information, is our estimated environmental investigation and/or remediation costs for waste disposal sites for which we expect to bear legal liability.  We continue to evaluate the environmental impact of our former disposal practices.  Under federal and state law, government agencies and private parties can attempt to impose liability on us for these practices.  As of December 31, 2011, the liability recorded by us for our reasonably estimable and probable environmental remediation costs for known sites needing investigation and/or remediation, exclusive of recoveries from insurance or from third parties, was approximately $31.7 million, representing 59 sites.  These costs could be significantly higher if remediation becomes necessary or when additional information as to the extent of contamination becomes available.

The most significant liabilities currently relate to future clean-up costs at former MGP facilities.  These facilities were owned and operated by our predecessor companies from the mid-1800's to mid-1900's.  By-products from the manufacture of gas using coal resulted in fuel oils, hydrocarbons, coal tar, purifier wastes, metals and other waste products that may pose risks to human health and the environment.  We, through our subsidiaries, currently have partial or full ownership responsibilities at 28 former MGP sites.

HWP, a wholly owned subsidiary of NU, is continuing to evaluate additional potential remediation requirements at a river site in Massachusetts containing tar deposits associated with an MGP site that HWP sold to HG&E, a municipal electric utility, in 1902.


HWP is at least partially responsible for this site and has already conducted substantial investigative and remediation activities.  HWP's share of the remediation costs related to this site is not recoverable from customers.

Electric and Magnetic Fields

For more than twenty years, published reports have discussed the possibility of adverse health effects from EMF associated with electric transmission and distribution facilities and appliances and wiring in buildings and homes.  Although weak health risk associations reported in some epidemiology studies remain unexplained, most researchers, as well as numerous scientific review panels, considering all significant EMF epidemiology and laboratory studies, have concluded that the available body of scientific information does not support the conclusion that EMF affects human health.

We have closely monitored research and government policy developments for many years and will continue to do so.  In accordance with recommendations of various regulatory bodies and public health organizations, we reduce EMF associated with new transmission lines by the use of designs that can be implemented without additional cost or at a modest cost.  We do not believe that other capital expenditures are appropriate to minimize unsubstantiated risks.

Global Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emission Issues

Global climate change and greenhouse gas emission issues have received an increased focus from state governments and the federal government.  The EPA initiated a rulemaking addressing greenhouse gas emissions and, on December 7, 2009, issued a finding that concluded that greenhouse gas emissions are “air pollution” and endanger public health and welfare and should be regulated.  The largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. is the electricity generating sector.  The EPA has mandated GHG emission reporting beginning in 2011 for emissions for certain aspects of our business including stationary combustion, volume of gas supplied to large customers and fugitive emissions of SF-6 gas and methane.

We are continually evaluating the regulatory risks and regulatory uncertainty presented by climate change concerns.  Such concerns could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, both in terms of the generating facilities we own and operate as well as general utility operations. (See “Air Quality Requirements” in this section for information concerning RGGI) These could include federal “cap and trade” laws, carbon taxes, fuel and energy taxes, or regulations requiring additional capital expenditures at our generating facilities.  Product efficiency standards and regulations could impact the demand for energy use by our customers.  In addition, such rules or regulations could potentially impact the prices we pay for goods and services provided by companies directly affected by such rules or regulations.  We would expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers.

FERC Hydroelectric Project Licensing

Federal Power Act licenses may be issued for hydroelectric projects for terms of 30 to 50 years as determined by the FERC.  Upon the expiration of an existing license, (i) the FERC may issue a new license to the existing licensee, (ii) the United States may take over the project, or (iii) the FERC may issue a new license to a new licensee, upon payment to the existing licensee of the lesser of the fair value or the net investment in the project, plus severance damages, less certain amounts earned by the licensee in excess of a reasonable rate of return.

PSNH owns nine hydroelectric generating stations with a current claimed capability representing winter rates of approximately 71 MW, eight of which are licensed by the FERC under long-term licenses that expire on varying dates from 2017 through 2047.  PSNH and its hydroelectric projects are subject to conditions set forth in such licenses, the Federal Power Act and related FERC regulations, including provisions related to the condemnation of a project upon payment of just compensation, amortization of project investment from excess project earnings, possible takeover of a project after expiration of its license upon payment of net investment and severance damages and other matters.

Licensed operating hydroelectric projects are not generally subject to decommissioning during the license term in the absence of a specific license provision that expressly permits the FERC to order decommissioning during the license term.  However, the FERC has taken the position that under appropriate circumstances it may order decommissioning of hydroelectric projects at relicensing or may require the establishment of decommissioning trust funds as a condition of relicensing.  The FERC may also require project decommissioning during a license term if a hydroelectric project is abandoned, the project license is surrendered or the license is revoked.  PSNH is not presently encountering any of these challenges.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we employed a total of 6,063 employees, excluding temporary employees, of which 1,828 were employed by CL&P, 1,243 were employed by PSNH, 346 were employed by WMECO, 413 were employed by Yankee Gas and 2,228 were employed by NUSCO.  Approximately 2,279 employees of CL&P, PSNH, WMECO, NUSCO and Yankee Gas are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or The United Steelworkers and are covered by 11 union agreements.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Our website address is www.nu.com.  We make available through our website a link to the SEC's EDGAR website (http://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html), at which site NU's, CL&P's, WMECO's and PSNH's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports may be reviewed.


Printed copies of these reports may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Northeast Utilities, 56 Prospect Street, Hartford, CT 06103.