ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS



The risks and uncertainties set forth below, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company’s business operations and financial results.



The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced profitability.



The Company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the United States and in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic” nonbranded products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices.



The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions, and the Company is increasingly using digital media marketing and promotional programs to reach consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. If the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including its use of digital media to reach consumers, are not effective or adequate, the Company’s sales and volume may be impacted.



Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced profits and adversely affect growth.



Unfavorableworldwide, regional and local economic conditions and financial market volatility may negatively impact the Company’s financial performance and liquidity.



Although the Company continues to devote significant resources to support its brands, unfavorable economic conditions may continue to negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s products. Consumers may reduce discretionary spending due to economic uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions, and this may lead to reduced sales volumes or cause a shift in the Company’s product mix from higher margin to lower margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or non-branded products and the Company’s competitors may increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales volumes during uncertain economic times.



In addition, global markets have continued to experience significant disruptions during fiscal year 2011 and continuing volatility could harm the Company’s business. Although the Company currently generates significant cash flows from ongoing operations and has access to global credit markets through its financing activities and existing credit facilities, if the current credit conditions were to worsen, the Company might not be able to access credit markets on favorable terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow. Financial market volatility and unfavorable economic conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of the Company’s customers, suppliers and other business partners. If customers’ financial conditions are severely affected, the Company may not be able to collect accounts receivable, which could impact its results.












Sales growth objectives may be difficult to achieve, and price increases and changes to the Company’s product and geographic mix may impact the Company’s financial results.



A large percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition. During fiscal year 2011, approximately 79% of the Company’s net sales was generated in U.S.markets. U.S. markets for cleaning products are generally characterized by high household penetration. The Company’s ability to achieve sales growth will depend on its ability to drive growth through innovation, investment in its established brands and enhanced merchandising and its ability to capture market share from competitors. The Company anticipates taking broad price increases across its global portfolio in fiscal year 2012, which may slow sales growth or create volume declines in the short term as consumers adjust to price increases. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that grow its product categories, and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its sales growth objectives.



In addition, changes to the mix of products the Company sells, as well as the mix of countries in which its products are sold, can adversely impact the Company’s operating expenses, the amount of revenue and the timing of revenue recognition, which could cause its profitability to suffer. The Company’s outlook assumes a certain volume and product mix of sales, and if actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, the Company’s operations and results could be negatively affected.



Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy, shipping and transportation, and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits.



services

Disclosures



To reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases, the Company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. The extent of the Company’s derivative position at any given time depends on the Company’s assessment of the markets for these commodities, the price volatility in the markets and the cost of the derivative instruments. Many of the commodities used by the Company in its products do not have actively traded derivative instruments. If the Company does not or is unable to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it institutes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the Company’s costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors’ costs and financial results could be adversely affected.



Profitability could suffer if the Company is unable to generate anticipated cost savings and efficiencies, or efficiently manage supply chain and manufacturing processes.



The Company continues to implement plans to improve its competitive position by achieving aggressive annualcost-savingstargets and it expects ongoing cost savings from its continuous improvement activities. The Company anticipates these continuing cost savings will result from reducing material costs and manufacturing inefficiencies and realizing productivity gains, distribution efficiencies and overhead reductions in each of its business segments. If the Company cannot successfully implement itscost-savingsplans or the cost of making thesecost-savingschanges increases, it may not realize all anticipated benefits. Any negative impact these plans have on the Company’s relationships with employees or customers or any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect its financial results.












The Company’s success and profitability alsodependon the efficient manufacture and production of products. Historically, the Company has undertaken restructuring programs and incurred restructuring charges, and expects to continue to restructure its operations as necessary to improve operational efficiency. For example, beginning in fiscal year 2008, the Company began a supply chain restructuring involving closing certain domestic and international manufacturing facilities and redistributing production between the remaining facilities and third-party producers to optimize available capacity and reduce operating costs. Gaining additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time and any failure to successfully execute such changes, or any increase in the cost of these changes, may result in supply chain interruption, which may negatively impact product volume and margins.



The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations, including exposure to foreign exchange rate risk.



The Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including:

economic or political instability in its international markets, including in Latin America and particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;difficulty in obtainingnonlocalcurrency (e.g., U.S. dollars) to pay for the raw materials needed to manufacture the Company’s products and contract-manufactured products, particularly in Venezuela;restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; andthe imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions, price restrictions or other governmental actions generating a negative impact on its business.

These risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. The Company’s small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks.



In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and its reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.



The Company’s operations outside the United States are also subject to risks relating to potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, import and export laws, raw material availability, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.



Inflation is another risk associated with the Company’s international operations. For example, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. Given Venezuela’s designation as a highly inflationary economy and the devaluation of the official rate, the Company’s revenue, operating profit and net income will continue to be negatively impacted in fiscal year 2012 and beyond. In addition, there can be no assurance that other countries in which the Company operates, such as Argentina, will not also become highly inflationary and that its operations will not be negatively impacted as a result. For further information regarding Venezuela, see “Venezuela” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 12 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Government regulations could impose material costs.



Generally, the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the United States, many of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Company’s product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. In addition, security at certain of the Company’s facilities is regulated by the Department of Homeland Security.














Act, in the areas of healthcare reform and other initiatives and legislation in the area of taxation of domestic and foreign profits, executive compensation and corporate governance could also increase the Company's costs.



The Company’s ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks, and government reviews, inquiries or investigations could harm the Company’s business.



The Company’s operations outside the United States are subject to risks relating to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in the United States and in local jurisdictions. Additionally, there is a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls. From time to time, the Company may conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews to ensure that it is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the Company could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. Any determination that the Company’s operations or activities are not in compliance with U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or international laws and regulations could expose the Company to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm the business and reputation of the Company.



Acquisitions, new venture investments and divestitures may not be successful, which could impact the Company’s results.



In connection with the Company’s strategy, the Company may seek to increase growth through acquisitions. Not only is the identification of good acquisition candidates difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks, including the ability to:

successfully integrate acquired companies, products, systems or personnel into the Company’s existing business, especially with respect to businesses or operations that are outside of the United States;minimize any potential interruption to the ongoing business of the Company;successfully enter categories and markets in which the Company may have limited or no prior experience;achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from acquisitions;retain key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies; andmaintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies.

Acquired companies or operations ornewly-created venturesmay not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions or ventures could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, the increase in expenses related to certain assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would increase, among other things, the Company’s exposure to foreign exchange risks. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating results.












The Company may also divest certain assets, businesses or brands that do not meet the Company’s strategic objectives or growth targets. With respect to any divestiture, the Company may encounter difficulty finding potential acquirers or other divestiture options on favorable terms. Any divestiture could affect the profitability of the Company, either as a result of the gains or losses on such sale of a business or brand, the loss of the operating income resulting from such sale or the costs or liabilities that are not assumed by the acquirer (i.e., stranded costs) that may negatively impact profitability subsequent to any divestiture. The Company may also be required to recognize impairment charges as the result of a divesture.



Any potential future acquisitions, new ventures or divestitures may divert the attention of management and may divert resources from matters that are core or critical to the business.



The Company may not successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions.



The Company’s future performance and growth depends on its innovation and ability to successfully develop or license and introduce new products and line extensions and product improvements. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve its innovation goals. The development and introduction of new products require substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the cost of failed product introductions.



Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26% for fiscal year 2011 and 27% foreach offiscal years 2010 and2009of the Company’s consolidated net sales and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable segments. No other customers exceeded 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. During fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 44%, 45% and44%of its net sales, respectively, and its ten largest customers accounted for 55%, 55% and 54% of its net sales, respectively. The Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to“private label”or competitors’ products, may harm the Company’s sales. Additionally, this may reduce the ability of the Company to bring new innovative products to consumers.



In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s sales and profits to decline. In recent years, the Company has seen increasing retailer consolidation both in the United States and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailers, which may demand lower pricing or specialpackagingor impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease due to customer inventory reductions or otherwise, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.












The Company’s financial results could suffer if the Company is unable to implement its strategies or if the Company’s strategies do not achieve the intended effects.



There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement its strategies, including, among other things, new product innovation, cost savings and penetration of and growth in international markets. If the Company is unable to implement its strategies in accordance with its expectations, the Company may not achieve its intended growth targets and its financial results could be adversely affected. While the Company believes that implementation of its strategies will advance the Company’s business and financial results, there can be no assurance that this will be the case.



Reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruption to the Company’s business.



The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain commodities and raw material inputs, including sole-source and single-source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. If the Company is unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, or if it is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for its business, or if any of the Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, the Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results could be adversely affected.



The Company’s success depends, in part, on its key personnel.



The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to retain its key personnel, including its executive officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of the Company’s key employees could disrupt its business. The Company’s success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where the Company’s headquarters and largest research facility are located. The Company may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and its failure to do so could adversely affect its business.



Product liability claims could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results.



The Company has in the past, and may be required in the future, to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Such claims may be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products containcontaminants,provide inadequate instructions regarding theiruseor inadequate warnings concerning interactions with othersubstances,or damage property or persons. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or certain product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policies.



Harm to the Company’s reputation or the reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an adverse effect on the business.



Maintaining a strong reputation with consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to the success of the Company’s business. The Company devotes significant time and resources to programs designed to protect and preserve the Company’s reputation and the reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance, sustainability, and product safety and quality initiatives. Despite these efforts, adverse publicity about the Company, including product safety or similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could occur, and the Company’s products could face withdrawal, recall or other quality issues. Such events, if they were to occur, could harm the Company’s image and result in an adverse effect on its business, as well as require resources to rebuild its reputation.












Environmental matters create potential liability risks.



The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances and concerns regarding climate change. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its currently and formerly owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have been or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to whom the Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the subject of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.



TheCompany had a recorded liability of $15 million and $16 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for its share of aggregate future remediation costs related to certain environmental matters, including Superfund and other response actions at various locations. One matter in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounts for a substantial majority of the recorded liability at both June 30, 2011 and 2010. The Company has agreed to be liable for 24.3% of the aggregate remediation and associated costs for this matter pursuant to a cost-sharing arrangement with a third party. With the assistance of environmental consultants, the Company maintains an undiscounted liability representing its current best estimate of its share of the capital expenditures, maintenance and other costs that may be incurred over an estimated 30-year remediation period. Currently, the Company cannot accurately predict the timing of future payments that may be made under this obligation. In addition, the Company’s estimated loss exposure is sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of remediation efforts, changes in remediation requirements and the timing, varying costs and alternative clean-up technologies that may become available in the future. Although it is possible that the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount recorded, any amount of such additional exposures, or range of exposures, is not estimable at this time.



The Company also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at its plant sites, including the rail transit of liquid chlorine from its point of origin to the Company’s manufacturing facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in transit or at the Company’s facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could result in substantial liability. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other purposes.



Failure to maximize, successfully assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness.



brands and

rights












If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be negatively impacted.



One of the Company’s strategies is to improve its products by licensingthird-partyideas and technologies in a process refered to as“open innovation.”If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, directlyor indirectly,throughthe use of suchthird-partyideas or technologies arising from itsopen innovation projects, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future for rights if holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use such intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition.



The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations, and the Company may incur substantially more debt in the future, which could exacerbate these risks.



The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2011, the Company had $2.6 billion of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:

make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its cash obligations;limit the Company’s ability to fund potential acquisitions;require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, general adverse economic conditions or changes in its business and the industry in which it operates;place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; andlimit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company.

In addition, the Company may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes, subject to compliance with the Company’s existing restrictive debt covenants. As of June 30, 2011, the Company could add approximately $1.1 billion in incremental debt and remain in compliance with restrictive debt covenants, although there is no assurance that the actual amount that the Company may be able to borrow in the future will equal this amount. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. In addition, the cost of incurring additional debt could increase due to possible downgrades in the Company’s credit rating. Any decision regarding the Company’s future borrowings will be based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time, including the Company’s credit rating. If the Company were to borrow the maximum amount available to it, its credit rating could be downgraded.



The Company could be adversely affected if its credit ratings were to fall below investment grade.



Certain terms of the agreements governing the Company’s over-the-counter derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company’s credit ratings, as assigned by Standard&Poor’s and Moody’s to the Company and its counterparties, to remain at a level equal to or better than the minimum of an investment grade credit rating. If the Company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request full collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. As of June 30, 2011, the Company and each of its counterparties maintainedinvestment-graderatings with both Standard&Poor’s and Moody’s.












The Company may not have sufficient cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends.



The Company’s ability to repay and refinance its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends on the Company’s cash flow. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on cash flow and net profits (as defined by Delaware law). The Company’s cash flow and net profits are often subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control, and such factors may limit the Company’s ability to repay indebtedness, pay cash dividends and repatriate earnings at an effective cost.



The facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s control.



Operations at the facilities of the Company and its suppliers and retail customers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and Technical Center are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations.



The Company’s continued growth and expansion and increasing reliance onthird-partyservice providers could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm its business and financial results.



Clorox management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, the Company increasingly engages the services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial reporting processes, which inserts additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud.



A failure of a key information technology system could adversely impact the Company’s ability to conduct business.



requirements,












The Company’s judgments regarding accounting policies and the resolution of tax disputes may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow.



Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable accounting standards. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact the Company’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 19 -Income Taxesof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 49 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



The estimates and assumptions on which the Company’s financial statement projections are based may prove to be inaccurate, which may cause its actual results to materially differ from such projections.



The Company’s financial statement projections are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, estimates of liabilities, goodwill, category growth, market share projections, and the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in its existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase its shares, make acquisitions, pay dividends and meet debt obligations. While the Company’s projections are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made, the Company’s actual results may differ materially from its financial outlook. Any material variation between the Company’s projections and its actual results may adversely affect its stock price.



There can be noguaranteethat the Company will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase its stock.



Although the Company’s board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program and adopted a dividend policy under which the Company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock, any determinations by the Company to continue to repurchase its common stock or by the board of directors to continue to pay cash dividends on its common stock will be based primarily upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, businessrequirements,price of its common stock in the case of the repurchase program, andboard of directors’ continuing determination that the repurchase program and the declaration of dividends under the dividend policy are in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs.



The Company’s business could be negatively affected as a result of an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.



In July 2011, the Company received an unsolicited conditional proposal from Carl Icahn and certain of his affiliated entities to purchase all of the outstanding shares of the Company. Subsequently, the Company received a notice from Carl Icahn and certain of his affiliates that announced their intent to nominate 11 individuals for election to its board of directors. The unsolicited proposal and proxy contest could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business because:

responding to unsolicited takeover proposals and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting the Company’s operations and diverting the attention of its management and employees;perceived uncertainties as to the Company’s future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; andif completed, a takeover may result in a change-in-control under certain of the Company’s long-term indebtedness agreements, and may require it to repurchase certain outstanding debt securities or result in an acceleration of certain indebtedness.

In addition, any unsolicited offer could cause the Company’s stock price to fluctuate significantly.












