ITEM 1.A. RISK
FACTORS

The risks and uncertainties
set forth below, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or
in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the
Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional
risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are
not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company’s
business operations and financial results.

The Company is subject to
risks related to its international operations.

In fiscal year 2014,
approximately 20% of the Company’s net sales were generated in international
markets. The Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks
associated with having foreign operations, including:

challenges in Venezuela, where
  the Company’s business and cash flows have been and continue to be adversely
  impacted by governmental restrictions such as currency exchange,price andmargin controls, as well as other difficult operating
conditions;

challenges in Argentina, where
  the devaluation of the Argentine peso has negatively affected the Company’s
  net sales and net earnings;

economic or political
  instability, particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;

price controls and related
  government actions, particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;

foreign currency fluctuations,
  currency controls and inflation, which may adversely affect the Company’s
  ability to do business in certain markets and reduce the U.S. dollar value of
  revenues, profits or cash flows it receives from non-U.S.
  markets;

difficulty in obtaining
  non-local currency (e.g., U.S. dollars) to pay for the raw materials needed to
  manufacture the Company’s products and contract-manufactured products,
  particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;

restrictions on or costs
  relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States,
  including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations,
  particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;

the imposition of tariffs, trade
  restrictions, import and export laws or other government actions generating a
  negative impact on the Company’s business;

the possibility of
  nationalization, expropriation of assets or other similar government actions,
  particularly in Venezuela and Argentina;

difficulties in hiring and
  retaining qualified local employees;

civil unrest, work stoppages and
  labor disputes;

difficulties in obtaining or
  unavailability of raw materials;

increased credit risk of local
  customers, suppliers and distributors;

difficulties in enforcing
  intellectual property and contractual rights; and

challenges relating to
  enforcement of or compliance with laws.

Many of the risks
described above are particularly acute in Venezuela. The operating environment
in Venezuela is challenging, with high inflation, political instability,
governmental restrictions in the form of currency exchange, price and margin
controls and the possibility of government actions such as further devaluations,
business occupations and intervention or expropriation of assets. For nearly
three years, more than two thirds of the Company’s products in Venezuela have
been subject to price controls despitesignificant double-digitinflation. In
addition, the foreign exchange controls in Venezuela limit the Venezuela
business’s ability to remit dividends and pay intercompany balances. For further
information regarding Venezuela, see “Venezuela” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on page 9 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

Argentina also presents
a difficult operating environment, including price controls on some of the
Company’s products, a devaluing currency and inflation. In addition, in July
2014, the Argentine government defaulted on debt payment agreements. For further
information regarding Argentina, see “Argentina” in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 11 of Exhibit
99.1 hereto.

More broadly, the risks
described above could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s ability
to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets
and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial
position. For example, lower prices resulting from price controls could continue
to adversely affect the Company’s margins, profitability and cash flow, and make
it difficult for the Company to offset other risks, such as high inflation. The
Company’s small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational
and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks.










In addition, the Company is
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales,
profits and cash flow driven by movements of the U.S. dollar relative to other
currencies. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign
currency risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company’s
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and, therefore, the Company’s reported
earnings may be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.

Inflation is another risk
associated with the Company’s international operations. For example, Venezuela
has been designated, for financial reporting purposes, as a highly inflationary
economy, and Argentina could in the future be designated as such. Gains and
losses resulting from the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and
liabilities of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are
recorded in net earnings. Other countries in which the Company operates may also
become highly inflationary or such countries’ currencies may be devalued, or
both, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations.

The Company faces intense
competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, profitability
and cash flow.

The Company faces intense competition from
consumer product companies both in the United States and in its international
markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely advertised
brands within each product category. The Company also faces competition from
retailers, including club stores, dollar stores and mass merchandisers, which
are increasingly offering “private label” brands that are typically sold at
lower prices and compete with the Company’s products in certain categories.
During times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private
label or other economy brands. Increased purchases of private label products
could reduce sales volumes of the Company’s higher-margin products or there
could be a shift in product mix to lower-margin offerings.

The Company’s products
generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and
packaging also have significant impacts on consumer purchasing decisions, and
the Company is increasingly using digital media marketing and promotional
programs to reach consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether
improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring
substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires
continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain
its relative market position. If the Company’s advertising, marketing and
promotional programs, including its use of digital media to reach consumers, are
not effective or adequate, the Company’s sales and volume may be negatively
impacted.

Some of the Company’s
competitors are larger than the Company and have greater financial resources.
These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and
promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond
more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company
can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by
offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company.
Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on
advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced
profits and adversely affect growth.

Unfavorable worldwide,
regional and local economic conditions and financial market volatility may
negatively impact the Company and consumers of its products, which would
negatively affect the Company’s financial performance and
liquidity.

Although the Company continues
to devote significant resources to support its brands, unfavorable economic
conditions may continue to negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s
products. Consumers may also be sensitive to economic uncertainty or unfavorable
economic conditions and reduce discretionary spending, which may lead to reduced
sales volumes or cause a shift in the Company’s product mix from higher-margin
to lower-margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or
non-branded products and the Company’s competitors may increase levels of
promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales
volumes during uncertain economic times, which may negatively impact the
Company’s sales and volume.

Global markets continued to
experience significant disruptions during fiscal year 2014, and continuing
volatility, particularly in Venezuela and Argentina, could continue to harm the
Company’s business. Although the Company currently generates significant cash
flows from ongoing operations overall and has access to global credit markets
through its financing activities and existing credit facilities to meet its
current needs, if the current credit conditions were to significantly worsen,
the Company might not be able to access credit markets on favorable terms when
needed, which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and capital
resources. Financial market volatility and unfavorable economic conditions may
also adversely affect the financial condition of the Company’s customers,
suppliers and other business partners. If customers’ financial conditions are
severely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of the Company’s
products or the Company may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of
which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results.









Volatility and increases in
the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation, labor and other necessary
supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits and cash flow.

To reduce the cost volatility
associated with anticipated commodity purchases, the Company uses derivative
instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. The extent of the Company’s
derivative position at any given time depends on the Company’s assessment of the
markets for these commodities, the cost volatility in the markets and the cost
of the derivative instruments. Many of the commodities used by the Company in
its products do not have actively traded derivative instruments. If the Company
does not or is unable to take a derivative position and costs subsequently
increase, or if it institutes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the
Company’s costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors’
costs and the Company’s financial results could be adversely
affected.

Sales growth objectives may
be difficult to achieve, and price increases, market and category declines and
changes to the Company’s product and geographic mix may adversely impact the
Company’s financial results.

A large percentage of the
Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of
competition. During fiscal year 2014, approximately 80% of the Company’s net
sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for cleaning products are
generally characterized by high household penetration. The Company’s ability to
achieve sales growth depends on its ability to drive growth through innovation,
investment in its established brands and enhanced merchandising and its ability
to capture market share from competitors. If the Company is unable to increase
market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake
sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that grow its product categories
and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its
sales growth objectives. Even when the Company is successful in increasing sales
within particular product categories, a continuing or accelerating decline in
the overall markets for its products can have a negative impact on the Company’s
financial results.

In addition, changes to the
mix of products the Company sells, as well as the mix of countries in which its
products are sold, can adversely impact the Company’s operating expenses, the
amount of revenue and the timing of revenue recognition, which could cause its
profitability and cash flow to suffer. The Company’s financial outlook assumes a
certain volume and product mix of sales, and if actual results vary from this
projected volume and product mix of sales, the Company’s operations and results
could be negatively affected.

Dependence on key customers
could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results
of operations.

A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the
Company’s net sales. Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Walmart
Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 26% of consolidated net sales for each of
the fiscal years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012, and occurred in each of the
Company’s reportable segments. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of
consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. During fiscal years 2014,
2013 and 2012, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 45%, 45% and
44% of its net sales, respectively, and its ten largest customers accounted for
55% of its net sales for each of the three fiscal years. The Company expects
that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a
small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the
Company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they
carry or a shift of shelf space to “private label” or competitors’ products, may
harm the Company’s sales and reduce the ability of the Company to bring new
innovative and improved products to consumers.









In addition, the Company’s
business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company
typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers.
Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease
buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company
does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could
decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s sales and
profits to decline. Furthermore, unfavorable market conditions or competitive
pressures may cause the Company’s customers to reevaluate the number and mix of
brands they sell, resulting in lower purchases of the Company’s products by
these customers.

The Company continues to
see retailer consolidation both in the United States and internationally. This
trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated
retailers, who may change their business strategies, demand lower pricing or
special packaging or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These
business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, a shift in focus
away from branded products toward private label or other aspects of the
customer-supplier relationship. Such consolidated companies could also exert
additional competitive pressure on other customers of the Company, which could
in turn negatively impact the Company’s sales. If the Company ceases doing
business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a
significant customer materially decrease due to customer inventory reductions or
otherwise, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations
may be harmed.

Government regulations
could impose material costs.

Generally, the manufacture,
packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s
products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with
extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the
United States, many of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product
Safety Commission, and the Company’s product claims and advertising are
regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, among other regulatory agencies. Most
states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these federal agencies. The
Company’s international operations are also subject to regulation in each of the
foreign jurisdictions in which it manufactures or distributes its products.
There is also a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in
certain foreign jurisdictions and related difficulties in maintaining effective
internal controls. Additionally, the Company could be subject to inquiries or
investigations by governmental and other regulatory bodies. Any determination
that the Company’s operations or activities are not in compliance with the law,
including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could expose the Company to
significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm the business and
reputation of the Company.

It is expected that
federal, state and foreign governments will continue to introduce new and
expanded legislation affecting the Company’s operations. For example, the
Company is subject to regulations regarding the transportation, storage or use
of certain chemicals to protect the environment, including as a result of
evolving climate change standards, and new and increased regulation in other
areas, such as with respect to “conflict minerals.” Such regulation could
negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain raw materials or could
increase its acquisition and compliance costs. In addition, pending legislative
initiatives and adopted legislation in the areas of healthcare reform and other
areas, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer ProtectionAct and legislation in the area
of taxation of domestic and foreign profits, executive compensation and
corporate governance, could also increase the Company’s costs. These risks may
be increased by the Company’s acquisitions of HealthLink and Aplicare, Inc.,
which manufacture products subject to additional regulations.

If the Company is found to
be noncompliant with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, it
could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, import detentions,
injunctions, product withdrawals or recalls or asset seizures, as well as
potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect
on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and
registrations, particularly with respect to its charcoal business, could delay
or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new
products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could
adversely affect operating results. As the Company expands its natural personal
care and healthcare businesses such as through Burt’s Bees®, HealthLink®,
Aplicare®, Caltech Industries and Clorox®CareConcepts™, an increasing number of
its products have and will become subject to regulations and laws relating to
drugs and medical devices. In order to comply with these laws and regulations,
the Company may be required to make changes to product formulation, labeling or
marketing claims,perform additional testing to substantiate its product claims,make costly changes in its manufacturing processes or supply chain or stop
selling certain products until corrective actions have been taken.









Reliance on a limited
base of suppliers may result in disruptions to the Company’s business.

The Company relies on a
limited number of suppliers for certain commodities and raw material inputs,
including sole-source and single-source suppliers for certain of its raw
materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary
supplies. New suppliers may have to be qualified under governmental, industry
and Company standards, which can require additional investment and time. If the
Company is unable to qualify any needed new suppliers or maintain supplier
arrangements and relationships, if it is unable to contract with suppliers at
the quantity, quality and price levels needed for its business or if any of the
Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent, experiences financial distress or
environmental, economic or other outside factors impact its operations, the
Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results and
relationships with customers could be adversely affected.

Profitability and cash flow
could suffer if the Company is unable to successfully implement its strategies,
generate anticipated cost savings and efficiencies or efficiently manage supply
chain and manufacturing processes.

net

annual

In addition,

Company expects

restructurings and

Product liability,
commercial claims or other legal proceedings could adversely affect the
Company’s sales and operating results, including cash flow.

The Company has in the past  paid, and may be
required in the future to pay, for losses or injuries  purportedly caused by its products. Such claims may be based on
allegations  that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants or provide  inadequate instructions
or warnings regarding their use, or damage property or  persons. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity
that could  harm the Company’s reputation, sales and operating results. In addition, if any  of the Company’s
products is found to be defective, the Company may recall it,  which could result in adverse publicity and significant
expenses. Although the  Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product  liability claimsmay
besubject to a retention, exceedthe amount of insurance  coverageor
beexcluded under the terms of the policies.

In addition, the Company is,
and may in the future become, a party to litigation and other disputes,
including advertising disputes with competitors, consumer class actions, labor
claims, securities litigation and litigation in foreign jurisdictions. In
general, claims made by or against the Company in litigation, disputes or other
proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming to bring or defend against and
could result in settlements,injunctions ordamages that could significantly
affect its business or financial results or condition. It is not possible to
predict the final resolution of the litigation, disputes or proceedings with
which the Company currently is or may in the future become involved. The impact
of these matters on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial
condition could be material. See “Contingencies” in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 16 and Note
11 –Other
Contingenciesand Guaranteesof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
beginning on page46of Exhibit 99.1 hereto for additional information related
to these matters, including litigation related to its discontinued operations in
Brazil.









The Company may not
successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions or
successfully expand into adjacent categories and countries, which could
adversely impact its financial results.

The Company’s future
performance and growth depends on its innovation and ability to successfully
develop or license and introduce new products, brands, line extensions and
product improvements or enter into or expand into adjacent product categories,
sales channels or countries. The Company cannot be certain that it will
successfully achieve its innovation goals. The development and introduction of
new products require substantial and effective research, development and
marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new
products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product development and
marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in
which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These
risks include product development or launch delays, which could result in the
Company not being first to market and the failure of new products, brands and
line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance. If product
introductions or new or expanded adjacencies are not successful, costs
associated with these efforts may not be fully recouped and the Company’s
profits could be adversely affected. In addition, if sales generated by new
products cause a decline in sales of the Company’s existing products, the
Company’s financial results could be materially adversely
affected.

Acquisitions, new venture
investments and divestitures may not be successful, which could impact the
Company’s results.

In connection
with the Company’s strategy, the Company expects to continue to seek to increase
growth through acquisitions. Not only is it difficult to identify good
acquisition candidates and to compete successfully for such candidates, but
these transactions also involve numerous risks, including risks relating to the
Company’s ability to:

successfully integrate acquired
  companies, products, systems or personnel into the Company’s existing
  business, especially with respect to businesses or operations that are outside
  of the United States;minimize any potential interruption to the ongoing business
  of the Company or the acquired company;successfully enter categories and markets in which the
  Company may have limited or no prior experience;achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired financial
  or strategic benefits from acquisitions;retain key relationships with employees, customers, partners
  and suppliers of acquired companies; andmaintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies
  throughout acquired companies.

Acquired companies or
operations or newly created ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve
sales levels and profitability and cash flow that justify the investments.
Future acquisitions or ventures could also result in potentially dilutive
issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of
contingent liabilities, including litigation, an increase in expenses related to
certain assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely
affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Future
acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would increase, among
other things, the Company’s exposure to foreign exchange rate risks, local
regulations and potential liabilities relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any
of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be
required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible assets or
other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its
operating results.

The Company may also divest
certain assets, businesses or brands that do not meet the Company’s strategic
objectives or growth targets. With respect to any divestiture, the Company may
encounter difficulty finding potential acquirers or other divestiture options on
favorable terms. Any divestiture could affect the profitability of the Company
as a result of the gains or losses on such sale of a business or brand, the loss
of the operating income resulting from such sale or the costs or liabilities
that are not assumed by the acquirer (i.e., stranded costs) that may negatively
impact profitability and cash flow subsequent to any divestiture. The Company
may also be required to recognize impairment charges as a result of a divesture.

Any potential future
acquisitions, new ventures or divestitures may divert the attention of
management and resources from matters that are core or critical to the business.










Cyber attacks, privacy
breaches or a failure of key information technology systems could adversely
impact the Company’s ability to conduct business.

The Company relies extensively
on information technology systems, many of which are managed by third-party
service providers, in order to conduct its business. These systems include, but
are not limited to, programs and processes relating to communicating within the
Company and with customers, consumers and other parties, ordering and managing
materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping
products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting
results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal and tax requirements and
other processes involved in managing the business. The Company has made
significant progress with its implementation of enterprise-wide upgrades to its
hardware, software and operating systems, including its enterprise system in
Latin America, which replaced legacy systems and is expected to streamline
operations and enable future growth. However, legacy systems remain in countries
where the Company conducts business outside of the United States and Latin
America. If the Company’s existing and/or future technology systems, third-party
service providers and processes do not adequately support the future growth of
the Company’s business, the Company’s business may be adversely
impacted.

Although the Company has
network security measures in place, the systems may be vulnerable to computer
viruses, security breaches and other disruptions from unauthorized users or
system failures, including Internet outages. While the Company has business
continuity plans in place, if the systems are damaged or cease to function
properly due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power
outages, security breaches or other similar events, and if the business
continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, the
Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct business,
which may adversely impact the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company
sells its Burt’s Bees®and güd®

natural personal care products and Kingsford®lifestyle products directly to consumers online and offers customer loyalty and
other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it could
experience cyber attacks or other incidents that result in unauthorized
disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or Company information. If the
Company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its
technology system or such a breach or other breakdown results in unauthorized
disclosure of business, personal or stakeholder information, the Company may
suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to
legal liability, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations
and/or financial condition. In addition, if the Company’s service providers,
suppliers or customers experience such a breach or unauthorized disclosure,
their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may
result in a disruption in the Company’s supply chain or reduced customer orders,
which would adversely affect the Company’s operations.



Loss of, or inability to
attract, key personnel could adversely impact the Company’s business.

The Company’s success depends,
in part, on its ability to retain its key personnel, including its executive
officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of the
Company’s key employees could disrupt its business. The Company’s success also
depends, in part, on its continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain
other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be
intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the Company’s
headquarters and largest research facility are located. As the Company expands
into new categories or markets, including more regulated businesses, it will
also require personnel with relevant training and experience in such categories
or markets. The Company may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain
qualified personnel in the future, and its failure to do so could adversely
affect its business.

Harm to the Company’s
reputation or the reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an
adverse effect on the business.

Maintaining a strong
reputation with consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to the
success of the Company’s business. The Company devotes significant time and
resources to programs designed to protect and preserve the Company’s reputation
and the reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance,
sustainability and product safety and quality initiatives. Despite these
efforts, negative publicity about the Company, including product safety or
similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could occur, and the Company’s
products could face withdrawal, recall or other quality issues. The Company also
licenses certain of its brands to third parties, which creates additional
exposure for those brands to product safety, quality and other concerns.
Negative publicity, posts or comments about the Company or its brands could also
be widely disseminated through the use of social media. Such events, if they
were to occur, could harm the Company’s image and adversely affect its business,
as well as require resources to rebuild the Company’s reputation.

Environmental matters
create potential liabilities.

The Company must comply with
various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it
operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, handling
and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, remediation of contamination
associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances and climate change.
The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenditures
and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in
providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures
reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other purposes.










The Company is currently
involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past
contamination in the operation of some of its current and former facilities. In
addition, some of its present and former facilities have or had been in
operation for many years and, over that time, some of those facilities may have
used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be
considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites
owned by third parties to whom the Company has sent waste, may be identified and
become the subject of remediation. The Company could also become subject to
additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a
material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.

Other
Contingencies



and Guarantees

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
beginning on page46of Exhibit 99.1 hereto for additional information related
to these liabilities.



The Company also handles
and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine,
at some of its international plant sites. A release of such chemicals, whether
in transit or at the Company’s facilities, due to accident or an intentionalact couldresult in substantial liability and business disruptions.

The facilities of the
Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the
Company’s control.

Operations at facilities of the Company, its
suppliers, service providersand retailcustomers are subject to disruption
for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, demonstrations, disease
outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or
other natural disasters. The Company’s corporate headquarters and primary
research and development facility are located near major earthquake fault lines
in California. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to
people or the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data,
delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations. Any
such disruption could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business.

Failure to maximize,
successfully assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property
rights could impact its competitiveness.



If the Company is found to
have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain
necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be
negatively impacted.

If the Company is found to
have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other
intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, through the use
of third-party ideas or technologies, such a finding could result in the need to
cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention
in the Company’s business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for
past infringement. If holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to
use such intellectual property rights, it could also be necessary to pay a
substantial amount in the future for those rights. Either ceasing use or paying
such amounts could cause the Company to become less competitive and could have a
material adverse impact on the Company’s business, operating results and
financial condition.










Even if the Company is not
found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, claims of
infringement could adversely affect the Company’s business. For example, if the
Company seeks proposals from multiple vendors for a new product or innovation
and chooses to partner with a particular vendor, another vendor may claim the
Company infringed its intellectual property rights by using information gathered
from the vendor proposals. The Company could incur material legal costs and
related expenses to defend against such claims.

The Company’s substantial
indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and
prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations, and the Company may incur
substantially more debt in the future, which could exacerbate these risks.

As of June 30, 2014, the
Company had $2.3 billion of debt, including $575 million of senior unsecured
notes that mature in fiscal year 2015. The Company’s substantial indebtedness
could have important consequences. For example, it could:

require the Company to dedicate a
  substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its
  indebtedness, which would reduce
  the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements,
  capital expenditures, future acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;limit the Company’s flexibility in
  planning for or reacting to general adverse economic conditions or changes in
  its business and the industries in
  which it operates;place the Company at a competitive
  disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; andlimit, along with the financial and other restrictive
  covenants in the Company’s debt documents, its ability to borrow additional
  funds.

Additionally, failure by the
Company to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt
documents could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived,
could have a significant adverse effect on the Company. Further, certain terms
of the agreements governing the Company’s over-the-counter derivative
instruments contain provisions that require the Company’s credit ratings, as
assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s to the Company and its
counterparties, to remain at a level equal to or better than the minimum of an
investment grade credit rating. As of June 30, 2014, the Company and each of its
counterparties had been assigned investment-grade ratings with both Standard
& Poor’s and Moody’s. However, if the Company’s credit rating were to fall
below investment grade, the counterparties to the derivative instruments in net
liability positions could request full collateralization.

The Company may incur
substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions,
repurchase shares or fund other activities for general business purposes,
subject to compliance with the Company’s existing restrictive debt covenants. As
of June 30, 2014, the Company could add approximately $1.7 billion in
incremental debt and remain in compliance with restrictive debt covenants,
although the actual amount that the Company may be able to borrow in the future
may not equal this amount. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the
related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. In addition, the cost
of incurring additional debt could increase due to possible downgrades in the
Company’s credit rating, economic conditions or otherwise.

The Company’s continued
growth and expansion and reliance on third-party service providers could
adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm
its business and financial results.

Clorox management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute
assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be
prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in domestic
and globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the
Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, the
Company engages the services of third parties to assist with business operations
and financial reporting processes, which injects additional monitoring
obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure to
maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could
limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and on a
timely basis, or to detect and prevent fraud.










The Company’s judgments
regarding the accounting for tax positions and the resolution of tax disputes
may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow.

Significant judgment is
required to determine the Company’s effective tax rate and evaluate its tax
positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax
positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria
prescribed by applicable accounting standards. Fluctuations in federal, state,
local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including
related interest and penalties, may impact the Company’s effective tax rate and
the Company’s financial results. When particular tax matters arise, a number of
years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved.
Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate,
which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Any
resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.
For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 17 –Income Taxesof the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
beginning on page53of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.

The estimates and
assumptions on which the Company’s financial statement projections are based may
prove to be inaccurate, which may cause its actual results to materially differ
from such projections, which may adversely affect the Company’s future cash
flows and stock price.

The Company’s financial
statement projections are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related
to, among other things, category growth, market share projections, foreign
exchange rates, commodity prices, cost savings, accruals for estimated
liabilities, including litigation reserves, goodwill, market share projections,
measurement of benefit obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit
plans and the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in
its existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase its shares, make
acquisitions, pay dividends and meet debt obligations. While the Company’s
projections are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions
that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the
time they are made, the Company’s actual results may differ materially from its
financial outlook. Any material variation between the Company’s projections and
its actual results may adversely affect the Company’s stock price.

The Company may not
continue to pay dividends or repurchase its stock.

Although the Company has
historically declared and paid quarterly cash dividends on its common stock and
has been authorized to repurchase its shares subject to certain limitations
under a share repurchase program, any determinations to continue to declare and
pay cash dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its common stock will be
based primarily upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations
and business requirements, the price of its common stock in the case of the
repurchase program and the board of directors’ continuing determination that the
repurchase program and the declaration and payment of dividends are in the best
interests of the Company’s stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and
agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. The Company’s
ability to continue to declare and pay cash dividends will depend upon, among
other things, its cash balances and future cash requirements, results of
operations, financial condition and net earnings, all of which are subject to
general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other
factors beyond the Company’s control. In the event the Company does not declare
and pay a quarterly dividend or discontinues its share repurchases, the
Company’s stock price could be adversely affected.

The Company’s business
could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an
unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.

In recent years, proxy
contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against
numerous public companies, including the Company. During fiscal years 2012 and
2011, the Company was the target of an unsolicited takeover proposal from a
stockholder activist, which resulted in significant costs to the Company. If
such a proposal were to be made again, the Company would incur significant
costs, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.
Stockholder activists may also seek to involve themselves in the governance,
strategic direction and operations of the Company. Such proposals may disrupt
the Company’s business and divert the attention of the Company’s management and
employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to the Company’s future direction
resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business
opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified
personnel and business partners, which could adversely affect the Company’s
business.



