ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS

The risks and uncertainties set forth below, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow.

The Company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely advertised, promoted and merchandised brands within each product category. The Company also faces competition from retailers, including club stores, grocery stores, drugstores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and subscription services, which are increasingly offering “private label” brands that are typically sold at lower prices and compete with the Company’s products in certain categories. Increased purchases of “private label” products could reduce net sales of the Company’s higher-margin products or there could be a shift in product mix to lower-margin offerings, which would negatively impact our margins.

The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, and price. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have significant impacts on consumer purchasing decisions, and the Company is increasingly using digital media marketing and promotional programs to reach consumers. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising, promotional support and product innovations to maintain its relative market position. If the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including its use of digital media to reach consumers, are not effective or adequate, the Company’s net sales may be negatively impacted.

Some of the Company’s competitors are larger than the Company and have greater financial resources. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced sales, margins and net earnings.

The changing retail environment and changing consumer preferences could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.









Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the Company’s net earnings and cash flow.

To reduce the cost volatility associated with anticipated purchases of certain commodities, the Company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. The extent of the Company’s derivative position at any given time depends on the Company’s assessment of the markets for these commodities, the cost volatility in the markets and the cost of the derivative instruments. Many of the commodities used by the Company in its products do not have actively traded derivative instruments. If the Company does not or is unable to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it executes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the Company’s costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors’ costs and the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. For further information regarding the Company’s use of derivative instruments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1.

Sales growth objectives may be difficult to achieve, the Company may not be able to successfully implement price increases, and market and category declines and changes to the Company’s product and geographic mix may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

A large percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition. During fiscal year










Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were

25%

,

26%

and

26%

of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30,


,


and


, respectively, and occurred across all of the Company’s reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. The Company’s five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company’s consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years


,


and


and a significant portion of the Company’s future revenues may continue to be derived from a small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, a shift of shelf space to “private label” or competitors’ products or a decision to lower pricing of consumer products, including branded products, may harm the Company’s net sales or margins, and reduce the ability of the Company to offer new, innovative products to consumers. In addition, the use of the latest technology by our customers regarding pricing may lead to category pricing pressures. Furthermore, any loss of a key customer or a significant reduction in net sales to a key customer, even if such loss or reduction relates to a key customer of a business unit of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s net sales and net earnings to decline. Furthermore, unfavorable market conditions or competitive pressures may cause the Company’s customers to reevaluate the number and mix of brands they sell, resulting in lower purchases of the Company’s products by these customers. In addition, some of our customers have experienced, and may experience in the future, declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all. We regularly review the financial strength of our key customers and, where appropriate, modify customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales.

The Company continues to see retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailers, who have in the past changed, and may in the future change, their business strategies, demand lower pricing or special packaging or impose other burdensome requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, transportation and storage, a shift in focus away from branded products toward “private label” or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. These large consolidated companies could also exert additional competitive pressure on the Company’s other customers, which could in turn lead to such customers demanding lower pricing or special packaging or imposing other onerous requirements on the Company. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease due to customer inventory reductions or otherwise, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.

Cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or a failure of key information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation and its reputation.

To conduct its business, the Company relies extensively on information technology systems, many of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties and their vendors. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to communicating within the Company and with customers, consumers, vendors, investors and other parties; ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; receiving and processing purchase orders and shipping products to customers; processing transactions; storing, processing and transmitting data, including personal confidential information and payment card industry data; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business and financial information; summarizing and reporting results of operations; complying with financial reporting, regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and implementing other processes involved in managing the business. Furthermore, the Company sells certain of its Burt’s Bees

®

natural personal care products, RenewLife

®

digestive health products, and Nutranext dietary supplements and other products directly to consumers online and through websites, mobile apps and connected devices, and the Company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and the Company or its vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that may result in unauthorized access, disclosure and misuse of consumer, customer, employee, vendor or Company information.









Although the Company continuously implements enterprise-wide upgrades to its hardware, software and operating systems, the Company continues to utilize various legacy systems, which may be vulnerable to increased risks, including the risk of system failures and disruptions. In addition, some of the legacy systems will need to be upgraded or replaced in the future as such systems cease to be supported by third-party service providers. If such systems are not successfully upgraded or replaced in a timely manner, system outages, disruptions or delays, or other issues may arise. The Company must also successfully integrate the technology systems of acquired companies into the Company’s existing and future technology systems, including with third-party service providers and processes. If a new system does not function properly, or is not adequately supported by third-party service providers and processes, it could affect the Company’s ability to process and deliver customer orders and process and receive payments for its products. This could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows.

A breach or other breakdown in the Company’s technology, including a cyber-attack, privacy breach, data breach or other incident involving the Company or any of the Company's vendors, that results in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, if the Company’s service providers, suppliers or customers experience a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the Company’s supply chain or reduced customer orders or other business operations, which would adversely affect the Company.









Harm to the Company’s reputation or the reputation of one or more of its leading brands or products could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations.

Acquisitions, new venture investments and divestitures may not be successful, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

In connection with the Company’s strategy, the Company expects to continue to seek acquisition opportunities. However, the Company may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive prices. In addition, all acquisitions and investments entail numerous risks, including risks relating to the Company’s ability to:

•successfully integrate acquired companies, products, technologies, systems or personnel into the Company’s existing business operations in an effective, timely and cost efficient manner;

•maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies, including effective integration of acquired companies into the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting;

•minimize any potential interruption to the ongoing business of the Company or the acquired company;

•successfully enter categories and markets in which the Company may have limited or no prior experience;

•achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from acquisitions;

•achieve distribution expansion related to products, categories and markets from acquisitions; and

•retain key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies.

Acquired companies or operations or joint ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability and cash flow expectations. Furthermore, acquisitions or ventures could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, such as those relating to advertising claims and other litigation, an increase in expenses related to certain assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject the Company to local regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, tax or labor laws, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.

The Company has divested and may, in the future, divest certain assets, businesses or brands that do not meet the Company’s strategic objectives or growth targets. With respect to any potential future divestiture, the Company may encounter difficulty finding potential acquirers or other divestiture options on favorable terms. Any future divestiture could affect the profitability of the Company as a result of the gains or losses on such sale of a business or brand, the loss of the operating income or sales resulting from such sale or the costs or liabilities that are not assumed by the acquirer that may negatively impact profitability and cash flow subsequent to any divestiture. The Company may also be required to recognize impairment charges or other losses as a result of a divestiture.









The occurrence of any of these risks or uncertainties with regard to any acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any potential future acquisitions, new ventures or divestitures may divert the attention of management and resources from other business priorities.

Government regulations could impose material costs.

In particular, because of the Company’s extensive international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, joint-venture partners or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations.

It is expected that federal, state and foreign governments will continue to introduce new and expanded legislation affecting the Company’s operations, which may require the Company to increase its resources, capabilities and expertise in such areas. For example, the Company is subject to regulations regarding the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to protect the environment, including as a result of evolving climate change standards, and regulations in other areas, such as with respect to “conflict minerals.” Such regulation could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain raw materials or could increase its acquisition and compliance costs. Furthermore, additional legislation in the areas of healthcare reform, taxation of domestic and foreign profits, sustainability of packaging, including plastics, executive compensation and corporate governance, could also increase the Company’s costs. In addition, any future government shutdowns may result in delays in the acceptance, review and approval of products or claims by the EPA or other governmental agencies, or other required governmental approvals.

The Company is also required to comply with increasingly complex and changing laws and regulations enacted to protect business and personal data in the United States and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer, customer, vendor or employee data. There is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including with respect to the GDPR and the CCPA, because they are continuously developing and evolving. The changes introduced by the GDPR and the CCPA, as well as any other changes to existing privacy and data protection laws and regulations and the introduction of similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, have subjected, and may continue in the future to subject, the Company to additional costs and have required, and may in the future require, costly changes to the Company’s security systems, policies, procedures and practices. The Company’s efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws and regulations may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time, which could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.









If the Company is found to be noncompliant with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, import detentions, injunctions, product withdrawals or recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations, particularly with respect to its charcoal business, could delay or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. As the Company expands its natural personal care and healthcare businesses such as through Burt’s Bees

®

, Clorox Healthcare

®

and Caltech Industries, an increasing number of its products have and will become subject to regulations and laws relating to drugs and medical devices. In addition, as a result of the Company’s acquisition of RenewLife and Nutranext, it markets and sells products that are subject to regulations relating to dietary supplements. In order to comply with any changes in these laws and regulations, including any changes that result from newly published clinical studies and emerging studies that may assert or prove that ingredients in our products or our products themselves are ineffective or harmful to consumers, the Company may be required to make changes to product formulation, labeling or marketing claims, perform additional testing to substantiate its product claims, make costly changes in its manufacturing processes or supply chain or stop selling certain products until corrective actions have been taken. Any of these developments could increase the Company’s costs significantly, which could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Uncertain worldwide, regional and local economic and financial market conditions may negatively impact the Company and consumers of its products, which would negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

Although the Company continues to devote significant resources to support its brands, uncertain economic conditions have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, consumer demand for the Company’s products. Consumers may also be sensitive to economic uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions and reduce discretionary spending, which may lead to reduced net sales or cause a shift in the Company’s product mix from higher-margin to lower-margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or “private label” products, and the Company’s competitors may increase levels of advertising and promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales volumes during uncertain economic times, which may negatively impact the Company’s net sales.

Global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal year2019. Future changes to U.S. or foreign tax and trade policies, imposition of new or increased tariffs, other trade restrictions or other government actions, (including any government shutdown) and foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, may lead to continuation of such threats and uncertainty. Uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of the Company’s customers, suppliers and other business partners. Any significant decrease in customers’ purchases of the Company’s products or inability of the Company to collect accounts receivable resulting from an adverse impact of the global markets on customers’ financial condition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations and international trade, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and the imposition of new or additional tariffs.

In fiscal year2019, 15% of the Company’s net sales were generated in international markets. The Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks associated with its foreign operations, including the following:

•economic or political instability;

•price controls and related government actions;

•foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, currency controls and inflation, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to do business in certain markets and reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues, profits or cash flows it generates in non-U.S. markets;

•continued high levels of inflation in Argentina;

•difficulty in obtaining non-local currency (e.g., U.S. dollars) to pay for the raw materials needed to manufacture the Company’s products and contract-manufactured products;

•restrictions on or costs related to the repatriation of foreign profits to the U.S.;

•the imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions, price, profit or other government controls, labor laws, travel or immigration restrictions, import and export laws or other government actions generating a negative impact on the Company’s business, including changes in trade policies that may be implemented and the impact of geopolitical events generally;

•difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified employees;

•civil unrest, work stoppages and labor disputes;

•employment litigation related to employees, contractors and suppliers, particularly in Argentina;









•difficulties in obtaining or unavailability of raw materials;

•potential loss of distribution channels as a result of retailer consolidation;

•increased credit risk of customers, suppliers and distributors;

•potential harm to third parties, the Company’s employees and/or surrounding communities, and related liabilities and damages to the Company’s reputation, from the use, storage and transportation of chlorine in certain international markets where chlorine is used in the production of bleach, whether such actions are undertaken by the Company or by the Company’s business partners;

•difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights;

•lack of well-established or reliable, and impartial legal systems in certain countries where the Company operates;

•challenges relating to enforcement of or compliance with local laws and regulations and with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., including without limitation, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•the possibility of nationalization, expropriation of assets or other similar government actions; and

•risks related to natural disasters, terrorism and other events beyond the Company’s control.



In addition, the ongoing negotiations surrounding the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (“Brexit”) have yet to provide clarity on what the outcome will be for the United Kingdom or Europe. Changes related to Brexit could subject the Company to heightened risks in that region, including disruptions to trade and free movement of goods, services and people to and from the United Kingdom, disruptions to our workforce or the workforce of our suppliers or business partners, increased foreign exchange volatility with respect to the British pound and additional legal, political and economic uncertainty. All of the foregoing risks could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s ability to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks.

The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks with respect to its net sales, net earnings and cash flow driven by movements of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease net earnings and cash flow. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, including devaluations, therefore, the Company’s reported net earnings may be negatively affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.

Furthermore, the recent imposition of tariffs and/or increase in tariffs on various products by the U.S. and other countries have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to trade policies and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries, and new and/or increased tariffs have subjected, and may in the future subject, the Company to additional costs and expenditure of resources. Major developments in trade relations, including the imposition of new or increased tariffs by the U.S. and/or other countries, and any emerging nationalist trends in specific countries could alter the trade environment and consumer purchasing behavior which, in turn, could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Inflation is another risk associated with the Company’s international operations. For example, effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy, as it has experienced cumulative inflation of approximately 100 percent or more over a three-year period. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and liabilities of Argentina were recorded in net earnings for fiscal year 2019. Other countries in which the Company operates may also become highly inflationary or such countries’ currencies may be devalued, or both, which may negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

For further information regarding Argentina, including the recent designation as a highly inflationary economy, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.









The Company may not successfully achieve its innovation goals, or develop and introduce new products and line extensions, or expand into adjacent categories and countries, which could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations.

The Company’s future performance and growth depends on innovation and its ability to successfully develop or license capabilities to introduce new products, brands, line extensions and product innovations or enter into or expand into adjacent product categories, sales channels or countries. The Company’s ability to quickly innovate in order to adapt its products to meet changing consumer demands is essential, especially in light of e-commerce significantly reducing the barriers for even small competitors to quickly introduce new brands and products directly to consumers. This risk is further heightened by the continued evolution of consumer needs, habits and preferences as a result of shifts in U.S. demographics, reflecting various factors including cultural and socioeconomic changes.

The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve its innovation goals. The development and introduction of new products require substantial and effective research and development and demand creation expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if such new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. In addition, effective and integrated systems are required for the Company to gather and use consumer data and information to successfully market its products. New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market and the failure of new products, brands and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance. If product introductions or new or expanded adjacencies are not successful, costs associated with these efforts may not be fully recouped and the Company’s net earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the Company’s existing products, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Product liability and labeling claims, commercial claims or other legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Company has in the past paid, and may be required in the future to pay, for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Such claims may be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants or provide inadequate instructions or warnings regarding their use, have defective packaging, fail to perform as advertised, or damage property or persons. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s reputation, sales and results of operation and the reputation of the Company’s brands. Furthermore, acquisitions or ventures could also result in the assumption of contingent liabilities, including litigation, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, if any of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company may recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, insurance recovery for product liability claims may be subject to a retention, exceed the amount of insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of the policies.









Profitability and cash flow could suffer if the Company is unable to generate anticipated cost savings, successfully implement its strategies, or efficiently manage supply chain and manufacturing processes.

Increases in the estimated fair value of the Procter & Gamble Co. (“P&G’s”) interest in the Company’s Glad®business increase the value of the Company’s obligation to purchase P&G’s interest in the Glad®business upon the termination of the venture agreement and may, in the future, adversely affect the Company’s net earnings and cash flow.



In January 2003, the Company entered into a venture agreement with P&G related to the Company’s Glad

®

bags, wraps and containers business. In connection with this agreement, P&G provides research and development support to the Glad

®

business. The agreement with P&G expires in January 2026 unless the parties agree to extend the term. The agreement requires the Company to purchase P&G’s 20% interest at the expiration of its term for cash at fair value as established by predetermined valuation procedures. As of June 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the estimated fair value of P&G’s interest was

$619 million

, $631 million and $458 million, respectively, of which

$370 million

, $341 million and $317 million, respectively, has been recognized by the Company and is reflected in Other liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The difference between the estimated fair value and the amount recognized, and any future changes in the fair value of P&G’s interest, is charged to Cost of products sold in accordance with the effective interest method over the remaining life of the agreement. The estimated fair value of P&G’s interest, which has increased significantly over the past several years, increased by $161 million from June 30, 2017 to

June 30, 2019

, primarily as a result of the enactment of H.R.1, also known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “Tax Act”), and the extension of the venture agreement with, and the related R&D support provided by, P&G, and may continue to change up until any such purchase by the Company of P&G’s interest. The key assumptions and estimates used to arrive at the estimated fair value include, but are not limited to, tax rates, the rate at which future cash flows are discounted (discount rate), commodity prices, future volume estimates, net sales and expense growth rates, changes in working capital, capital expenditures, foreign exchange rates, inflation and terminal growth rates. Any changes in such assumptions or estimates could significantly affect such estimated fair value and, accordingly, the value of the Company’s repurchase obligation and may adversely affect the Company’s net earnings up until any such purchase and cash flow at the time of any such purchase. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.

Loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel could adversely impact the Company’s business.

The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to retain its key personnel, including its executive officers and senior management team, and to continue to implement its succession plans for senior management and other key employees. The unexpected loss of one or more of the Company’s key employees could disrupt its business. The Company’s success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where there is high wage inflation and the Company’s headquarters and largest research facility are located. In addition, the Company’s employees may be targeted and recruited by other companies. As the Company expands into new categories or markets, including more regulated businesses, it will also require personnel with relevant training and experience in such categories or markets. The Company may not be able to attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, and its failure to do so or the compensation costs of doing so could adversely affect the Company.









Reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruptions to the Company’s business.

The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain commodities and raw material inputs, including sole-source and single-source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. New suppliers have to be qualified under Company standards and may also have to be qualified under governmental and industry standards, and any relevant standards of the Company’s customers, which may require additional investment and time. The Company could experience disruptions in production and other supply chain issues, which could result in out-of-stock conditions, and its results of operations and relationships with customers could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to qualify any needed new suppliers or maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, if it is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for its business, if any of the Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences financial distress, or if any environmental, economic or other outside factors impact its operations.

Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances and climate change. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other purposes.

The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its current and former facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of those facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to whom the Company has sent waste, may be identified and become the subject of remediation. The Company could also become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.

The Company had a recorded liability of$27 millionand$28 millionas of June 30,2019and2018, respectively, for its share of aggregate future remediation costs related to certain environmental matters, including response actions at various locations. One matter, which accounted for$14 millionof the recorded liability as of June 30, 2019 and 2018, relates to environmental costs associated with one of the Company’s former operations at a site located in Alameda County, California. Another matter, in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounted for$11 millionand$12 millionof the recorded liability as of June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s estimated losses related to these matters are sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of any remediation efforts, changes in any remediation requirements, and the future availability of alternative clean-up technologies, and the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount recorded for these matters. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1 for additional information related to these liabilities.

The Company also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at some of its international production facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in transit or at the Company’s facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could result in substantial liability and business disruptions.

Increased focus by governmental and non-governmental organizations, customers, consumers and investors on sustainability issues, including those related to climate change, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage our reputation.



As climate change, land use, water use, deforestation, recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including single-use and other plastic packaging, and other sustainability concerns become more prevalent, governmental and non-governmental organizations, customers, consumers and investors are increasingly focusing on these issues. In particular, changing consumer preferences may result in increased customer and consumer concerns and demands regarding packaging materials, including plastic packaging, and their environmental impact of sustainability, a growing demand for natural or organic products and ingredients, or increased consumer concerns or perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate) regarding the effects of ingredients or substances present in certain consumer products. This increased focus on environmental issues and sustainability may result in new or increased regulations and customer and investor demands that could cause us to incur additional costs or to make changes to our operations to comply with any such regulations and demands.











Concern over climate change may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment.  Increased costs of energy or compliance with emissions standards due to increased legal or regulatory requirements may cause disruptions in or increased costs associated with manufacturing our products. In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or other sustainability concerns could adversely affect our business and reputation.

The facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s control.

Operations at facilities of the Company, its suppliers (including sole-source and single-source suppliers), service providers and retail customers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, cyber-attacks and other disruptions in information technology systems, demonstrations, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, raw material and product quality or safety issues, industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues. The Company’s corporate headquarters and primary research and development facility are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption at the Company or its suppliers were to occur, it could result in injury to people, damages to the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, delays in shipments of products to customers, disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or suspension of operations. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

Failure to maximize, successfully assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness.

If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be negatively impacted.

If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, through the use of third-party marks, ideas or technologies, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of such trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business as well as the obligation to pay for past infringement. If holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use such intellectual property rights, they could require a payment of a substantial amount for continued use of those rights. Either ceasing use or paying such amounts could cause the Company to become less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

Even if the Company is not found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, claims of infringement could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company could incur material legal costs and related expenses to defend against such claims and the Company could incur significant costs associated with discontinuing to use, provide or manufacture certain products, services or trademarks even if it is ultimately found not to have infringed such rights.











The estimates and assumptions on which the Company’s financial projections are based may prove to be inaccurate, which may cause its actual results to materially differ from such projections, which may adversely affect the Company’s future profitability, cash flows and stock price.

The Company’s financial projections are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, category growth, development and launch of innovative new products, market share projections, product pricing, volume and product mix, foreign exchange rates and volatility, commodity prices, distribution, cost savings, accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves, measurement of benefit obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in its existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase its stock, make acquisitions, pay dividends and meet debt obligations. While the Company’s financial projections are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made, the Company’s actual results may differ materially from its financial projections. Any material variation between the Company’s financial projections and its actual results may adversely affect the Company’s future profitability, cash flows and stock price.

The Company’s indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent the Company from fulfilling its financial obligations, and the Company may not be able to maintain its current credit ratings, may not continue to pay dividends or repurchase its stock and may not remain in compliance with existing debt covenants.

As ofJune 30, 2019, the Company had over $2 billion of debt. The Company’s indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:

•require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, dividends, repurchase the Company’s common stock and for other general corporate purposes;

•limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to general adverse economic conditions or changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;

•place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and

•limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s debt documents, its ability to borrow additional funds.



The Company may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, repurchase stock or fund other activities for general business purposes. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could limit its ability to access the debt capital markets or other forms of financing and result in increased borrowing costs. Further, certain terms of the agreements governing the Company’s over-the-counter derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company’s credit ratings, as assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s to the Company, to remain at a level equal to or better than the minimum of an investment grade credit rating. As ofJune 30, 2019, the Company had been assigned investment-grade ratings with both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. However, if the Company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade, the counterparties to the derivative instruments in net liability positions could request full collateralization.



Although the Company has historically declared and paid quarterly cash dividends on its common stock and has been authorized to repurchase its stock subject to certain limitations under its stock repurchase programs, any determinations by the board of directors to continue to declare and pay cash dividends on the Company’s common stock or to repurchase the Company’s common stock will be based primarily upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business requirements, its access to debt capital markets or other forms of financing, the price of its common stock in the case of the repurchase program and the board of directors’ continuing determination that the repurchase programs and the declaration and payment of dividends are in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. In the event the Company does not declare and pay a quarterly dividend or discontinues its stock repurchases, the Company’s stock price could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to compliance with the Company’s existing debt covenants. As of

June 30, 2019

, the Company could add approximately $4 billion in incremental debt and remain in compliance with its debt covenants, although the actual amount that the Company may be able to borrow in the future may exceed this amount. Failure by the Company to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in its debt documents could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.









The Company’s judgments regarding the accounting for tax positions, the resolution of tax disputes and the effects of the Tax Act on our business and our company could be materially different from our current estimates or expectations, all of which could impact the Company's net earnings and cash flow.

Significant judgment is required to determine the Company’s effective tax rate and evaluate its tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable accounting standards. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.

Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may also impact the Company’s effective tax rate and the Company’s results of operations, and changes in tax laws, such as the Tax Act which was signed into law in December 2017, could create uncertainty and have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Tax Act, among other things, significantly changed corporate taxation, including by reducing the U.S. corporation statutory income tax rate to 21% from 35%, imposing a one-time taxation of accumulated foreign earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, placing limitations on the deduction for interest expense, creating immediate tax deductions until January 1, 2023 for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, disallowing deductions for certain performance-based compensation, eliminating the deduction for certain domestic production activities and migrating from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a modified territorial system. While our accounting for the recorded impact of the Tax Act is deemed to be complete, these amounts are based on prevailing regulations and currently available information, and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service could impact our recorded amounts in future periods.



For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1.

The Company’s continued growth and expansion, reliance on third-party service providers and implementation of new accounting standards could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm its business, financial condition and results of operations.









The Company’s business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.

The Company is subject to risks related to its discontinued operations in Venezuela.

In September 2014, the Company’s Venezuela subsidiary discontinued its operations and the Company reported that the Venezuelan government had announced that it had occupied the production facilities of the Company’s Venezuela subsidiary. The Company believes that the Venezuelan government resumed production of bleach and other cleaning products at the Venezuela plants. The Venezuelan government’s actions raise grave concerns, as the production of cleaning products, in particular bleach, is a highly specialized and technical process. The Company has advised repeatedly that it and its affiliates cannot be responsible for the safety of any workers and the surrounding communities or for the safety, quality or effectiveness of any product that may be produced under the Venezuelan government’s takeover or any use of the names and trademarks of the Company and its affiliates. Nevertheless, the Company may face liabilities, costs, or other harm in connection with the operations of the Company’s former Venezuelan subsidiary.



