ITEM 1.Business

General

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions
primarily to the electric power and oil and gas industries in North America and in select international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the
industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, pipeline transmission and distribution systems and facilities, and infrastructure services for the offshore and
inland water energy markets. We also own fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers and have recently expanded our fiber
optic service offerings to include lit network services.

Effective December 31, 2013, Quanta’s Natural Gas and
Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment was renamed the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment to better align with this segment’s service offerings and end-customer markets. No changes have been made to this segment’s financial
results. Our results are reported under three reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services and (3) Fiber Optic Licensing and Other. This structure is generally focused on
broad end-user markets for our services. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were approximately $6.52 billion, of which 69% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 29% to the Oil and
Gas Infrastructure Services segment and 2% to the Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment.

We have established a presence
throughout the United States, Canada and Australia with a workforce of approximately 20,900 employees as of December 31, 2013, which enables us to quickly, reliably and cost-effectively serve a diversified customer base. We believe our
reputation for responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offering, safety leadership and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in
the industries we serve. Our ability to deploy services to customers throughout North America as a result of our broad geographic presence and significant scope and scale of services is particularly important to our customers who operate networks
that span multiple states or regions. We believe these same factors also position us to continue to take advantage of other international opportunities.

Representative customers include:



•    Ameren Corporation•    Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.•    American Electric Power Company, Inc.•    Lower Colorado River Authority•    American Transmission Co.•    Marathon Petroleum Corporation•    Arrow Midstream Holdings•    MarkWest Energy Partners LP•    ATCO Electric LTD•    MidAmerican Energy Company•    Australia Pacific LNG•    National Grid plc•    BC Hydro•    Northeast Utilities System•    Cenovus Energy Inc.•    OGE Energy Corp.•    CenterPoint Energy, Inc.•    PG&E Corporation•    Central Maine Power Company•    Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc.•    Dominion Resources, Inc.•    PPL EnergyPlus•    DTE Energy Co.•    Puget Sound Energy•    Duke Energy Corporation•    SaskPower•    Electric Transmission Texas•    Sharyland Utilities•    Enbridge, Inc.•    SNC Lavalin•    Enterprise Products Partners L.P.•    Solar Project Solutions







•    Exelon Corporation•    South Texas Electric Cooperative•    First Energy•    Southern California Edison Co.•    Georgia Power•    Suncor Energy Inc.•    Google Inc.•    TransCanada Corporation•    ITC Holdings Corp.•    Xcel Energy Inc.

We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997, and since that time we
have grown organically and have made strategic acquisitions, expanding our geographic presence and scope of services and developing new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs.

We believe that our business strategies, along with our competitive and financial strengths, are key elements in
differentiating us from our competition and position us to capitalize on future capital spending by our customers. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships
in each of the industries we serve. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our operating units, and various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies of expanding the
portfolio of services we provide to our existing and potential customer base, increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, promoting best practices and cross-selling our services to our customers, as well as continuing to maintain our
financial strength, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and to expand our operations globally. We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and
good reputations and believe that our financial strength and experienced management team is attractive to potential acquisition targets.

We and our customers continue to operate in a somewhat uncertain business environment, and although there has been gradual
improvement in the economy, our customers continue to face stringent regulatory and environmental requirements as they implement projects to enhance and expand their infrastructure. These economic and regulatory factors have negatively affected the
timing of demand for our services in the past and may create uncertainty with regard to anticipated customer spending in future periods. We cannot definitively predict the timing or magnitude of the effect that industry trends may have on our
business, particularly in the near-term. However, in recent periods we have experienced an increase in project awards and demand for our services, and many projects that had been negatively impacted by regulatory delays have overcome those
challenges and commenced construction.

On December 3, 2012, we sold substantially all of our domestic
telecommunications infrastructure services operations and related subsidiaries. Accordingly, we have presented the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of such telecommunications subsidiaries as discontinued operations for all
applicable periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Reportable Segments

The following is an overview of the types of services provided by each of our reportable segments and certain of the long-term
industry trends impacting each segment.

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power
industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution infrastructure and substation facilities
along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric
power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of







“smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, consisting of solar, wind and
certain types of natural gas generation facilities, and related switchyards and transmission infrastructure to transport power to demand centers. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the construction of electric power
generation facilities, the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.

Several industry trends provide opportunities for growth in demand for the services provided by the Electric Power
Infrastructure Services segment, including the need to improve the reliability of aging power infrastructure, the expected long-term increase in demand for electric power and the incorporation of renewable generation and other new power generation
sources into the North American power grid. We believe that we are the partner of choice for our electric power and renewable energy customers in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources.

Demand for electricity in North America is expected to grow over the long term. North America’s electric power grid was
not designed or constructed to serve today’s power needs and is not adequate to serve the power needs of the future. The electric power grid is aging, continues to deteriorate and lacks redundancy. The increasing demand for electricity, coupled
with the aging infrastructure, has affected and will continue to affect reliability, requiring utilities to upgrade and expand their existing transmission and distribution systems. Current federal legislation also requires the power industry to meet
federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems. These system upgrades are resulting in increased spending and increased demand for our services in the near-term, and we expect this will continue over the long-term as
well.

As demand for power grows, the need for new power generation facilities will grow as well. The future development
of new traditional power generation facilities, as well as renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and certain types of natural gas generation facilities, will require new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport power to demand
centers. Renewable energy in particular often requires significant transmission infrastructure due to the remote location of renewable sources of energy. As a result, we anticipate that future development of new power generation will lead to
increased demand over the long-term for our electric transmission design and construction services as well as our substation engineering and installation services.

The significant improvement in access to natural gas resources in unconventional shale formations in the United States and
Canada, driven by technological advancements, has dramatically increased the near- and long-term supply of natural gas in North America. This increase in supply has also resulted in low natural gas prices for the past several years and the
anticipation that natural gas prices will remain at attractive levels for the next several years. As a result, it is anticipated that the amount of electricity generated by natural gas powered plants will increase and the majority of new fossil fuel
generation facilities built in North America for the foreseeable future will be fueled by natural gas. Further, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has implemented certain emissions regulations that are resulting in the development of natural
gas generation facilities to replace coal generation plants that are being retired in order to comply with the new regulations. These dynamics are anticipated to result in the need for new transmission and substation infrastructure to be built in
North America to interconnect new natural gas fired generation facilities. It is also anticipated that modifications to and reengineering of existing transmission and substation infrastructure will be required when existing coal generation
facilities are retired or shut down.

We consider renewable energy, including solar, wind and certain types of natural gas
generation facilities, to be an ongoing opportunity for our engineering, project management and installation services. Concerns about greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the goal of reducing reliance on power generation from fossil fuels, are
creating the need for more renewable energy sources. Renewable portfolio standards (RPS), which mandate that renewable energy constitute a specified percentage of a utility’s power generation by a specified date, exist in many states. We
believe that our comprehensive services, industry knowledge and experience in the design,







installation and maintenance of renewable energy facilities will enable us to support our customers’ renewable energy efforts. Further, we have the financial strength to selectively provide
financing solutions to customers in a modest but strategic way to help facilitate the development of renewable energy and other projects and also potentially create construction backlog for us.

Certain legislative and regulatory actions may also increase demand for our electric power infrastructure services. For
example, in July 2011, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued Order No. 1000, which establishes transmission planning and cost allocation requirements for public utility transmission providers that are intended to facilitate
multi-state electric transmission lines. The order requires planning for transmission to occur on both a local and regional basis and to take into account transmission needs driven by public policy requirements. It also provides rules for cost
allocation across areas so that transmission costs are paid for by the beneficiaries of the infrastructure to be developed. The order also removes certain rights of first refusal from FERC-approved tariffs and agreements, which is intended to
encourage a more competitive marketplace for transmission infrastructure development and allow development to occur more quickly. We believe that certain legislative and regulatory actions, such as FERC Order No. 1000, which was affirmed by
FERC in May 2012, with the issuance of FERC Order No. 1000-A, could have a favorable impact on the development of transmission infrastructure over the medium- and long-term, and as a result, increase demand for our electric transmission
services.

Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services Segment

The Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the
development and transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of pipeline transmission and
distribution systems, gathering systems, production systems and compressor and pump stations, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection,
integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. In 2013, we expanded into the offshore and inland water energy markets, primarily providing services to oil and gas
exploration platforms, including mechanical installation (or “hook-ups”), electrical and instrumentation, pre-commissioning and commissioning, coatings, fabrication, pipeline construction, integrity services and marine asset repair. To a
lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.

We see potential growth opportunities in this segment, primarily in the installation and maintenance of natural gas, natural
gas byproducts and oil pipelines and related services for gathering systems and pipeline integrity. In particular, we believe the existing pipeline and gathering system infrastructure in North America is insufficient to support the increasing
development of new sources of natural gas, oil and other liquids, such as the unconventional shale formations and Canadian oil sands. We anticipate it will take several years to build this infrastructure and believe this need will increase demand
for our services over time. To diversify our mainline pipe service offerings, we have focused on opportunities to provide our infrastructure services for gathering systems and related facilities, particularly in the liquid-rich shale formations. We
are increasing our presence in the areas of several shale formations through the establishment of local offices to better position us to pursue these opportunities.

Ongoing development of unconventional shale formations throughout North America has resulted in a significant increase in the
continent’s natural gas supply as compared to several years ago. We believe the abundant natural gas supply, combined with lower gas prices, will stimulate demand for increased natural gas usage in the future. As one of the cleanest-burning
fossil fuels for power generation, low-cost natural gas supports the U.S. goals of energy independence from foreign energy sources and a cleaner environment. The U.S. Energy Information Administration has stated that the number of natural
gas-fired power plants built will increase significantly over the next two decades. Also, power generation from renewable energy sources







continues to increase and become a larger percentage of the overall power generation mix. We also believe natural gas will be the fuel of choice to provide backup power generation during times
when renewable energy sources are not available. Additionally, the acceptance of nuclear energy as a means of meeting the growing demand for energy in North America remains uncertain. We believe these factors will result in increasing development of
natural gas power generation to meet North America’s future energy needs, which will in turn result in increased demand for natural gas production and the need for additional pipeline infrastructure to connect natural gas supplies to demand
centers, increasing the demand for our services.

The abundance, low price and long-term supply of North American natural
gas is also resulting in efforts to develop liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facilities in the United States and Canada, which could provide pipeline and related facilities development opportunities for us. Natural gas prices in various
international markets are significantly higher than North American natural gas prices, making the economics of exporting North American natural gas to international markets attractive. Although a number of LNG export facilities are in various stages
of planning, permitting and development in the United States and Canada, and it is unlikely that all of them will be developed, we believe our comprehensive service offerings and broad geographic presence will enable us to competitively pursue these
opportunities.

We also believe there are significant mainline pipeline opportunities in Australia driven by the
production of coal seam gas for LNG export. A number of LNG export facilities are under construction and proposed for development, and pipelines and related infrastructure will be required to serve these facilities. In addition, unconventional shale
plays in Australia are in the early stages of exploration and development and will require construction of significant gathering, mainline and related infrastructure. Through an acquisition in Australia in 2013, we further expanded our presence in
this region and competitively positioned ourselves to meet Australia’s increasing infrastructure needs.

Additional
pipeline infrastructure is also needed for the transportation of crude oil and other liquids from unconventional shale formations in the United States and Canada. Heavy crude oil from the Canadian oil sands is also being developed and requires
pipelines to be built to take the product to refineries, many of which are in the coastal region along the Gulf of Mexico. Canadian oil sands and shale formations in certain parts of the U.S. and Canada contain significant reserves, and the
economics of the production of these reserves depend on the price of oil. Oil prices are currently at a level that encourages the development of these oil reserves, which will require pipeline infrastructure to be built. We believe this need will
increase demand for our services.

Other infrastructure, primarily midstream gathering systems, is also needed to support
the development of unconventional shale formations. To diversify our transmission pipeline service offerings, we are also focusing on opportunities to provide our infrastructure services for gathering systems and related facilities, particularly in
liquids-rich shale formations.

We believe there are meaningful opportunities for us to penetrate the offshore and inland
water energy markets in providing various infrastructure design, installation and maintenance services primarily to the Gulf of Mexico region but also in select international markets. The offshore service opportunities we see are very similar to
what we perform onshore in this segment, and several of our existing onshore customers who also have offshore assets have expressed interest in our ability to provide offshore services. Demand for offshore energy infrastructure services is similar
to that on land, including the need for engineering, construction and maintenance services for new and existing offshore exploration and production platforms. In addition, the majority of the thousands of miles of marine based pipelines and related
production facilities are approaching or are beyond the end of their useful lives. We see this as an opportunity to leverage our onshore pipeline integrity services and technology to the offshore market’s aging infrastructure. Further, we
believe new regulations and the more stringent enforcement of existing regulations administered by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement may create opportunities for offshore energy infrastructure construction, repair and replacement
services.







As a result of recent significant pipeline incidents in the United States,
federal and state regulatory agencies are implementing new pipeline safety rules and increasing enforcement activities. The U.S. Department of Transportation has implemented significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline integrity requirements. Testing is expected to become more frequent, extensive and invasive, and more information will be available regarding the condition of the United States’ pipeline
infrastructure. As a result, we anticipate a significant increase in spending allocated to pipeline integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement services, and an increase in demand for the related services we provide over the coming years. We
expect companies will increasingly seek out service providers that can provide a turnkey management solution. We believe we are one of the few companies in North America that offers a complete solution for pipeline companies and gas utilities as
they focus on testing, rehabilitating and replacing their pipeline infrastructure.

Fiber Optic Licensing and Other
Segment

The growth opportunities in our Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment include the continued investment in our dark fiber
networks to serve customers in new geographic regions as well as the expansion into lit services. We see opportunities for lit services for customers in multiple institutional sectors, including communications carriers as well as education,
financial services, healthcare and other business enterprises. These growth opportunities exist in both the markets we currently serve, by expanding our existing network to add new customers, and expansion into new markets through the build-out of
new networks. This expected growth will require significant capital expenditures to support our network expansion efforts.

Financial
Information about Geographic Areas

We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $1.31 billion,
$861.5 million and $535.0 million of our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Of our foreign revenues, approximately 86%, 96% and 97% were earned in Canada during the years
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of $196.8 million and $151.9 million in foreign countries, primarily Canada, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.

Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and
fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability. Refer to Item 1A.“Risk Factors”for additional information.

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships

Our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We
have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in







the industries we serve. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013. Our largest customer accounted for
approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Although we have a centralized
marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer
relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project
evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. We encourage operating unit
management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. Our business development group supports the
operating units’ activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units.

We are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. As a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific
category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the
applicable customer.

We believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power and oil and gas
industries will continue to result in future opportunities. Many of these relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. Strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a
period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years
that may include renewal options to extend the initial term.

Backlog

Backlog is not a term recognized under United States generally accepted accounting principles; however, it is a common
measurement used in our industry. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies.

Our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenue that we expect to realize from future work under construction
contracts, long-term maintenance contracts, master service agreements (MSAs) and licensing agreements. These estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as
revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. For purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable
to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (VIEs). The following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized
within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands):



Backlog as ofDecember 31, 2013Backlog as ofDecember 31, 201212 MonthTotal12 MonthTotalElectric Power Infrastructure Services$3,346,721$5,964,061$2,864,870$4,918,178Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services1,515,6122,218,503797,0441,566,316Fiber Optic Licensing and Other137,883545,503145,039502,523Total$5,000,216$8,728,067$3,806,953$6,987,017







Revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of
project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. These factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels
different than originally projected. Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and while we did not experience any material cancellations during the current periods, most of our
contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. We determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under MSAs by using recurring historical trends inherent in current MSAs,
factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. In addition, many of our MSAs, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. As of December 31,
2013 and 2012, MSAs accounted for approximately 31% and 34% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 44% and 45% of total backlog. There can be no assurance as to our customers’ actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate.

Competition

Employees







We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by
collective bargaining agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash
contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage and to
attract qualified employees, we utilize various IBEW and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified electrical workers. Certain of our Canadian
operations also support the CUSW’s apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. We have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor
for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.

We believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good.

Materials

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may
procure all or part of the materials required. As we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings (EPC), particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a
proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. We purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials.

Training, Quality Assurance and Safety







Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:



•licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers;



•regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection;



•permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;



•wage and hour regulations;



•regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements;



•building and electrical codes;



•telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and



•special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.

We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with
applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or
disqualify us from future bidding opportunities.

Environmental Matters and Climate Change Impacts

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental
noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect
on our business or financial performance.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly
uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 1A.“Risk Factors”, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. Therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change
results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. In addition,







if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which
generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. Conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which
could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins.

Risk Management and Insurance

We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. On
August 1, 2013, we renewed our employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation policies for the 2013 - 2014 policy year. As a result of the renewal, the deductibles for general liability and auto
liability increased from $5.0 million to $10.0 million per occurrence, while the deductible for workers’ compensation remained at $5.0 million per occurrence and the deductible for employer’s liability remained at $1.0 million per
occurrence. Additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance programs has increased. Between August 1, 2009 and July 31, 2013, all policy
deductible levels were $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which was subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining
agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year.

Losses under all of
these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to
assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known
facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $161.8 million and $160.8 million, with $122.6 million and $120.2 million
considered to be long term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $9.1 million and $22.2 million, of which $0.7 million and $2.3 million are included in
prepaid expenses and other current assets and $8.4 million and $19.9 million are included in other assets, net.

We renew
our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect
not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect
our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Seasonality and Cyclicality

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by
weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays in projects. In addition,
many of our customers develop their capital budgets for the coming year during the first quarter and do not begin infrastructure projects in a meaningful way until their capital budgets are finalized. Second quarter revenues are typically higher
than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and
weather is more accommodating. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted
positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the







holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a
given part of the world, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. The timing of project awards and unanticipated
changes in project schedules as a result of delays or accelerations can also create variations in the level of operating activity from quarter to quarter.

These seasonal impacts are typical for our U.S. operations, but as our foreign operations continue to grow, we may see a
lessening of this pattern impacting our quarterly revenues. For example, revenues in Canada are often higher in the first quarter as projects are accelerated so that work can be completed prior to the “break up”, as productivity is
adversely affected by wet ground conditions during the warmer spring and summer months. Also, although revenues from Australia and other international operations have not been significant to our overall revenues to date, their seasonal patterns may
differ from those in North America and may impact our seasonality more in the future.

Additionally, our industry can be
highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions, including the United States, Canada and Australia. Project schedules, particularly in connection with
larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects
performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions, dispositions, fluctuations in
our equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the
results that can be expected for any other period. You should read“Outlook”and“Understanding Margins”included in Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations”for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Website Access and Other Information



