ITEM 1.Business



General



Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading national provider of
    specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure
    solutions to the electric power, natural gas, oil and
    telecommunications industries. The services we provide include
    the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of
    infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as
    electric power transmission and distribution networks and
    substation facilities, natural gas and oil transmission and
    distribution systems, and fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable
    networks used for video, data and voice transmission. We also
    design, procure, construct and maintain fiber optic
    telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license
    the right to use thesepoint-to-pointfiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.



We report our results under four reportable segments:
    (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services,
    (2) Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services,
    (3) Telecommunications Infrastructure Services and
    (4) Fiber Optic Licensing. These reportable segments are
    based on the types of services we provide. Our consolidated
    revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were
    approximately $3.32 billion, of which 62% was attributable
    to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 24% to
    the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment,
    11% to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment
    and 3% to the Fiber Optic Licensing segment.



We have established a nationwide presence with a workforce of
    over 14,500 employees, which enables us to quickly,
    reliably and cost-effectively serve a diversified customer base.
    We believe our reputation for responsiveness and performance,
    geographic reach, comprehensive service offering, safety
    leadership and financial strength have resulted in strong
    relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the
    leading companies in the industries we serve. Our ability to
    deploy services to customers throughout North America as a
    result of our broad geographic presence and significant scale
    and scope of services is particularly important to our customers
    who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. We
    believe these same factors also position us to take advantage of
    potential international opportunities.



Representative customers include:



•Alabama Power Company•Ameren•American Electric Power•America Transmission Company•AT&T•BC Transmission Corporation•CenterPoint Energy•Commonwealth Edison•Duke Energy•Energy Transfer Partners•Entergy•Enterprise Products•Florida Power & Light•Georgia Power Company•International Transmission Company•Kansas City Power & Light•Kinder Morgan•Lower Colorado River Authority•Mid American Energy•National Grid•NextEra•Northeast Utilities System•Oklahoma Gas & Electric•Pacific Gas & Electric•PacificCorp•Puget Sound Energy•Qwest•Regency Energy Partners•San Diego Gas & Electric•Sempra Energy Company•South Carolina Power & Light•Southern California Edison•TransCanada•Verizon Communications•Westar Energy•Xcel Energy



We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in
    1997, and since that time we have grown organically and made
    strategic acquisitions, expanding our geographic presence and
    scope of services and developing new capabilities to meet our
    customers’ evolving needs. In particular, in the past three
    years, we have completed two significant acquisitions, as well
    as several smaller acquisitions. On October 1, 2009, Quanta
    acquired Price Gregory Services, Incorporated (Price Gregory),
    which provides natural gas and oil transmission







We believe that our business strategies, along with our
    competitive and financial strengths, are key elements in
    differentiating us from our competition and position us to
    capitalize on future capital spending by our customers over the
    long-term. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a
    broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing
    customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We
    also have an experienced management team, both at the executive
    level and within our operating units, and various proprietary
    technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies
    of expanding the portfolio of services we provide to our
    existing and potential customer base, increasing our geographic
    and technological capabilities and promoting best practices and
    cross-selling our services to our customers, as well as
    continuing to maintain our financial strength, place us in a
    strong position to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in
    the industries we serve and to expand our operations globally.



Reportable
    Segments



The following is an overview of the types of services provided
    by each of our reportable segments and certain of the long-term
    industry trends impacting each segment. With respect to industry
    trends, we and our customers continue to operate in a
    challenging business environment in light of the economic
    downturn and weak capital markets. These factors have adversely
    affected demand for our services, and demand may continue to be
    impacted until conditions improve. Therefore, we cannot predict
    the timing or magnitude that industry trends may have on our
    business, particularly in the near-term.



Electric
    Power Infrastructure Services Segment



The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides
    comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric
    power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power
    Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design,
    installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power
    transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities
    along with other engineering and technical services. This
    segment also provides emergency restoration services, including
    repairing infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the
    energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric
    power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick
    methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the
    installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric
    power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and
    maintains wind turbine facilities and solar arrays and related
    switchyards and transmission networks for renewable power
    generation sources. To a lesser extent, this segment provides
    services such as the design, installation, maintenance and
    repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of
    traffic networks and the installation of cable and control
    systems for light rail lines.



Several industry trends provide opportunities for growth in
    demand for the services provided by the Electric Power
    Infrastructure Services segment, including the need to improve
    the reliability of the aging power infrastructure, the expected
    long-term increase in demand for electric power and the
    incorporation of renewable energy and other new power generation
    sources into the North American power grid. We believe that we
    are the partner of choice for our electric power and renewable
    energy customers in need of broad infrastructure expertise,
    specialty equipment and workforce resources.





Demand for electricity in North America is expected to grow over
    the long-term, but the U.S. and Canadian electric power
    grids are aging, continue to deteriorate and lack redundancy.
    This increasing demand, coupled with the aging infrastructure,
    will affect reliability, requiring utilities to upgrade and
    expand their existing transmission and distribution systems.
    Further, current federal legislation requires the power industry
    to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and
    distribution systems. We expect these system upgrades to result
    in increased spending and increased demand for our services over
    the long-term.



We consider renewable energy, including wind and solar, to be
    one of the largest, most rapidly emerging opportunities for our
    engineering, project management and installation services.
    Concerns about greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the goal of
    reducing reliance on power generation from fossil fuels, are
    creating the need for more renewable energy sources. Renewable
    portfolio standards, which mandate that renewable energy
    constitute a specified percentage of a utility’s power
    generation, exist in many states. Additionally, several of the
    provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
    (ARRA) include incentives for investments in renewable energy,
    energy efficiency and related infrastructure. We believe that
    our comprehensive services, industry knowledge and experience in
    the design, installation and maintenance of renewable energy
    facilities will enable us to support our customers’
    renewable energy efforts.



As demand for power grows, the need for new power generation
    facilities will grow as well. The future development of new
    traditional power generation facilities, as well as renewable
    energy sources, will require new or expanded transmission
    infrastructure to transport power to demand centers. Renewable
    energy in particular often requires significant transmission
    infrastructure due to the remote location of renewable sources
    of energy. As a result, we anticipate that future development of
    new power generation will lead to increased demand over the
    long-term for our electric transmission design and construction
    services, and our substation engineering and installation
    services.



Natural
    Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment



The Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment
    provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved
    in the transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline
    products. Services performed by the Natural Gas and Pipeline
    Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design,
    installation, repair and maintenance of natural gas and oil
    transmission and distribution systems, compressor and pump
    stations and gas gathering systems, as well as related
    trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In
    addition, this segment’s services include pipeline
    protection, pipeline integrity and rehabilitation and
    fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures
    and facilities. This segment also provides emergency restoration
    services, including repairing natural gas and oil pipeline
    infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent,
    this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling
    systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.



We see potential growth opportunities over the long-term in our
    natural gas operations, primarily in natural gas pipeline
    installation and maintenance services and related services for
    gas gathering systems and pipeline integrity. Ongoing
    development of gas shale formations throughout the United States
    has resulted in a significant increase in the natural gas supply
    as compared to several years ago, leading to a reduction in
    natural gas prices from the levels in the 2003 to 2008 period.
    Additionally, as the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, low-cost
    natural gas supports the U.S. goals of energy independence from
    foreign energy sources and a cleaner environment.



The U.S. Department of Energy has stated that most fossil
    fuel generation infrastructure built over the next two decades
    will likely be natural gas-fired power plants. In addition, as
    renewable energy generation continues to increase and become a
    larger percentage of the overall power generation mix, we
    believe natural gas will be the fuel of choice to provide backup
    power generation to offset renewable energy intermittency. We
    also anticipate that the above factors bode well for natural gas
    as a transitional fuel to nuclear power over the next several
    decades.



We believe the existing transmission pipeline infrastructure is
    insufficient to meet this growing natural gas demand even at
    current levels of consumption. For instance, it is estimated
    that it would take several years to build the transmission
    infrastructure to connect new sources of natural gas to demand
    centers throughout the U.S. Our





recent acquisition of Price Gregory, which significantly expands
    our natural gas services and positions us as a leading provider
    of transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North
    America, will allow us to take advantage of these opportunities.



The U.S. Department of Transportation has also implemented
    significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and
    Hazardous Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline
    integrity requirements that we expect will increase the demand
    for our pipeline integrity and rehabilitation services over the
    long-term.



Telecommunications
    Infrastructure Services Segment



The Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment
    predominantly provides comprehensive network solutions to
    customers in the telecommunications and cable television
    industries. Services performed by the Telecommunications
    Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design,
    installation, repair and maintenance of fiber optic, copper and
    coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice
    transmission, as well as the design and installation of wireless
    communications towers and switching systems. This segment also
    provides emergency restoration services, including repairing
    telecommunications infrastructure damaged by inclement weather.
    To a lesser extent, services provided under this segment include
    cable locating, splicing and testing of fiber optic networks and
    residential installation of fiber optic cabling.



We believe that several of the large telecommunications
    companies remain committed to their fiber to the premises (FTTP)
    and fiber to the node (FTTN) initiatives over the long-term. We
    believe the rate of growth in fiber network build-outs will
    continue to increase over the long-term as more Americans look
    to next-generation networks for faster internet and more robust
    video services. While not all of the spending in the FTTP and
    FTTN initiatives will be for services that we provide, we
    believe that we are well-positioned to furnish infrastructure
    solutions for these initiatives throughout the United States. We
    also anticipate increased long-term opportunities arising from
    plans by several wireless companies to transition to 4G
    technology, as well as the installation of fiber optic
    “backhaul” to provide links from wireless cell sites
    to broader voice, data and video networks.



We also believe that certain provisions of the ARRA could create
    demand for our services over the long-term. Specifically, the
    ARRA includes funding provisions for the deployment of
    high-speed internet to rural areas that lack sufficient
    bandwidth to adequately support economic development, as well as
    funding to states for restoration, repair and construction of
    highways, which may create the need for relocation and upgrade
    of telecommunications infrastructure.



Fiber
    Optic Licensing Segment



The Fiber Optic Licensing segment designs, procures, constructs
    and maintains fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in
    select markets and licenses the right to use thesepoint-to-pointfiber optic telecommunications facilities to its customers
    pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with lease terms
    from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal
    options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the
    right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic
    facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. The
    Fiber Optic Licensing segment provides services to educational
    and healthcare institutions, large industrial and financial
    services customers and other entities with high bandwidth
    telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided
    through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal
    Communications Commission and certain state public utility
    commissions.



The growth opportunities in our Fiber Optic Licensing segment
    primarily relate to geographic expansion to serve customers who
    need secure high-speed networks, in particular education and
    healthcare institutions. Opportunities for geographic expansion
    exist in both our markets we currently serve, which entails
    expanding our existing network to add new customers, and new
    markets involving the build-out of new networks. Growth in this
    segment will generate the need for continued significant capital
    expenditures.



Financial
    Information about Geographic Areas



We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived
    $71.5 million, $98.8 million and $112.2 million
    of our revenues from foreign operations, the majority of which
    was earned in Canada, during the years ended





December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. In
    addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of
    $9.0 million, $6.5 million and $57.1 million in
    foreign countries as of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009,
    respectively.



Our business, financial condition and results of operations in
    foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and
    fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, energy shortages,
    regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic
    developments or instability. Refer to Item 1A.“Risk Factors”for additional information.



Customers,
    Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider
    Relationships



Our customers include electric power, natural gas, oil,
    telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as
    commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest
    customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated
    revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our
    largest customer accounted for approximately 5% of our
    consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009.



Although we have a centralized marketing strategy, management at
    each of our operating units is responsible for developing and
    maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers.
    Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer
    relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue
    from our current customer base. Many of these customer
    relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through
    a partnering approach to account management that includes
    project evaluation and consulting, quality performance,
    performance measurement and direct customer contact. On an
    operating unit level, management maintains a parallel focus on
    pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We
    continue to encourage operating unit management to cross-sell
    services of other operating units to their customers. In
    addition, our business development group promotes and markets
    our services for prospective large national accounts and
    projects that would require services from multiple operating
    units.



We strive to maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our
    customers. Many of our customers and prospective customers
    maintain a list of preferred vendors with whom the customer
    enters into a formal contractual agreement as a result of arequest-for-proposalprocess. As a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards
    for a specific category of service, maintain a high level of
    performance and agree to certain payment terms and negotiated
    rates.



We believe that our strategic relationships with customers in
    the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications
    industries will continue to result in future opportunities. Many
    of these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic
    alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. Strategic alliance
    agreements generally state an intention to work together, and
    many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic
    alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically
    agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four
    years that may include an option to add extensions at the end of
    the initial term. Certain of our strategic alliance and
    long-term maintenance agreements are “evergreen”
    contracts with exclusivity clauses providing that we will be
    awarded all contracts, or giving us a right of first refusal for
    contracts, for a certain type of work or work in a certain
    geographic region.



Backlog



Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to
    realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted
    contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work
    has not begun. The backlog estimates include amounts under
    long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction
    contracts. We determine the amount of backlog for work under
    long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements
    (MSAs), by using recurring historical trends inherent in the
    current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected
    customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the
    customer. We also include in backlog our share of work to be
    performed under contracts signed by joint ventures in which we
    have an ownership interest. The following tables





present our total backlog by reportable segment as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 along with an estimate of the
    backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of
    each balance sheet date (in $000’s):



Backlog as ofBacklog as ofDecember 31, 2009December 31, 200812 MonthTotal12 MonthTotalElectric Power Infrastructure Services$1,312,141$3,855,320$1,629,474$3,556,191Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services847,7021,120,795584,602847,641Telecommunications Infrastructure Services222,999285,295290,846406,831Fiber Optic Licensing87,786387,37372,378381,907Total$2,470,628$5,648,783$2,577,300$5,192,570





Information quantifying our backlog by reportable segment was
    not captured for the 2007 period; however, our total backlog at
    December 31, 2007 was approximately $4.67 billion, of
    which the 12 month backlog was approximately $2.36 billion.



As discussed above, our backlog estimates include amounts under
    MSAs. In many instances, our customers are not contractually
    committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and
    many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. There can
    be no assurance as to our customers’ requirements or that
    our estimates are accurate. In addition, many of our MSAs, as
    well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to
    renewal options. For purposes of calculating backlog, we have
    included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals
    can reasonably be expected to occur.



Competition





Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 2,260 salaried employees,
    including executive officers, professional and administrative
    staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and
    clerical personnel, and 12,413 hourly employees, the number
    of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the
    projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 44%
    of our hourly employees at December 31, 2009 were covered
    by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the
    International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and the
    four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the Pipe
    Line Contractors Association (PLCA), which are the





Laborers International Union of North America, International
    Brotherhood of Teamsters, United Association of Plumbers and
    Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers.
    These collective bargaining agreements require the payment of
    specified wages to our union employees, the observance of
    certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to
    multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather
    than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. These
    collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and
    expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining
    agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or
    strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to
    agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute
    resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.



We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who
    are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a
    401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not
    provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining
    agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We
    make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s
    contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of
    each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such
    employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by
    law.



Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in
    certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage, we seek
    to take advantage of various IBEW and National Electrical
    Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the
    joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified
    electrical workers. We have also established apprenticeship
    training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor
    for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship
    Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific
    employee training and educational programs.



We believe our relationships with our employees and union
    representatives are good.



Materials



Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials
    required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we
    may procure all or part of the materials required. We purchase
    such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate
    experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such
    materials.



Training,
    Quality Assurance and Safety



on-the-job



Regulation



Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international laws and regulations including:



•licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to
    electricians and engineers;







•building and electrical codes;•permitting and inspection requirements applicable to
    construction projects;•regulations relating to worker safety and environmental
    protection;•telecommunication regulations affecting our fiber optic
    licensing business; and•special bidding, procurement and other requirements on
    government projects.



We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our
    operations and that we are in substantial compliance with
    applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with
    applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or
    revocation of our operating licenses.



Environmental
    Matters and Climate Change Impacts





From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for
    correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for
    remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We
    believe that we are in substantial compliance with our
    environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations
    will not have a material adverse effect on our business or
    financial performance.



The potential physical impacts of climate change on our
    operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in,
    among other things, changing rainfall patterns, changing storm
    patterns and intensities and changing temperature levels. As
    discussed below, our operating results are significantly
    influenced by weather. Therefore, significant changes in
    historical weather patterns could significantly impact our
    future operating results. For example, if climate change results
    in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a
    greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to
    increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on
    our revenues and gross margins. In addition, if climate change
    results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and
    ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher
    margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a
    positive impact on our gross margins. Conversely, if climate
    change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or
    other less accommodating weather over a greater period of time
    in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity,
    which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins.



Risk
    Management and Insurance



We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability,
    auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. As of
    August 1, 2009, we renewed our employer’s liability,
    general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation
    policies for the current 2009 to 2010 policy year. As a result
    of the renewal, the deductibles for all policies have increased
    to $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s
    liability which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million.
    Additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of
    letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under
    our casualty insurance program, which is discussed further
    below, has increased. We also have





employee health care benefit plans for most employees not
    subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the
    primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant
    per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009,
    employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of
    $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto
    liability claims were subject to a deductible of
    $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation
    claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per
    occurrence. Additionally, for the same period, our workers’
    compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative
    aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in
    excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles have
    varied in periods prior to August 1, 2008.



Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based
    upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported
    and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with
    assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance
    liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown
    factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination
    of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of
    incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety
    program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical
    trends, and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As
    of December 31, 2008 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for
    insurance claims totaled $147.9 million and
    $153.6 million, with $105.0 million and
    $109.8 million considered to be long-term and included in
    other non-current liabilities. Related insurance
    recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2009
    were $12.5 million and $33.7 million, of which
    $7.2 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid
    expenses and other current assets and $5.3 million and
    $20.3 million are included in other assets, net.



We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and
    therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may
    change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our
    coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or
    the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. In any
    such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which
    could have a material adverse impact on our business or
    financial performance.



Seasonality
    and Cyclicality



Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to
    seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced
    by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project
    schedules and timing and holidays. Typically, our revenues are
    lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or
    wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically
    better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued
    cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter
    productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the
    year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather
    is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues during the
    fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third
    quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are
    completed in the fourth quarter and revenues often are impacted
    positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget
    before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and
    inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce
    revenues and increase costs.



Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and
    fall months due to increased construction activity in weather
    affected regions of the country. Conversely, working capital
    assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months.



Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result,
    our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or
    delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the
    United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection
    with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations
    in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a
    given period. The financial condition of our customers and their
    access to capital, variations in the margins of projects
    performed during any particular period, regional, national and
    global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions,
    the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs,
    interest rate fluctuations and other factors may also materially
    affect our periodic results. Accordingly, our operating results
    for any particular period may not be indicative of the results
    that can be expected for any other period. An investor should
    read“Understanding Gross Margins”and“Outlook”included in Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations”for additional
    discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Website
    Access and Other Information



Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. You may obtain
    free electronic copies of our Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,and any amendments to these





reports through our website under the heading “SEC
    Filings” or through the website of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are
    available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
    we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC.
    In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics
    and Business Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee,
    Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee
    are posted on our website under the heading “Corporate
    Governance.” We intend to disclose on our website any
    amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
    that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 ofForm 8-K.You may obtain free copies of these items from our website or by
    contacting our Corporate Secretary. This Annual Report onForm 10-Kand our website contain information provided by other sources
    that we believe are reliable. We cannot assure you that the
    information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete.
    No information on our website is incorporated by reference
    herein.



