10-K


g80935e10vk.htm

EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY

EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from          to

Commission file number 1-12626

EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

62-1539359

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. employer

identification no.)

100 N. Eastman Road

Kingsport, Tennessee


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (423) 229-2000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share

(including rights to purchase shares of

Common Stock or Participating Preferred Stock)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

PAGE 1
OF 190 TOTAL SEQUENTIALLY NUMBERED PAGES

EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 120



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).   Yes

x

No

o

The aggregate market value (based upon the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange on June 30, 2002) of the 77,085,937 shares of common equity held by
nonaffiliates as of December 31, 2002 was approximately $3,615,330,445, using
beneficial ownership rules adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to exclude common stock that may be deemed
beneficially owned as of December 31, 2002 by the current directors and
executive officers and Eastman Chemical Company’s (“Eastman” or the “Company”)
charitable foundation, some of whom might not be held to be affiliates upon
judicial determination. At December 31, 2002, 77,346,296 shares of common stock
of the registrant were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 2003
Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2003 Proxy Statement”), to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, are incorporated by reference in Part
III, Items 10 to 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Annual Report”) as
indicated herein.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking in nature as
defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements and other written and oral forward-looking statements made by the
Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as
planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital
spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; legal
proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy
costs and foreign currencies; global and regional economic, political, and
business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand,
volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and
other expected financial conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for
individual products, businesses, segments and divisions as well as for the
whole of Eastman; cash requirements and uses of available
cash; financing plans; pension expenses and funding; future expenses and
insurance settlement associated with operational disruptions; credit rating;
cost reduction and control efforts and targets; integration and rationalization
of acquired businesses; development, production, commercialization, and
acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; and
business, asset and product portfolio changes.

These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions,
including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in
turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions
and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other
factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are
necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future
conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from
expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the
underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is
unrealized. Certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included with such
forward-looking statements and in Part II—Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking
Statements and Risk Factors.”




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES


ITEM

PAGE

PART I

1.

Business

4-26

Executive Officers of the Company


2.

Properties

28-29

3.

Legal Proceedings

30-31

4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


PART II

5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters


6.

Selected Financial Data


7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
 and Results of Operations

35-65

7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

67-111

9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure


PART III

10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


11.

Executive Compensation


12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

113-114

13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions


14.

Controls and Procedures


PART IV

15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


SIGNATURES

Signatures

116-117

Certifications

118-119



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

CORPORATE PROFILE

Eastman Chemical Company (“Eastman” or the “Company”), a global chemical
company engaged in the manufacture and sale of a broad portfolio of chemicals,
plastics, and fibers, began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing
chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company’s (“Kodak’s”) photographic business. The
Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1993 and became an independent entity
as of December 31, 1993, when Kodak spun off its chemicals business. The
Company’s headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport,
Tennessee.

Eastman is the largest producer of polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) polymers
for packaging based on capacity share and is a leading supplier of raw materials
for paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts, adhesives, textile sizes, and
other formulated products, and of cellulose acetate fibers. Eastman has 41
manufacturing sites in 17 countries that supply major chemicals, fibers, and
plastics products to customers throughout the world. In 2002, the Company had
sales revenue of $5.3 billion, operating earnings of $208 million, and net
earnings of $61 million. Earnings per diluted share were $0.79.

The Company’s products and operations are managed and reported in five
operating segments. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company implemented a
divisional structure that separated the businesses into two divisions. Eastman
Division consists of the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks
(“CASPI”) segment, the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (“PCI”) segment
and the Specialty Plastics (“SP”) segment. Voridian Division contains the
Polymers segment and the Fibers segment.

EASTMAN DIVISION

Business and Industry Overview

Operating in a variety of markets with varying growth prospects and competitive
factors, the segments in Eastman Division manufacture a diverse portfolio of
specialty chemicals and plastics that are used in a wide range of consumer and
industrial markets. With 35 manufacturing sites in 15 countries, Eastman
Division is focused on providing its customers with chemicals and plastics
products that meet their evolving needs. Eastman Division is comprised of the
following segments: CASPI, PCI, and SP, which are more fully discussed below.

The CASPI segment generally competes in the markets for raw materials for
paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts and adhesives. Growth in these
markets in North America and Europe typically coincides with economic growth in
general, due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications and the
particular dependence on the economic conditions of the market for durable
goods. Higher growth sub-markets exist within North America and Europe, driven
primarily by increasing governmental regulation. Industry participants are
promoting, for example, products and technologies primarily designed to reduce
air emissions. Growth outside of North America and Europe is substantially
higher, driven primarily by the increasing requirements of industrializing
economies. The adhesives raw materials market historical growth rate has been
consistent with general economic growth. In addition to steady overall market
growth, Eastman believes that greater growth opportunities exist for hot melt
adhesives due to their superior performance characteristics and the resulting
ability to displace other adhesives.

The PCI segment competes in diverse markets for its intermediates, specialty
organic and custom manufacturing chemicals offerings. Specialty organic
chemicals products are specifically developed based on product performance
criteria, which make market quantification difficult. Instead, the focus in
this market is on specific opportunities for value added products, and market
size, growth opportunities and other industry characteristics are a function of
the level and extent to which a producer chooses to participate in niche
opportunities driven by these customer specifications. For other PCI products,
the markets are varied, from durables to food products to pharmaceuticals and,
although opportunities for differentiation on service and product offerings
exist, these products compete primarily on price.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

The SP segment competes in the market for the development of plastics that meet
specific performance criteria, typically determined on an
application-by-application basis. Development is dependent upon a
manufacturer’s ability to design products that achieve specific performance
characteristics determined by the customer, while doing so either more
effectively or more efficiently than alternative materials such as
polycarbonate (“PC”) and acrylic. Increases in market share are gained through
the development of new applications, substitution of plastic for other
materials, and particularly, displacement by plastic resins in existing
applications. The Company estimates that the market growth for copolyesters,
which has historically been high due to the relatively small market size, will
be substantially higher than general economic growth due to displacement
opportunities. Eastman believes that growth of the cellulosic plastics markets will be flat
or, at best, equal to the rate of growth of the economy in general.

Strategy

The Company’s objectives for Eastman Division are to improve gross margins,
accelerate revenues and earnings growth through exploiting growth opportunities
in its core businesses, and build capabilities for future growth. The key
elements of this strategy include:

•

Improve Gross Margins


Integrate Acquisitions

The Company has substantially completed the integration of a number of
acquisitions in its Eastman Division, which is expected to improve cost
structure and business focus. As part of its integration process, the
Company applied its historical expertise in manufacturing process
improvements and supply chain management to these businesses. In particular,
the Company has completed the deployment of its management teams among the
businesses it has acquired as part of the CASPI growth strategy, and
substantially completed the worldwide implementation of its enterprise
resource planning systems among these operations in July 2002.


Rationalization of Businesses and Products

The Company continues to evaluate its portfolio of products and businesses,
which has resulted in the exiting of certain products and businesses. The
Company expects further rationalization to occur, which could result in
additional product lines or businesses being removed from its portfolio to
improve overall profitability. In addition, the Company anticipates that it
will further consolidate manufacturing facilities, primarily in the CASPI
segment, to improve profitability.

The Company intends to continue to implement historically successful
initiatives to eliminate inefficiencies and unnecessary costs, as well as
improve manufacturing processes, all with the goal of improving the cost
structure of Eastman Division segments. For example, the Company intends to
improve gross margin by:

The economic downturn in 2002 reduced demand for Eastman Division’s
products, but the Company is well positioned to achieve benefits from
improved capacity utilization without the need for significant incremental
capital investment, particularly in oxo chemicals and coatings products.

* Six Sigma is a trademark of
Motorola, Inc.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

Exploit Growth Opportunities in Core Businesses


Develop New Specialty Products and Expand into New Markets

Eastman believes that it is a market leader based on sales in a number of
Eastman Division’s product lines, and is focused on growth through continued
innovation and displacement of competitive products with offerings that
provide greater functionality or better value. Recent examples of the
continued focus on the development of new and innovative products are
DuraStar™, Embrace™, and Provista™ in the SP segment. Recent examples of
efforts to enter new markets include the aggressive introduction by the
CASPI segment of coatings products using waterborne, powder and pigment
dispersion technologies to meet the growing requirement for environmentally
friendly products. In addition, growth opportunities will be driven by
optimization of Eastman Division’s product portfolio.


Leverage Opportunities Created by the Broad Product Line

Eastman Division is able to offer a broad array of complementary products
that customers would otherwise need to obtain from multiple manufacturers,
increasing cross-selling opportunities. In addition, the CASPI segment is
organized as an integrated platform that combines its leading products and
technologies in order to develop additional customer-specific applications.
This integrated platform should allow Eastman Division to further benefit
from advancements and developments with respect to one product line by
applying them to another product line; for instance, its ability to use
technology from the adhesives market in applications for the coatings and
inks market.

•

Build Capabilities for Future Growth


Develop Customer Service Oriented Initiatives to Leverage Unique Capabilities

The Company is expanding beyond the core business of chemicals and plastics
manufacturing to develop less capital-intensive service businesses that
allow it to take advantage of its long-term customer relationships,
operational skills and technological capabilities.


Cendian Corporation

Launched by the Company in 2000, Cendian
Corporation (“Cendian”) is an Eastman subsidiary that
offers logistics services for small to mid-sized chemicals
manufacturers. Cendian combines the Company’s long-standing distribution
and logistics capabilities and its strong reputation and brand in the
chemicals industry with recent information technologies to create a
full-scale outsourcing logistics provider for chemicals industry
participants. Cendian supports substantially all of the Company’s
worldwide logistics requirements, as well as provides logistics
outsourcing services to other chemicals manufacturers globally.


Ariel Research Corporation

In January 2002, Eastman acquired Ariel Research Corporation (“Ariel”).
Ariel, headquartered in Bethesda, Maryland, is a leading provider of
worldwide regulatory information and software products that enable
corporations to manage product safety and stewardship functions,
including requirements for workplace, environmental, and dangerous goods
compliance. Ariel’s comprehensive product offerings arise from
its over 14 year history of delivery of improvement protocols for
environmental, health and safety operations. Its customers include
major global corporations in the
chemical, pharmaceutical, consumer products, aerospace, electronics
and telecommunications markets.
The addition of Ariel’s capabilities should result in better
product stewardship information solutions for the Company’s customers.


Coal Gasification Services

The Company is developing a service business model for coal gasification
operations as an alternative clean technology for producing electric
power. Recognized as an industry leader in reliability and efficiency of
gasification operations, Eastman has operated a coal gasification plant
in Kingsport, Tennessee for approximately 20 years. Eastman Division
plans to leverage its expertise in gasification by offering operations
and maintenance services to third party gasification facilities. In the
fourth quarter of 2002, the Company entered into a cooperative agreement with Texaco
Development Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ChevronTexaco Corporation, that will enable Eastman to provide operation, maintenance,
management and technical services, as well as parts fabrication and
sales, for gasification plants of Texaco Development licensees.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES


Pursue Opportunities for Business Development and Diversification

The Company currently has in place and continues to pursue opportunities for
joint ventures, equity investments and other alliances. These strategic
initiatives are expected to diversify and strengthen businesses by providing
access to new markets and high-growth areas as well as providing an efficient
means of ensuring that Eastman is involved in and supportive of technological
innovation in or related to the chemicals industry. The Company is committed to
pursuing these initiatives in order to capitalize on new business concepts that
differentiate it from other chemical manufacturers and that will provide
incremental growth beyond that which is inherent in the chemicals industry and
at lesser capital investment requirements.

The Company’s current
initiatives include its approximate 42% equity interest in Genencor International, Inc.
(“Genencor”), a publicly traded biotechnology company engaged in the discovery,
development, manufacture, and marketing of biotechnology products for the
industrial chemicals, agricultural, and health care markets, and a developer of
integrated genomics technology. The Company, which was an early stage investor
and held a 50% interest prior to Genencor’s initial public offering in 2000,
believes this investment provides the opportunity for a financial return as
well as access to complementary technologies that may result in expanded
product offerings and additional market penetration. Genencor is accounted for
by the equity method of accounting for investments in common stock. Genencor’s
common stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is
listed on the NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol GCOR. See the
“Investments” section of Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements for a discussion of the equity method of accounting for the
investment in Genencor.

CASPI SEGMENT

•

Overview

Through the CASPI segment, Eastman Division manufactures binders, liquid
vehicles, pigment concentrates and additives, unsaturated polyester resins
and polyester and acrylic emulsions, which are integral to the production of
paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts, adhesives, textile sizes and
other formulated products. The CASPI segment focuses on raw materials rather
than finished products in order to develop long-term, strategic
relationships and achieve preferred supplier status with its customers. In
2002, the CASPI segment had sales revenue of approximately $1.6 billion, which
represented 29% of Eastman’s total sales and 43% of Eastman Division’s total
sales.

Success in the CASPI segment is dependent upon Eastman Division’s ability to
realize value from the optimization of returns from recently-acquired
businesses and assets and to capitalize on organic growth opportunities by
offering existing products and technologies to new markets and new products
and technologies to customers in multiple markets. For these reasons,
activities within the CASPI segment are focused on capitalizing on the
higher growth rates in environmentally friendly products such as waterborne,
powder and pigment dispersion technologies and on higher growth geographical
markets, such as the Asia Pacific region. The CASPI segment has strong
technology capabilities and an international presence that position it to
take advantage of new product growth and international opportunities.
Continued optimization will result in further operational efficiencies in
areas such as manufacturing, supply chain and cost management. This
optimization, coupled with further rationalization of businesses and
products, is expected to improve overall gross margins.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

Products

The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty
polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts,
adhesives and other markets. The CASPI segment’s products consist of
binders and resins, liquid vehicles, pigment concentrates and additives,
unsaturated polyester resins and polyester and acrylic emulsions. Binders
and resins, such as alkyd and polyester resins, hydrocarbon resins and
rosins and rosin esters, are used in adhesives as key components in paints
and inks to form a protective coating or film, and bind color to the
substrate. Liquid vehicles, such as ester, ketone and alcohol solvents,
maintain the binders in liquid form for ease of application. Pigment
concentrates and additives, such as cellulosic polymers, Texanol™ coalescing
aid and chlorinated polyolefins, provide different properties or performance
enhancements to the end product. Unsaturated polyester resins are used
primarily in gel coats and fiberglass reinforced plastics. Polyester and
acrylic emulsions are traditionally used as textile sizes to protect fibers
during processing in textile manufacturing, and the technology is also used
in water-based paints, coatings and inks. Additional products are developed
in response to, or in anticipation of, new applications where the Company
believes significant value can be achieved.

The CASPI segment’s
annual sales revenue is approximately 50% to paint and coatings
markets, approximately 25% to adhesives markets, and approximately 25% to
inks and graphic arts and other markets. The following table describes the
CASPI segment’s major product groups and the primary (P) and secondary (S)
markets into which those products are sold:

Markets

Paints

Inks and

and coatings

graphic arts

Adhesives

Other

Product Groups

Binders and resins

P

P

P

S

Liquid vehicles (solvents)

P

P

S

S

Pigment concentrates and
additives

P

P

—

S

Unsaturated polyester resins

—

—

—

P

Polyester and acrylic emulsions

P

S

S

P

•

Growth Strategy



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

In the future, the Company intends to continue to leverage its resources by
sharing best practices, both internal and those acquired, across the CASPI
segment and throughout the entire company. Although sales and application
development is often specialized by end-use market, developments in
technology may be successfully shared across all end uses. In addition, new
product offerings and manufacturing assets are shared across multiple end
uses.

•

Customers and Markets

As a result of the variety of end uses for its products, the customer base
in the CASPI segment is broad and diverse. This segment has more than 3,000
customers around the world and 80% of its sales revenue in 2002 was attributable to
approximately 250 customers. Eastman Division focuses on establishing
long-term, customer service oriented relationships with its strategic
customers in order to become their preferred supplier. Eastman Division sees
significant growth potential in its ability to leverage these relationships
to provide sales opportunities in previously underserved markets, as well as
expand the scope of its value-added services. However, from time to time,
customers decide to vertically integrate their own processes and internally
develop products or diversify their sources of supply that had been provided
by Eastman. Growth in these markets in North America and Europe typically
coincide with economic growth in general, due to the wide variety of end
uses for these applications and particular dependence on the economic
conditions of the market for durable goods.

•

Competition

Competition within the CASPI segment markets varies widely depending on the
specific product or product group. Because of the depth and breadth of its
product offerings, Eastman does not believe that any one of its competitors
presently offers all of the products that it manufactures within the CASPI
segment. Additionally, Eastman believes that, based on estimated sales
revenue, it is the largest producer of raw materials for the inks and
graphic arts market that it serves and the second largest producer of resins
for adhesives. However, many of the Company’s competitors within portions of
its CASPI segment are substantially larger companies, such as The Dow
Chemical Company(“Dow”), BASF Corporation, and Exxon Mobil Corporation, which may
have greater financial and other resources than those of Eastman.
Additionally, within each market in this segment, the Company competes with
other smaller, regionally focused companies that may have advantages based
on location, local market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific
product, or other factors. At any time, any one or more of these competitors
could develop additional products that compete with, or that may make
obsolete, some of Eastman’s current product offerings.

Eastman does not believe that any of its competitors is dominant within the
CASPI segment’s markets. Further, the Company attempts to maintain
competitive advantages through its level of vertical integration, breadth of
product and technology offerings, low-cost position, consistent product
quality and process and market knowledge. In addition, Eastman attempts to
leverage its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships
to promote substantial recurring business, further strengthening its
competitive position.

PCI SEGMENT

•

Overview

The Company’s PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in
a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including
chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage
ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer
compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates. The PCI segment also
offers custom manufacturing services through its custom synthesis business. The Company believes it has one of the industry’s broadest product
offerings, ranging from custom manufacturing to high volume manufacturing of
complex organic molecules for customers. In 2002, the PCI segment had
sales revenue of $1.5 billion, which represented 21% of Eastman’s total sales and 41% of
Eastman Division’s total sales.

Because a portion of the PCI segment’s sales are derived from higher margin,
highly specialized products with niche applications, success in the PCI
segment will require the Company to continue to innovate and develop new
products and find new applications for its existing products. Eastman
Division intends to invest in high–growth specialty products, such as
additives for food, personal care and pharmaceuticals, where it believes
the highest returns can be generated. Eastman Division is also concentrating
its efforts on new uses for existing products, such as optical brighteners and specialty anhydrides. Some of
Eastman Division’s other products in this segment are more substitutable and
price sensitive in nature, requiring the Company to operate on a lower cost
basis while maintaining high quality products and customer service.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

Products

The PCI segment offers over 150 products to customers, many of whom are
major producers in a broad range of markets. The following is a summary of
key products:


Specialty Organic Chemicals

Eastman manufactures complex organic molecules such as diketene derivatives,
specialty ketones, specialty anhydrides, optical brighteners and color
developers for fiber, food and beverage ingredients and photographic
chemicals, which are typically used in market niche applications. The
Company also engages in custom manufacturing of complex organic chemicals
where business is developed on a customer-by-customer basis after
significant consultation and analysis. These niche and custom manufacturing
products are typically priced based on the amount of value added rather than
supply and demand factors, and are often characterized by higher margins and
steady growth rates.


Other Chemicals Primarily for Chemical Manufacturing, Polymer
Compounding and Pharmaceutical Applications

Eastman manufactures a variety of intermediate chemicals based on oxo and
acetyl chemistries. The Company is the largest marketer of acetic anhydride
in the United States, a critical component of analgesics and other
pharmaceutical and agricultural products, and is the only U.S. producer of
acetaldehyde, a key intermediate in the production of vitamins and other
specialty products. Eastman manufactures the broadest range of oxo aldehyde
derivatives products in the world and owns proprietary technology for the
production of epoxybutene (“EpB™”) oxirane, an intermediate with growing use
in pharmaceuticals and other small volume, high–value specialty products.
The Company’s other products include plasticizers, glycols and polymer
intermediates. Many of the products in this portion of the PCI segment are
priced based on supply and demand of substitute and competing products. In
order to maintain a competitive position, the Company strives to operate
with a low–cost manufacturing base.

•

Growth Strategy

A two-pronged strategy for success in the PCI segment focuses on continuing
to develop and access markets with high growth potential for the Company’s
specialty organic chemicals, while maintaining its competitive advantage as
a low-cost, high quality and customer service oriented supplier of products
to other chemicals customers. The Company engages in customer focused
research and development initiatives in order to develop new products and
find additional applications for existing products, both in response to, and
in anticipation of, customer needs. The Company believes that this strategy
will enable it to remain a leader in application-specific, higher margin PCI
products. For example, Eastman has leveraged its expertise in chemicals
manufacturing to jointly develop with Genencor a process for making ascorbic
acid, or vitamin C, which provides significantly lower manufacturing costs
over current processes. Additionally, Eastman has been successful in
developing new applications for some of its existing PCI products. For
instance, Sustane ™ SAIB, which has long been used as a coatings additive
and for inks end uses, has new applications in the U.S. as a stabilizer in
citrus flavored drinks. Food and Drug Administration regulations now allow
the use of SAIB for this application. In the future, the Company expects to
continue to capitalize on applications such as these in biotechnology and in
other industries, and intends to seek to create additional opportunities to
apply its products in new and innovative ways.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

In order to build on and maintain its status as a low–cost producer, Eastman
continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency and capacity
utilization in order to maximize earnings. The Company’s highly integrated
and world-scale manufacturing facilities position it to achieve its
strategic goals. For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing
facilities allow the PCI segment to produce acetic anhydride and other
acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum
feedstocks. Similarly, at the Longview, Texas facility, the PCI segment
utilizes local ethane and propane supplies along with Eastman’s proprietary
oxo-technology in the world’s largest single-site oxo-aldehyde manufacturing
facility to produce a wide range of alcohols, esters and other derivatives
products. These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production
processes and continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the
Company to remain cost competitive with, and for many products
cost-advantaged over, its competitors.

•

Customers and Markets

Because of the niche applications of the PCI segment’s specialty organic
chemical products, each individual product offering is tailored to specific
end uses. Other performance chemicals and intermediates are more readily
substitutable, and have a more identifiable potential customer base. In
order to obtain a better understanding of its customers’ requirements, which
in turn allows it to focus on developing application-specific products, the
Company focuses on establishing long-term, partnership-oriented
relationships with its customers. From time to time, customers decide to
vertically integrate their own processes and internally develop products or
diversify their sources of supply that had been provided by Eastman.
Approximately 80% of the PCI segment’s sales revenue in 2002 was to 100 customers
out of approximately 1,450 customers worldwide.

During 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment
did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond
June 30, 2002. As a consequence, the related assets were impaired as
expected cash flows over the remaining term of the contract were not
sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets. Nonrecurring
charges related to the impacted assets were recorded during the second and
third quarters 2001 as part of the $69 million in charges taken for
restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines, as described in Note 15 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements. Subsequently, the customer initiated
discussions with the Company, which resulted in an agreement being reached in
June 2002, to extend the custom synthesis product contract one year based on
renegotiated terms. Sales revenue related to the contract extension was
approximately 3% of the PCI segment’s sales in 2002.

The PCI segment’s products are used in a variety of markets and end uses,
including agrochemical, automotive, beverages, catalysts, nutrition,
pharmaceuticals, coatings, flooring, medical devices, toys, photographic and
imaging, household products, polymers, textiles and consumer and
industrials. The markets for products with market-based pricing in the PCI
segment are cyclical. This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and
demand imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset
by corresponding increases in demand, or when demand exceeds existing
supply. Demand, in turn, is based on general economic conditions, energy
prices, consumer demand and other factors beyond the Company’s control.
Eastman may be unable to increase or maintain its level of sales in periods
of economic stagnation or downturn, and its future results of operations
and financial condition may experience fluctuations from period to period
due to these economic conditions. The Company believes many of these markets
to be in the “trough” of the cycle. Cyclicality is expected to remain a
significant factor in the PCI segment, particularly in the near term, as
existing capacity becomes absorbed and utilization rates increase from
current levels. The Company believes that, as excess capacity disappears,
market conditions will improve.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

Competition

For specialty organic chemicals and other niche applications, there are
typically few equivalent products, as the products and their applications
are very specialized. For this reason, producers compete with others only to
the extent they attempt to manufacture similar or enhanced products that
share performance characteristics. Barriers to entry in this market have
typically been cost, either due to raw material, integration, size or
capacity issues, technology and customer service. On a general level,
Eastman’s primary competitors for specialty organic chemicals are
multinational specialty chemical manufacturers such as Ciba Specialty
Chemicals Holding Inc., Clariant International Ltd. and Lonza Group Ltd.
Recently, an increasing number of producers, primarily from China and India,
have been entering the market primarily on price, benefiting from low-cost
labor, less stringent environmental regulations and government support.
These producers may later focus on improving their product quality and
customer service. Although the entry of new competitors is impacting the
pricing of existing products, Eastman believes it currently maintains a
competitive advantage over these competitors due to the combination of its
successful research and development applications, its low-cost manufacturing
base due to vertical integration, its long-term customer relations and
related customer service focus, as well as the fact that these suppliers are
frequently unable to produce products of consistently high quality.

For the majority of the PCI segment’s products with market-based pricing,
historically there have been significant barriers to entry, namely the fact
that the relevant technology has been held by a small number of companies.
As this technology has become more readily available, competition from
multinational chemicals manufacturers has intensified. Eastman competes with
these and other producers primarily based on price, as products are
interchangeable, and, to a lesser extent, based on technology, marketing and
other resources. While some of the Company’s competitors within the PCI
segment have greater financial resources than Eastman does, which may better
enable them to compete on price, the Company believes it maintains a strong
position due to a combination of its scale of operations, breadth of product
line, level of integration and technology leadership. For manufacturers of
products with market-based pricing, there continues to be increasing
consolidation, as evidenced by the combination of Dow and Union
Carbide Corporation in 2001.

SP SEGMENT

•

Overview

The SP segment produces highly
specialized copolyesters, cellulosic
plastics and compounded polyethylene plastics that possess unique performance properties for value-added end uses
such as appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction,
electronics and electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and
cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, biodegradeables, cups and
lids, fiber and strapping, photographic and optical, graphic arts and
general packaging. In 2002, the SP segment had sales revenue of $595 million, which
represented approximately 10% of Eastman’s total sales and 16% of Eastman
Division’s total sales.

Specialty copolyester products within the SP segment, including modified
specialty copolyesters such as Eastar™ and Spectar™, have higher than
industry average growth rates. Eastman’s specialty copolyesters, which
generally are based on Eastman’s market leading supply of CHDM modified
polymers, typically fill a market position between polycarbonates and
acrylics. While polycarbonates traditionally have had some superior
performance characteristics, acrylics have been less expensive. Specialty
copolyesters combine superior performance with competitive pricing and are
taking market share from both polycarbonates and acrylics as their
performance characteristics continue to improve and their pricing remains
competitive.

The specialty copolyesters market also includes environmentally friendly
specialty copolyesters and plastic sheeting that allow for flexibility in
designing signs and displays. The SP segment includes cellulosic plastics,
which has historically been a steady business with strong operating margins
for the Company, and also includes what Eastman believes is a North American
market-leading position in cellulose esters for tape and film products and
cellulose plastics for molding applications.

Eastman has the ability within its SP segment to modify its polymers and
plastics to control and customize their final properties, creating numerous
opportunities for new application development, including the expertise to
develop new materials and new applications starting from the molecular level
in the research laboratory to the final designed application in the
customer’s plant. In addition, the SP segment has a long history of
manufacturing excellence with strong process improvement programs providing
continuing cost reduction.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Manufacturing process models and information technology systems support
global manufacturing sites and provide monitoring and information transfer
capability that speed up the innovation process.

•

Products

The SP segment’s key products
are:


Engineering and Specialty Polymers

Engineering and specialty polymers accounted for approximately 50% of
the SP segment’s 2002 sales revenue. Engineering and specialty polymers include a broad
line of polyesters, filled polyesters, copolyesters, alloys, and
cellulosic plastics that are sold to a diverse and highly fragmented
customer base in numerous market segments on a global basis.
Approximately 50% of the revenues from engineering and specialty polymers
are generated in North America. Sales in all regions are generated
through a mix of the Company’s direct sales force and a network of
distributors. Engineering and specialty polymers products are sold into
three sectors: durable goods (e.g., components used in appliances,
electronic products and to a lesser degree, automobiles); medical goods
(e.g., disposable medical devices, healthcare equipment and instruments,
and pharmaceutical packaging); and personal care and consumer goods
(e.g., housewares, cosmetics, tools, toys and a variety of other uses).
Engineering and specialty polymers sales revenue is approximately 30% to durable
goods, approximately 20% to medical goods, and approximately 50% to
personal care and consumer goods.

The products for engineering and specialty polymers are heavily
specification-driven. The Company works with original equipment
manufacturing companies to enable product designers to design polymers
for a specified use in a specified product. Although the average life
cycle of many of these products is shrinking over time, the Company works
to identify uses for the polymers in products that will have multi-year
lives. In working with original equipment manufacturing companies on
new consumer product designs, new polymer products are often developed
for use in a particular type of end-use product. There are numerous
variations of polymer products sold under ten different trade names.

The Company competes in market niches requiring polymers with
combinations of clarity, toughness and chemical resistance.


Specialty Film and Sheet



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

The building and construction market is a new focus for specialty film
and sheet beginning with Kelvx™ resin for the sign market. The Company
plans to seek a number of new opportunities within this market. The use
of copolyester in these markets is expected to grow significantly above
market rates. Competitive materials in these markets are typically PMMA
and PC.


Packaging, Film and Fiber

Packaging, film and fiber products, which represented approximately 25%
of the SP segment’s 2002 revenue, include a range of specialty polymer
products for markets such as photographic, optical film, biodegradable
food service packaging and industrial film, nonwovens and tapes/labels.
Customers are typically manufacturers of film and fiber products,
employing a range of processing technologies, including film and sheet
melt extrusion, thermoforming, solvent casting, fiber extrusion and
extrusion coating. These films and fibers products are further converted
to produce value-added products, such as photographic film, adhesive
tape, or nonwoven articles, which are sold as branded items. Products
include cellulose esters, copolyesters, specialty polyesters and
concentrates/additives. Packaging, film and fiber sales consist of 75%
photographic and optical film, 15% tapes and labels, 10% biodegradable,
packaging, industrial film and nonwovens. Currently, North America
comprises 85% of sales revenue for packaging, film and fiber.
Competition is primarily from other producers of copolyesters.

The Company expects to expand the current customer base for packaging,
film and fiber products to penetrate other regions with existing products
and to develop new products targeted at the optical films and
biodegradable packaging and film markets.

•

Growth Strategy

The SP segment is focused on innovation and marketing and, within the past
three years, has commercialized over 15 new products. Eastman Division
believes that the continued differentiation of its current offerings and
introduction of new products will provide access to previously underserved
markets, such as its introduction of polymers with higher heat resistance
and products designed to be environmentally friendly. Additionally, the SP
segment develops product enhancements in order to respond to specific market
needs, and expects this to result in increased market penetration for
existing products. The SP model of innovation leverages a unique and
growing portfolio of cellulosics and specialty copolyesters, such as
Embrace™ for shrink film, Provista™ for retail displays, Durastar™ for
cosmetic and household applications, and Kelvx™ resin for higher temperature
sheet applications. This product portfolio is focused on substitution for
other materials, such as PC, acrylic, or PVC, in applications that require
clarity, toughness and chemical resistance.

The Company expects to continue to pursue profitable alliances with
strategic customers to engage in branding in order to increase name
recognition, to offer one of the industry’s widest varieties of products and
to maintain its focus on high-growth markets, all with the intent of
maximizing the return from its recognized brand position in its SP products.

•

Customers and Markets

The SP segment produces highly-specialized copolyesters, cellulosic
plastics and compounded polyethylene plastics that possess performance
properties for value-added end uses such as appliances, in-store fixtures
and displays, building and construction, electronics and electronic
packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance
films, tapes and labels, biodegradeables, cups and lids, fiber and
strapping, photographic and optical, graphic arts and general packaging.
The customer base in the SP segment is broad and diverse, consisting of over
900 companies worldwide in a variety of industries. Approximately 80%
of the SP
segment’s 2002 revenue was attributable to approximately 75 customers. Particularly
in the SP segment, Eastman Division seeks to develop mutually beneficial
relationships with its customers throughout various stages of product life
cycles. By doing so, Eastman Division is better able to understand its
customers’ needs as those customers develop new products, and more
effectively bring new solutions to market. Additionally, Eastman Division
builds additional brand loyalty, lengthening the time before its products
compete based entirely on price.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

Competition



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EASTMAN DIVISION GENERAL INFORMATION

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

The Company markets Eastman Division products primarily through a global sales
organization, which has a presence in the United States as well as in over 35
other countries around the world. Eastman Division has a number of broad
product lines which require a sales and marketing strategy that is tailored to
specific customers in order to deliver high quality products and high levels of
service to all of its customers worldwide. Judgment and process knowledge are
critical in determining the application of Eastman Division’s products for a
particular customer. Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that
is capable of providing customized business solutions for each of its three
operating segments, Eastman Division is able to establish long-term customer
relationships and strives to become the preferred supplier of specialty
chemicals and plastics.

Eastman Division’s products are marketed through a variety of selling channels,
with the majority of sales being direct and the balance sold primarily through
indirect channels such as distributors. International sales tend to be made
more frequently through distributors than domestic sales. Eastman Division’s
customers throughout the world have the choice of obtaining products and
services through Eastman’s website, www.eastman.com, through any of the global
customer service centers, or through any of Eastman’s direct sales force or
independent distributors. Customers who choose to use the Company’s website can
conduct a wide range of business transactions such as ordering online,
accessing account and order status and obtaining product and technical data.

Eastman is an industry leader in the implementation and utilization of
e-business technology for marketing products to customers and was one of the
first chemical companies to offer this capability. Eastman views this as an
opportunity to increase supply chain efficiency by having an enterprise
resource-planning platform with connectivity to customers. These sales and
marketing capabilities combine to reduce costs and provide a platform for
growth opportunities for the Company by providing potential customers new
methods to access Eastman’s products.

Eastman Division’s products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman’s
manufacturing plants as well as from distribution centers worldwide, with the
method of shipment generally determined by the customer. In order to further
capitalize on its expertise and minimize its costs, the Company completed the
outsourcing of all of its North American logistics needs to Cendian in 2001 and
substantially all of its international logistics requirements in 2002. Cendian
also provides logistics outsourcing services to other chemicals manufacturers
and companies.

Intellectual Property and Trademarks

The Company considers its Eastman Division-related intellectual property
portfolio to be a valuable corporate asset which it expands and vigorously
protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various
times, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. The Company’s primary strategy
regarding its Eastman Division-related intellectual property portfolio is to
protect all innovations that provide its segments with a significant
competitive advantage. The Company also derives significant value from its
intellectual property by actively licensing and selling patents and expertise
worldwide. In addition, when appropriate, the Company licenses technology from
third parties that complement Eastman Division’s strategic business objectives.
Neither Eastman Division’s business as a whole nor any particular segment is
materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or
trade secret. As a producer of a broad and diverse portfolio of chemicals and
plastics, Eastman Division’s intellectual property and trademarks relate to a
wide variety of products and processes. As the laws of many foreign countries
do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the
United States, Eastman Division cannot assure that it will be able to
adequately protect all of its intellectual property assets.

Research and Development

Eastman Division devotes significant resources to its research and development
programs, which are primarily targeted towards three objectives:

•

improving existing products and processes to lower costs, improving product quality and reducing environmental impact;

•

developing new products and processes; and



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

•

developing new product lines and markets through applications research.

In the last several years, research and development has developed a number of
new copolyesters for specific market applications and has improved the
Company’s specialty polyester manufacturing expertise. There has been a
significant expansion in coatings and adhesives technologies, resulting in a
number of new products in the waterborne and emulsion resins area. In addition,
a new cellulose based water dispersible additive that has been commercialized
provides the opportunity for more environmentally friendly automotive coatings
while maintaining a smooth finish. Recently, Eastman Division has discovered
and is developing Bophoz ™, a catalyst that has the potential to provide intermediates for
medicinal drugs. This is a recent innovation for Eastman Division, and the
Company believes it has large market potential in the pharmaceutical and other
industries.

VORIDIAN DIVISION

Business and Industry Overview

The Voridian Division consists of the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment.
The Polymers segment is the largest producer of PET polymers for packaging
based on capacity share and the Fibers segment is one of the two largest producers of acetate tow
worldwide. With eight manufacturing plants in six countries and two
contract-manufacturing arrangements in Asia, Voridian is globally positioned to
serve its growing markets.

PET polymers are clear, lightweight plastics used principally in packaging
applications such as containers for beverages, edible oils and other foods. To
a lesser extent, they are also used in films and sheet for packaging and
consumer and industrial applications. Defining characteristics include high
strength, light weight, durability, clarity, versatility, low cost, safety and
recyclability.

In 2002, the worldwide market for PET polymers, including containers, film and
sheet was over 8.9 million metric tons. Demand for PET polymers has grown
briskly over the past several years, driven by its popularity as a substitute
for glass in packaging and consumer applications. PET polymers have already
made significant inroads in soft drink and water bottles, and producers are
currently targeting markets such as hot-fill and barrier containers for beer,
soups and sauces. Industry analysts report that PET polymers consumption grew
worldwide from 1.0 million metric tons in 1989 to approximately 8 million in
2001, a compound annual growth rate of 17.3%. Global demand for PET polymers is
expected to grow approximately 10% annually over the next several years. The
strong growth in demand, coupled with ease of access to manufacturing
technology, has resulted in the presence of approximately seventy suppliers in
this market, up from fewer than twenty in 1995. Capacity utilization rates in
Western Europe and the Americas could decline slightly in 2003 if expected
additions to capacity materialize.

The Polymers segment’s polyethylene products consist of both low-density
polyethylene, or LDPE, and linear low-density polyethylene, or LLDPE.
According to industry analysts, demand growth in the combined LDPE and LLDPE markets
in North America is expected to be 2% to 3% through 2005. Competitive
advantages in this market are achieved through increased operating efficiencies
and new product offerings.

The industries utilizing PET polymers and polyethylene products compete to a
large extent on price and can be characterized as capital intensive. Success in
these industries depends largely on attaining scale-related benefits by keeping
manufacturing costs at a minimum through the use of efficient processes at high
levels of capacity utilization and obtaining access to low-cost utilities,
energy and raw materials.

The acetate tow market, which Voridian believes is approximately a $2 billion
market annually, grew at a rate of 2.5% annually from 1998 to 2001. Voridian
estimates that, for 2002, the acetate tow market grew by 1% to 2% as compared to
2001. Three trends are contributing to the current increase in demand and are
expected to do so in future years:

•

a decline in the use of polypropylene tow in China and its replacement by acetate tow;

•

requirements in the European Union, Brazil and China to reduce tar deliveries in cigarettes, resulting in cigarette filter
manufacturers producing longer cigarette filters; and

•

increase in production of filtered cigarettes worldwide.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

If polypropylene tow usage in China was totally replaced by acetate tow over
the next five years, the world market for acetate tow could grow at a rate of
approximately 2% per year. Increased filter lengths due to legislated lower tar
deliveries in the European Union, Brazil and China could increase the expected
growth rate to 2% to 3% per year for the next few years. After polypropylene tow is
replaced in China, the expected growth rate for worldwide demand is
approximately 0.5% to 1.0% per year. Included within these estimates are
adjustments for the expected decrease in cigarette consumption in the United
States, which is expected to be more than offset by a corresponding increase in
consumption overseas.

Voridian estimates that the market for acetate yarn was approximately $300
million in 2002. The demand for acetate yarn has declined 50% since the
mid-1990’s due to the impact of business casual fashions and the substitution
of polyester yarn. This decrease in demand has led to associated decreases in
price and profitability throughout the market. The market demand is expected
to stabilize at these levels for the next 2 to 3 years.

Strategy

Voridian focuses on strategic goals that are appropriate for a company
operating in a price-sensitive industry. Voridian will continue to take
advantage of its global position as one of the most efficient producers of PET
polymers and acetate tow, while maintaining its reputation for market-leading
quality products at competitive prices. To achieve these objectives, Voridian
employs operational strategies on both a division-wide and segment-by-segment
basis. The key elements of the division-wide strategy include:

•

Continue to Focus on Operational Efficiency

Voridian is a global leader in market share in two of its major product
markets and expects to leverage its product knowledge, experience and scale
to further reduce production costs and increase output. As a highly
integrated major PET polymers producer and one of only a few integrated
acetate fiber producers, Voridian intends to develop further efficiencies to
enhance its cost position.

•

Maintain Superior Process Technologies

Voridian is a leader in developing and implementing improved process
technologies through efficient use of research and development. Voridian
intends to develop increasingly efficient technologies to improve its cost
position with the goal of improving operating margins.

•

Leverage Reputation for Quality and Innovation

Voridian’s product quality and innovation make it a recognized industry
leader in the manufacture of PET polymers and acetate fibers products.
Voridian will continue to commercialize new PET polymers products driven by
customer needs and consumer preference.

•

Expand Intelligently in Response to Expected Growth in the PET Polymers
Market

Voridian intends to expand its production capabilities in a
capital-efficient manner. Voridian intends to focus on utilizing excess
capacity at existing manufacturing sites, adding capacity by reducing
bottlenecks in its current production lines to increase productivity and
participating in strategic manufacturing alliances.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

POLYMERS SEGMENT

•

Overview

The Polymers segment offers the world’s largest, most global and vertically
integrated PET polymers product line with a broad formula capability.
Voridian is the largest producer of PET polymers for beverage bottles and
sheet for thermoforming. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging
for a wide variety of products including carbonated soft drinks, water,
beer, personal care items and food containers that are suitable for both
conventional and microwave oven use. Voridian has PET polymers manufacturing
sites strategically positioned around the world, and competes primarily in
North America, Latin America and Europe. Voridian manufactures polymers at
facilities in Argentina, Mexico, Spain, the Netherlands and England, as
well as the United States. In addition, Voridian has contract manufacturing
arrangements in Asia. In 2002, the Polymers segment had revenues of $1.6
billion, which represented 28% of the Company’s total sales and 69% of
Voridian’s total sales.

The Polymers segment also offers a polyethylene product line including
low-density polyethylene and linear low-density polyethylene, which is
manufactured using the Company’s proprietary technology. Polyethylene
products are used primarily for packaging and film applications and in
extrusion-coated containers such as milk and juice cartons.

The Polymers segment’s product line benefits from a global asset base, which
Voridian intends to grow in a capital efficient manner including through the
elimination of production bottlenecks and the use of business models such as
contract manufacturing.

•

Products

The Polymers segment’s products are integral to a broad range of end
markets, which provides Voridian a number of growth opportunities. The
Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers and both low-density
and linear low-density polyethylene.


PET Polymers

Voridian’s broad PET polymers product line accounted for approximately 80%
of the Polymers segment’s sales revenue in 2002. PET polymers are used in beverage and
food packaging and other applications such as custom-care and cosmetics
packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and
industrial. Voridian’s polymers offer fast and easy processing, superb
clarity, excellent colorability and color consistency, durability and
strength, impact and chemical resistance and high heat stability.


Low-Density and Linear Low-Density Polyethylene

Voridian is a market-leading supplier of low-density polyethylene for
extrusion coatings in North America and is a manufacturer of linear
low-density polyethylene through utilization of Voridian’s proprietary
Energx™ technology for gas-phase polyethylene production. The low-density
and linear low-density polyethylene product lines accounted for
approximately 20% of the Polymers segment’s sales revenue in 2002.

•

Growth Strategy


Increase Capacity to Meet Market Demand in a Capital Efficient Manner

Voridian intends to capitalize on PET polymers industry growth with timely
and efficient capacity additions resulting from debottlenecking production
processes, asset expansions, contract-manufacturing arrangements, and
manufacturing alliances. For example in 2002, the Company entered into a
bi-lateral strategic purchasing agreement with Wellman that provides
an increase of Voridian’s PET polymers capacity of approximately 130 million
pounds on an annual basis with minimal additional capital investment.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES


Maintain Leadership in Innovation Through Research and Development

Voridian expects to continue to make efficient research and development
expenditures in the Polymers segment in order to provide customers with
incremental improvements in existing products and innovative new products.
For example, Voridian has introduced sixteen new products since the
beginning of 2000 including two Eastapak™ polymer formulas for the water
market, two Elegante™ polymer formulas for the personal care/cosmetics
market, AmberGuard™ polymer for the beer market, Heatwave™ polymer for
hot-fill beverage applications that require ultra-violet (UV) protection and
VersaTray™ polymer for food packaging and cooking, suitable for both
conventional and microwave oven use.


Maintain and Expand Technology Licensing

The Company believes that the licensing of certain of its Polymers
technologies, such as its purified terephthalic acid EPTA™ and Energx™
technologies, provides significant revenue opportunities and intends to seek
additional licensing opportunities.

•

Customers and Markets

The Polymers segment has a diverse customer base consisting of more than 150
companies worldwide. The largest 75 customers within the Polymers segment
accounted for 80% of the segment’s total sales revenue in 2002. These customers are
primarily PET polymer container suppliers whose business is in the large
volume beverage segments such as carbonated soft drinks, water and juice,
with strong participation in custom areas such as food, liquor, sport and
fruit beverages, health and beauty aids and household
products.

PET polymers supply has significantly exceeded demand since 1997 as a result
of excess capacity being introduced into the market. While the demand for
PET polymers has steadily increased since then, some excess capacity still
remains. As a result of this imbalance, the Polymers segment may continue to
be unable to maintain sales volume at desired price levels.

•

Competition

Within the PET resin industry, competition varies by region. There are a
substantial number of regional competitors worldwide, with no PET polymers
competitors having any dominant role or any significant competitive
advantage over Voridian. These competitors, such as KoSa, M&G and Wellman do not have Voridian’s level of integration or
global operations. Competition is primarily on the basis of price, as well
as product performance and quality, service and reliability. Industry
pricing, in turn, is strongly affected by industry capacity utilization and
raw material costs. For this reason, the Company believes that the
combination of its size and scale of operations enables Voridian to
be a low-cost PET polymers producer, providing a significant advantage.

In the marketing of PET resin, the Company believes it maintains a distinct
competitive advantage due to its breadth of product line and formula
capability. Voridian is considered to be a technology leader in PET polymers
and strives to remain at the forefront of new product development.

Voridian is a niche polyethylene producer due to its size and ability to
target specific markets. In the low-density polyethylene product line,
Voridian is a significant producer of materials used in extrusion coatings
applications and is one of only two North American producers of acrylate
copolymers. In the linear low-density polyethylene market, Voridian employs
its proprietary Energx™ technology, which offers ease of processability, to
compete in higher strength film markets. Some polyethylene producers are
substantially larger than Voridian, and have greater market presence and
resources devoted to polyethylene than Voridian. This may allow them, or
other competitors, to price competing products at lower levels, or devote
substantial resources to product development, that Voridian is unable or
unwilling to match, which may substantially impair Voridian’s polyethylene
revenues.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

FIBERS SEGMENT

•

Overview

The Fibers segment manufactures Estron™ acetate tow and Estrobond™ triacetin
plasticizers, which are used primarily in cigarette filters; Estron™ and
Chromspun™ acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial
fabrics; and acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber
producers. Voridian is one of the world’s two largest suppliers
of acetate
tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow
since it began producing the product in the early 1950’s. Voridian is also
one of the three largest producers of acetate yarn worldwide. In 2002, the
Fibers segment had sales revenue of approximately $714 million, which represented
12% of the Company’s total sales and 31% of Voridian’s total sales.

Voridian’s long history and experience in the
fibers markets are reflected
in its operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its
customers’ processes. Voridian’s expertise in internal operating processes
allows it to achieve a consistently high level of product quality, a
differentiating factor in the industry. Further, Voridian’s fully integrated
facilities allow it to reduce its dependence on necessary petrochemicals
from third parties. Voridian management believes that all of these factors
combine to make it a leader in performance and cost position.

Voridian’s high-quality products, technical expertise and superior customer
service in the Fibers segment are its key competitive strengths. Voridian’s
industry knowledge and knowledge of its Fibers segment customers’ processes
allow it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing
efficiencies, promoting repeat sales and mutually beneficial, long-term
customer relationships. Voridian’s scale, strong customer base,
long-standing customer relationships and expert technical service contribute
to its market-leading position. Voridian’s goal is to build on these
strengths to improve its strategic position.

•

Products

Voridian’s main products in the Fibers segment are acetate tow, acetate yarn and acetate flake.


Acetate Tow

Voridian is one of the two largest producers of acetate tow worldwide.
Voridian manufactures acetate tow to customer specifications which are used
to produce various filtration patterns for cigarettes. In addition, Voridian
manufactures triacetin plasticizers for use by cigarette manufacturers as a
bonding agent in these filters.


Acetate Yarn

Voridian is one of the three largest producers of acetate yarn worldwide.
Voridian is a market leader offering over 300 types of acetate yarn.
Chromspun™ and Estron™ acetate yarns are used in apparel, home furnishings
and industrial applications. Voridian acetate yarn products have
characteristics that allow for highly efficient mill processability. From an
end user’s perspective, fabrics of Estron™ and Chromspun™ have a silky feel,
drape, breathability and comfort. Further, fabrics of Voridian acetate yarns
have good shrinkage-resistant and mildew-resistant characteristics.
Chromspun™ acetate yarn is available in more than 70 colors.


Acetate Flake and Acetyl Raw Materials

Voridian produces acetate flake as part of its highly integrated production
chain and sells flake to other acetate fiber producers. Acetyl raw materials
are acetylation-grade acetic acid and acetic anhydride for fiber production
purposes.

•

Growth Strategy

Voridian’s growth strategy in the Fibers segment is as follows:



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES


Position for Growth

In the Fibers segment, Voridian intends to focus competitively on high
quality products, excellent customer service and operational efficiencies to
take advantage of global market growth.


Continue to Capitalize on Operating Expertise

The Fibers segment emphasizes incremental product and process improvements
to continue to meet customers’ evolving needs and to maximize efficiencies
in the supply chain through collaborative planning. The Fibers segment
intends to further focus on refining its processes to lower manufacturing
costs and provide additional product quality and operations improvements.


Maintain Cost-Effective Operations

The Fibers segment expects to continue to operate in a cost effective
manner, capitalizing on its scale and vertical integration, and intends to
make further productivity and efficiency improvements through continued
investments in research and development. The Company plans to reinvest in
the Fibers business to continue to improve product performance and
productivity in order to generate consistently strong cash flows.

•

Customers and Markets

The customer base in the Fibers segment is relatively concentrated, consisting
of about 150 companies, primarily those involved in the production of
cigarettes and in the textiles industry. The largest 20 customers within the
Fibers segment, multinational as well as regional cigarette producers and
textile industry fabric manufacturers, accounted for greater than 80% of the
segment’s total sales revenue in 2002.

Voridian is well known for its expert technical service. Voridian periodically
reviews customers’ processes and provides process training to some of its
customers’ employees to assist them in the efficient use of Voridian’s
products. Voridian also engages in collaborative planning with its customers to
maximize supply chain management. These customer-focused efforts, combined with
Voridian’s long history and product quality reputation, have resulted in many
long-term customer relationships, a key competitive advantage.

•

Competition

Competition in the fibers industry is based primarily on product quality,
technical and customer service, reliability, long-term customer relationships
and price. To be successful, Voridian is required to minimize costs and
maximize production efficiency. Competitors in the fibers market include one
global supplier, Celanese AG, in both the acetate tow and yarn markets, and
several regional competitors in each market. The supply and demand balance at a
given time affects pricing in the market. Currently, the acetate yarn market has
an excess supply of products due to manufacturing capacity remaining high while
demand declined, resulting in lower prices. Voridian management believes it is
well positioned to respond to competitive price pressures due to its scale of
operations and level of integration.

In the acetate tow market, Celanese AG has capacity in China and is considering
additional capacity through joint ventures with the government-owned China
National Tobacco Corporation. Increased local production in China may diminish
Voridian’s access to this market.

Within the acetate yarn market, product quality, technical service and global
distribution are key competitive factors. Particularly with respect to textile
customers, a majority of the customer base and production capacity has moved to
regions where Voridian does not have manufacturing sites. This shift in the
worldwide customer base requires Voridian to capitalize upon its global product
distribution capability and product quality.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

VORIDIAN DIVISION GENERAL INFORMATION

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

Voridian primarily markets its products through direct sales channels; however,
it employs contract representatives and resellers where beneficial. As part of
its commitment to customer and technical service which leads to increased
repeat sales, Voridian periodically provides audits of customers’ processes, as
well as process training to some of its customers’ employees. Voridian is
committed to maintaining its high level of customer service by remaining
current with customer needs, market trends and performance requirements.

Through the use of e-business platforms that improve connectivity and reduce
costs, Voridian offers its customers an internet option, www.voridian.com, for
placing and tracking orders, generating reports and bidding at online auctions.
Voridian also provides integrated direct capabilities to customers, allowing
enhanced collaborative planning to improve supply chain efficiencies.

Intellectual Property and Trademarks

The Company believes that significant advantages can be obtained through the
continued focus on branding its products and, for this reason, protects its
Voridian Division-related intellectual property through a combination of
patents that expire at various times, trademarks and licenses. The Company
expects to expand its portfolio of technologies licensed to other companies in
the future. To date, the Company has selectively licensed a fairly extensive
portfolio of patented Voridian polyester, intermediates, and polyethylene
technologies. The Company has formed an alliance to license PTA technology,
trademarked EPTA, to SK, a PET and EPTA producer headquartered in
South Korea and to Lurgi Oel Gas Chemie, an EPC firm headquartered in Germany.
Energx™ polyethylene technology has been licensed to Hanwha Chemical,
headquartered in South Korea, and BP Amoco ("BP"), headquartered in the United
Kingdom. BP is also licensed to market and sub-license the technology to other
gas-phase LLDPE producers. Additionally, the Company has formed an alliance
with W.R. Grace/Davison Catalysts to further exploit Energx™ globally. Voridian
Division’s intellectual property portfolio is an important asset. However,
neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially
dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade
secret. As the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual
property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Voridian Division
cannot assure that it will be able to adequately protect all of its
intellectual property assets.

Research and Development

Voridian directs its research and development programs for the Polymers segment
toward five key objectives:

Voridian’s research and development efforts in the Polymers segment have
resulted in new products that have met with wide acceptance in the marketplace.
In the PET polymers business, Voridian has introduced sixteen new products
since the beginning of 2000 including two Eastapak Aqua™ polymer formulas for
the water market, two Elegante™ polymer formulas for the personal
care/cosmetics market, AmberGuard™ polymer for the beer market, Heatwave™
polymer for hot-fill beverage applications that require ultra-violet (UV)
protection, VersaTray™ polymer for food packaging and cooking, suitable for
both conventional and microwave oven use, and new enhanced reheat resins for
the European and Asian markets. In the polyethylene business, Voridian has
commercialized a group of new, higher-value polyethylene products with
increased tear strength and impact performance such as Mxsten™ and Voridian
Hifor™.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Research and development efforts for the Fibers segment are primarily focused
on incremental process and product improvements, as well as cost reduction,
with the goal of increasing sales and reducing costs. Achievements have
included fiber product advancements that allow improved processability on
customers’ equipment and improved packaging design.

EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy

Eastman purchases a substantial portion, approximately 70%, of its key raw
materials and energy through long-term contracts, generally of three to five
years initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party.
Most of those agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or
energy if its operations are reduced or idle. The cost of raw materials and
energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, although
derivative financial instruments, valued at quoted market prices, have been
utilized to mitigate the impact of short-term market price fluctuations. Key
raw materials and purchased energy include paraxylene, ethylene glycol, PTA,
propane and ethane, cellulose, methanol, coal, natural gas, electricity, and a
wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals. The Company has
multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality
management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships
with suppliers and on-going performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of
the supplier selection process. When appropriate, the Company purchases raw
materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost
improvements, and has developed contingency plans that would minimize the
impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.

While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur,
these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected
requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are subject to
unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, or due
to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in government
regulation, war or other outbreak of hostilities. Eastman’s operations or
products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. The
Company’s total cost of raw materials as a percent of total cost
of operations was approximately 50% in 2002.

Capital Expenditures

The completion of several significant capital investment projects in the late
1990’s and Eastman’s strategy of growth through strategic acquisitions resulted
in reduced capital expenditures in recent years. Capital expenditures were $427
million, $234 million and $226 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Capital expenditures for 2002 included $161 million related to the purchase of
certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease.

In 2003, Eastman expects that capital expenditures and other directed
investments for small acquisitions and other ventures will be no more than
depreciation and amortization. Efficiency of capital utilization is a key
element of the Company’s strategy to improve gross margins and, where
appropriate, alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing businesses,
and tolling arrangements are used to expand available capacity using less
capital.

Employees

Eastman employs approximately 15,700 men and women worldwide. Approximately 12%
of the total worldwide labor force is represented by unions, mostly outside the
United States.

Customers

Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any
one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company
until such business is replaced. The top 100 customers accounted for
approximately 55% of the Company’s 2002 sales revenue.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Intellectual Property and Trademarks

While the Company’s intellectual property portfolio is an important Company
asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination
of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade
secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is
materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or
trade secret. As a producer of a broad and diverse portfolio of both specialty
and commodity chemicals, plastics, and fibers, Eastman owns well over 1,000
active United States patents and more than 1,000 active foreign patents,
expiring at various times over several years, and also owns over 3,000 active
worldwide trademarks. The Company’s intellectual property relates to a wide
variety of products and processes. As the laws of many foreign countries do
not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United
States, Eastman cannot assure that it will be able to adequately protect all of
its intellectual property assets.

Research and Development

For 2002, 2001 and 2000, Eastman’s research and development expense totaled
$159 million, $160 million and $149 million, respectively. Research and
development expenses are expected to increase in 2003, driven by Voridian’s
efforts to develop operational efficiencies and as a result of the Company’s
increased technology efforts associated with new business initiatives.

Seasonality

The Company typically experiences a seasonal decline in earnings in the fourth
quarter. Demand in the CASPI segment is typically higher in the second and
third quarters due to increased use of coatings products in the building and
construction industries and weaker during the winter months and the holiday
season because of seasonal construction downturns. The Polymers segment
typically experiences stronger demand for PET polymers for beverage plastics
during the second quarter due to higher consumption of beverages, while demand
typically weakens during the third quarter. Seasonality in the SP segment is
associated with certain segments of the photographic and adhesive tape market,
coupled with the effect of a typical year-end inventory reduction by several
customers.

Environmental

Eastman is subject to laws, regulations and legal requirements relating to the
use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge,
disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous
substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business. These
health, safety and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company’s
planning for all existing and new products and processes. The Health, Safety,
and Environmental/Public Policy Committee of Eastman’s Board of Directors
reviews the Company’s policies and practices concerning health, safety and the
environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations,
and monitors related matters.

The Company’s policy is to operate its plants and facilities in a manner that
protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the
public. The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental
protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and
with the technology available. In some cases, applicable environmental
regulations such as those adopted under the U.S. Clean Air Act and Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies,
determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.

The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company
has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount
accrued reflects the Company’s assumptions about remedial requirements at the
contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with
regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party
sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible
parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based,
unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety,
environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requirements could
result in higher or lower costs.

Other matters pertaining to health, safety, and the environment are discussed
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and Note 11 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Backlog

On January 1, 2003, Eastman’s backlog of firm sales orders was approximately
$233 million compared with approximately $244 million at January 1, 2002. The
Company adjusts its inventory policy to control the backlog of products
depending on customers’ needs. In areas where the Company is the single source
of supply, or competitive forces or customers’ needs dictate, the Company may
carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.

Available Information

The Company makes available free of charge, through the “Investors – SEC
Filings” section of its Internet website
(

www.eastman.com

), its annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable
after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Once filed with the SEC, such documents may be read and/or copied at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549.
Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet
site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, including Eastman Chemical Company, that
electronically file with the SEC at

http://www.sec.gov

.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

For information about revenues and long-lived assets based on geographic areas,
see Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Certain information about the Company’s executive officers is provided below:

J. Brian Ferguson, age 48, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer. Mr. Ferguson joined the Company in 1977. He was named Vice President,
Industry and Federal Affairs in 1994, became Managing Director, Greater China
in 1997, was named President, Eastman Chemical Asia Pacific in 1998, became
President, Polymers Group in 1999, became President, Chemicals Group in 2001,
and was elected to his current position in January 2002.

Allan R. Rothwell, age 55, is Executive Vice President of the Company and
President of Voridian Division. Mr. Rothwell joined the Company in 1969, became
Vice President and General Manager, Container Plastics Business Organization in
1994, and was appointed Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy in
1997. He was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1998,
became President, Chemicals Group in 1999, became President, Polymers Group in
2001, and was appointed to his current position in January 2002.

James P. Rogers, age 51, joined Eastman in 1999 as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer and effective in January 2002, was also appointed Chief
Operations Officer of Eastman Division. Mr. Rogers served previously as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GAF Materials
Corporation. He also served as Executive Vice President, Finance, of
International Specialty Products, Inc., which was spun off from GAF in 1997.
During 2003, Mr. Rogers will become President of Eastman Division upon the
expected hiring by the Company of a new Chief Financial Officer.

Betty W. DeVinney, age 58, is Senior Vice President, Human Resources,
Organizational Effectiveness, and Communications and Public Affairs. Mrs.
DeVinney joined Eastman in 1973. She became Manager, Employment in 1991,
Manager, Community Relations in 1995, Manager, Corporate Relations in 1997,
Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs in 1998, and was appointed to
her current position in January 2002.

Theresa K. Lee, age 50, is Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary. Ms. Lee joined Eastman as a staff attorney in 1987, served as
Assistant General Counsel for the health, safety, and environmental legal staff
from 1993 to 1995, and served as Assistant General Counsel for the corporate
legal staff from 1995 until her appointment as Vice President, Associate
General Counsel and Secretary in 1997. She became Vice President, General
Counsel, and Secretary of Eastman in 2000 and was appointed to her current
position in January 2002.

Roger K. Mowen, Jr., age 57, is Senior Vice President,
Global Developing Businesses and Corporate Strategy. Mr. Mowen joined Eastman in 1971. He was
named Vice President and General Manager, Polymer Modifiers in 1991,
Superintendent of the Polymers Division in 1994, President, Carolina Operations
in 1996, Vice President, Customer Demand Chain in 1998, Vice President,
CustomerFirst and Chief Information Officer in 1999, Vice President, Global
Customer Services Group and Chief Information Officer in 2000, and appointed
Senior Vice President, Global Customer Services Group and Chief Information
Officer in 2001. He was appointed to his current position in March
2003.

Gregory O. Nelson, age 51, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology
Officer. Dr. Nelson joined Eastman in 1982 as a research chemist. He has held a
number of positions in the research and development organization, and became
Director, Polymers Research Division in 1995, was appointed Vice President,
Polymers Technology in 1997, and appointed Vice President and Chief Technology
Officer in 2001. He was appointed to his current position in January 2003

.

Curtis E. Espeland, age 38, is Controller of the Company. Mr. Espeland joined
Eastman in 1996. At Eastman, Mr. Espeland has served as Director of Internal
Auditing and Director of Financial Services, Asia Pacific, was named Assistant
Controller of the Company and Controller of Eastman Division in 2002, and
was appointed to his current position in December 2002. Prior to joining
Eastman, he was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Andersen
LLP.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

PROPERTIES

At December 31, 2002 Eastman operated 41 manufacturing sites in 17 countries.
Utilization of these facilities may vary with product mix and economic,
seasonal, and other business conditions, but none of the principal plants are
substantially idle. The Company’s plants, including approved expansions,
generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near-term
growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in good operating
condition, and suitable and adequate for their use. Unless otherwise indicated,
all of the properties are owned. The locations and general character of the
major manufacturing facilities are:

Segment using manufacturing facility

Location

CASPI

PCI

SP

Polymers

Fibers

USA and Canada

Batesville, Arkansas

x

x

Lynwood, California

x

Columbus, Georgia

x

Forest Park, Georgia

x

Carpentersville, Illinois

x

South Holland, Illinois

x

Jefferson, Pennsylvania

x

Columbia, South Carolina

x

x

Roebuck, South Carolina

x

Kingsport, Tennessee

x

x

x

x

LaVergne, Tennessee

x

Ennis, Texas

x

Longview, Texas

x

x

x

Franklin, Virginia*

x

Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin

x

Rexdale, Ontario, Canada

x

Europe

Kallo, Belgium

x

Sokolov, Czech Republic

x

x

Bury, England*

x

Hartlepool, England

x

Workington, England

x

x

Hamburg, Germany

x

Waterford, Ireland

x

Cola’ di Lazise, Italy

x

Sant’ Albano, Italy

x

Middelburg, Netherlands

x

Rotterdam, Netherlands

x

San Roque, Spain

x

x

x

Molndal, Sweden

x

Llangefni, Wales

x

Asia Pacific

Funing, China

x

Nanping, China

x

Tianjin, China

x

Kuantan, Malaysia**

x

Jurong Island, Singapore**

x

Jurong Town, Singapore**

x

Latin America

Zarate, Argentina

x

Cosoleacaque, Mexico

x

Uruapan, Mexico

x

*  indicates a location that Eastman leases from a third party.

**  indicates a location that Eastman leases from a third party under a long-term ground lease.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Eastman has a 50% interest in Primester, a joint venture that manufactures
cellulose esters at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant. The production of cellulose
esters is an intermediate step in the manufacture of acetate tow and other
cellulose-based products. The Company also has a 50% interest in a
manufacturing facility in Nanjing, People’s Republic of China. This joint
venture produces Eastotac™ hydrocarbon tackifying resins for pressure-sensitive
adhesives, caulks, and sealants. Eastotac™ hydrocarbon resins are also used to
produce hot melt adhesives for packaging applications in addition to glue
sticks, tapes, labels, and other adhesive applications.

Eastman has distribution facilities at all of its plant sites. In addition, the
Company owns or leases over 120 stand-alone distribution facilities in the
United States and 17 other countries. Corporate headquarters are in Kingsport,
Tennessee. The Company’s regional headquarters are in Miami, Florida; the
Hague, the Netherlands; Singapore; and Kingsport, Tennessee. Technical service
is provided to the Company’s customers from technical service centers in Kallo,
Belgium; Kingsport, Tennessee; Kirkby, England; Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin;
and Singapore. Customer service centers are located in Kingsport, Tennessee;
Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Miami, Florida; and Singapore.

A summary of properties, classified by type, is contained in Note 3 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

General

From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to, or targets
of, lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product
liability, personal injury, patent and intellectual property, commercial,
contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety and employment matters,
which are being handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. While
the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, it does not
believe, based upon currently available facts, that the ultimate resolution of
any of such pending matters, including the sorbates litigation and the asbestos
litigation described in the following paragraphs, will have a material adverse
effect on its overall financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
However, adverse developments could negatively impact earnings in a particular
future period.

Sorbates Litigation

As previously reported, on September 30, 1998, the Company entered into a
voluntary plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice and agreed to pay
an $11 million fine to resolve a charge brought against the Company for
violation of Section One of the Sherman Act. Under the agreement, the Company
entered a plea of guilty to one count of price-fixing for sorbates, a class of
food preservatives, from January 1995 through June 1997. The plea agreement was
approved by the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California on October 21, 1998. The Company recognized the entire fine as a
charge against earnings in the third quarter of 1998 and is paying the fine in
installments over a period of five years. On October 26, 1999, the Company
pleaded guilty in a Federal Court of Canada to a violation of the Competition
Act of Canada and was fined $780,000 (Canadian). The plea in Canada admitted
that the same conduct that was the subject of the United States guilty plea had
occurred with respect to sorbates sold in Canada, and prohibited repetition of
the conduct and provides for future monitoring. The Canadian fine has been paid
and was recognized as a charge against earnings in the fourth quarter of 1999.

Following the September 30, 1998 plea agreement, the Company, along with other
defendants, was sued in federal, state and Canadian courts in a number of
putative class action lawsuits filed on behalf of purchasers of sorbates and
products containing sorbates, claiming those purchasers paid more for sorbates
and for products containing sorbates than they would have paid in the absence
of the defendants’ price-fixing. All but three of these more than twenty
lawsuits have been resolved via settlement. No class has been certified in any
of the three unresolved private cases, and the trial court in one of them
decided in October 2002 that the case would not proceed as a class action,
though that decision has been appealed by the plaintiff. One of the other two remaining cases is dormant and the third was filed
on February 7, 2003.

In addition, several states have recently sued the Company and other defendants
in connection with the sorbates matter, seeking unspecified damages,
restitution and civil penalties on behalf of consumers of sorbates in those
respective states. Several other states have advised the Company that they
intend to bring similar actions against the Company and others.

The Company has recognized charges to earnings in each of the past four years
for estimated and actual costs, including legal fees and expenses, related to the sorbates
fine and litigation. While the Company intends to continue to vigorously defend
the remaining sorbates actions unless they can be settled on acceptable terms,
the ultimate outcome of the matters still pending and of additional claims that
could be made is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, although these
matters could result in the Company being subject to monetary
damages, costs or expenses and charges against earnings in particular
periods.

Asbestos Litigation

Over the years, Eastman was named as a defendant, along with numerous other
defendants, in lawsuits in various state courts in which plaintiffs alleged
injury due to exposure to asbestos at Eastman’s manufacturing sites and sought
unspecified monetary damages and other relief. Historically, these cases were
dismissed or settled without a material effect on Eastman’s
results of operations or financial condition.

The Company has recently experienced an increase in the number of asbestos
claims against it. Currently, there are approximately 7,000 claims asserted
against the Company in about 17 cases that also involve hundreds of other defendants. By far, the majority of these claims are in
Mississippi, with smaller numbers in Texas and Illinois. In the recently filed
cases in Mississippi, plaintiffs allege exposure to asbestos-containing
products allegedly made by Eastman. Based on its investigation to date, the Company has
information that it manufactured limited amounts of an asbestos-containing
plastic product between the mid-1960’s and the early 1970’s. The Company’s
investigation has found no evidence that any of the Mississippi plaintiffs
worked with or around any such product alleged to have been manufactured by the
Company. The Company intends to defend vigorously all of these actions or to
settle them on acceptable terms.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

The Company continues to evaluate the allegations and claims made in recent
asbestos-related lawsuits and its insurance coverages. Based on such
evaluation to date, the Company continues to believe that the ultimate
resolution of asbestos cases will not have a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, although these
matters could result in the Company being subject to monetary
damages, costs or expenses and charges against earnings in particular
periods. To date, costs incurred by the Company related to the
recent asbestos-related lawsuits have not been material, and in the
case of the Mississippi claims have been limited to legal fees and
expenses.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders during
the fourth quarter of 2002.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the
“NYSE”) under the symbol EMN. The following table presents the high and low
closing sales prices of the common stock on the NYSE and the cash dividends per
share declared by the Company’s Board of Directors for each quarterly period of
2001 and 2002.

Cash Dividends

High

Low

Declared


First Quarter

$

53.88

$

43.19

$

0.44

Second Quarter

55.25

47.00

0.44

Third Quarter

46.92

30.25

0.44

Fourth Quarter

39.51

33.91

0.44


First Quarter

$

48.99

$

37.82

$

0.44

Second Quarter

49.04

43.30

0.44

Third Quarter

47.82

38.17

0.44

Fourth Quarter

40.53

35.35

0.44

As of December 31, 2002, there were 77,346,296 shares of the Company’s common
stock issued and outstanding, which shares were held by 39,066 stockholders of
record. These shares include 144,825 shares held by the Company’s charitable
foundation. The Company has declared a cash dividend of $0.44 per share during
the first quarter of 2003. Quarterly dividends on common stock, if declared by
the Company’s Board of Directors, are usually paid on or about the first
business day of the month following the end of each quarter. The payment of
dividends is a business decision to be made by the Board of Directors from time
to time based on the Company’s earnings, financial position and prospects, and
such other considerations as the Board considers relevant. Accordingly, while
management currently expects that the Company will continue to pay the
quarterly cash dividend, its dividend policy may change at any time.

For information concerning issuance of shares and option grants in 2002 under
compensation and benefit plans and shares held by the Company’s charitable
foundation, see Notes 13 and 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

Information require by Item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K is set forth under Part III — Item
12 —
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters” and is incorporated herein by
reference.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

In 2002 the Company adopted the non-amortization provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142. As a result of the adoption
of SFAS No. 142, results for the year 2002 do not include certain amounts of
amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that are included in prior years’ financial results.
See Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for additional
information.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman
Chemical Company (“Eastman” or the “Company”), which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America,
and should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All references to earnings
per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless
otherwise noted.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the
Company’s management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and
the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the
appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to
base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its
estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives,
doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, impaired assets, restructuring of
operations, environmental costs, pensions and other postemployment benefits,
goodwill and intangible assets, and litigation and contingencies. The Company
bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions. The Company’s management believes the critical accounting policies
described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the
Company’s financial condition and results. The policies require management’s
more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

Customer Programs and Incentives

The Company records estimated obligations for customer programs and incentive
offerings, which consist primarily of revenue or volume-based amounts that a
customer must achieve over a specified period of time, as a reduction of revenue
to each underlying revenue transaction as the customer progresses toward
reaching goals specified in incentive agreements. These estimates are based on
a combination of forecast of customer sales and actual sales volumes and
revenues against established goals, the customer’s current level of purchases,
and Eastman’s knowledge of customer purchasing habits and industry pricing
practice. The incentive payment rate may be variable, based upon the customer
reaching higher sales volume or revenue levels over a specified period of time
in order to receive an agreed upon incentive payment. The Company’s reserve for
customer programs and incentives was $50 million, $44 million, and $49 million
at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, and was recorded as a
reduction of trade receivables. If market conditions change, the Company may
take actions to adjust customer incentive offerings to maintain market share
and capacity utilization.

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Management continuously assesses the financial condition of the Company’s
customers and the markets in which these customers participate and adjusts
credit limits or the allowance for doubtful accounts based on this periodic
review. Actual losses for uncollectible accounts have historically been
consistent with the Company’s estimates. However, deteriorating financial
conditions of certain key customers or a significant continued slow down in the
economy could have a material negative impact on the Company’s ability to
collect on accounts, in which case additional allowances may be required. The
Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts was $32 million, $35 million, and $16
million at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Further
information is provided in Schedule II, “Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.”

In response to economic developments in Argentina in late 2001, management
established a reserve for credit risks related to devaluation of the peso. At
December 31, 2001, the reserve was established at
$18 million and at December 31, 2002, $3 million remained in the reserve. Management believes the
reserve balance at December 31, 2002 adequately reflects the Company’s
potential losses.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Inventory Reserves

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company determines
the cost of most raw materials, work in process, and finished goods inventories
in the United States of America by the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method. At December 31,
2002, 2001, and 2000 the Company had $273 million, $288 million, and $275
million, respectively, recorded in the LIFO reserve. The cost of all other
inventories, including inventories outside the United States of
America, is determined by
the average cost method, which approximates the first-in, first-out method.
The Company regularly compares inventory quantities on hand against anticipated
future requirements to identify and evaluate inventory items for obsolescence
and excessive quantities. Several factors, such as decisions to exit product
lines, technological changes, changes in customer requirements, and new product
development, could result in a change in the amount of obsolete or excess
inventory quantities on hand. Additionally, estimates of future product demand
may prove to be inaccurate, in which case excess and obsolete inventory
provisions may be understated or overstated. The Company writes down its
inventories for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the
difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based
upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market
conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional
inventory write-downs may be required. The Company’s reserve for excess and
obsolete inventories was $5 million at December 31, 2002, and $2 million at
December 31, 2001 and 2000.

Impaired Assets

The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and
used, including definite-lived intangible assets, when events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The
carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired when the total
projected undiscounted cash flows from such asset are separately identifiable
and are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized
based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the
long-lived asset. Fair value is determined primarily using the projected cash
flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. Losses on
long-lived assets to be disposed of are determined in a similar manner, except
that fair values are reduced for disposal costs. As the Company’s assumptions
related to assets to be held and used are subject to change, additional
write-downs may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less
costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is
adjusted, resulting in recognition of a charge or benefit to earnings.

Restructuring of Operations

The Company records restructuring charges incurred in connection with
consolidation or relocation of operations, exited business lines, or shutdowns
of specific sites. These restructuring charges, which reflect management’s
commitment to a termination or exit plan that generally will begin
and will be substantially completed within 12
months, are based on estimates of the expected costs associated with site
closure, legal and environmental matters, demolition, contract terminations, or
other costs directly related to the restructuring. If the actual cost incurred
exceeds the estimated cost, an additional charge to earnings will result. If
the actual cost is less than the estimated cost, a credit to earnings will be
recognized. At December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, the Company’s reserve for
restructuring of operations, including severance and site closure costs, was $9
million, $23 million, and $10 million, respectively. For additional information
see Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Environmental Costs

The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company
has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a
single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated
within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. The amount accrued
reflects the Company’s assumptions about remediation requirements at the
contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with
regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party
sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible
parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based,
unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety,
environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could
result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental contingencies
ranged from the minimum or best estimate of $97 million to the maximum of $111
million at December 31, 2002. The Company’s reserve for environmental contingencies was
$60 million, $54 million, and $49 million at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000,
respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs
and, for closure/postclosure, costs accrued to date over the facilities’
estimated useful lives. For additional information see Note 11 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements and Schedule II, “Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts.”



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits

The Company maintains defined benefit plans that provide eligible employees
with retirement benefits. Additionally, Eastman provides life insurance and
health care benefits for eligible retirees and health care benefits for
retirees’ eligible survivors. The costs and obligations related to these
benefits reflect the Company’s assumptions related to general economic
conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate
of compensation increase for employees and health care cost trends. At
December 31, 2002, the Company assumed a discount rate of 6.75%; an expected
return on assets of 9.0%; a rate of compensation increase of 4.0%; and an
initial health care cost trend of 10%. The cost of providing plan benefits also
depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover
and plan participation. If actual experience differs from these assumptions,
the cost of providing these benefits could increase or decrease. For example, a
1% increase in health care cost trend would increase the 2002 service and
interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $40 million. A
1% decrease in health care cost trend would decrease the 2002 service and
interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $34 million.
For additional information see Note 9 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

Prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the Company amortized certain
intangible assets on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
such assets. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, effective
January 1, 2002. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company performs the
annual review for impairment at the reporting unit
level, which Eastman has determined to be one level below its
operating segment level and considers the criteria set forth in SFAS
No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. The tests are performed by determining the fair values of the reporting units
using a discounted cash flow model and comparing those fair values to the
carrying values of the reporting units, including goodwill. If the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company then allocates
the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that
reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the
reporting unit’s fair value was the price to acquire the reporting unit. The
excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its
assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the
carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value
of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to such
excess. Events or changes in circumstances could occur that may create
underperformance relative to projected future cash flows which could create
future impairments. At December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, the Company recorded
approximately $344 million, $339 million, and $344 million, respectively, of
goodwill and $229 million, $275 million, and $277 million, respectively, of
other intangibles.

Litigation and Contingent Liabilities

From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of
lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability,
personal injury, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract,
environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are
handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues a
liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the
amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of
operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Nonrecurring Items

It is the Company’s policy to report as a “nonrecurring item” a material charge
or gain that is not associated with on-going operations or that is caused by
unique events not reflective of the Company’s normal business activities in the
period if such items individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on
a specific line item in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) or have
a material impact on results overall. The Company believes that separately
reporting such charges or gains enhances transparency and comparability of
results by removing distortion that would otherwise occur. Examples of such
items that have been separately reported in the past under this policy include
material charges or gains resulting from asset impairments and restructuring of
operations, including employee terminations; litigation not related to on-going
operations; discontinued businesses; and acquisition charges including those
related to acquired in-process research and development. Nonrecurring items are
appropriately identified in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss).

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS  — 2002 COMPARED WITH 2001

The Company’s results of operations as presented in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements appearing in this Annual Report are described
below:

Earnings (Loss)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)



Operating earnings (loss)

$


$

(120

)

Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle


(175

)

Net earnings (loss)


(175

)

Earnings (loss) per share

— Basic

0.79

(2.28

)

— Diluted

0.79

(2.28

)

Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net



Other nonrecurring operating items

—


Other nonrecurring charges

—


Operating earnings for 2002 were significantly impacted by lower selling prices
for all of the Company’s segments. Such selling prices decreased more than raw
material costs, resulting in a reduction in gross margin in excess of $100
million. Higher sales volumes and lower unit costs resulting from increased
capacity utilization had a positive impact on operating earnings for 2002.

In addition, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by:

•

approximately $39
million due to operational disruptions at the Company’s Columbia, South Carolina
and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities;

•

costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment
dismantlements and other write-offs recorded in the fourth quarter 2002
totaling approximately $17 million;

•

an unfavorable shift in product mix; and

•

asset impairments and restructuring charges (as described more
fully below and in Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements) totaling approximately $5 million.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by:

•

asset impairments and restructuring charges and other nonrecurring
operating items totaling approximately $446 million (as described more
fully below and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements); and

•

the effect of amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets totaling approximately $20 million.

Product

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Volume Effect

Price Effect

Mix Effect

Exchange Rate Effect

Sales

$

5,320

$

5,390

(1

)%


%

(7

)%

(2

)%


%

Sales revenue for 2002 declined slightly compared to 2001 primarily due to
lower selling prices for all of the Company’s segments which had a negative
impact on revenues of $351 million. The decline in selling prices is
indicative of the Company’s inability to increase its selling prices for some
of its products, as discussed below, and also of a persistently sluggish global
economy, particularly for manufacturers. Increased sales volumes for all of the
Company’s segments had a positive impact on sales revenue of $359 million.

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Gross Profit

$


$


(13

)%

As a percentage of sales

14.6

%

16.6

%

Decreased selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit for 2002 of $351
million, offset approximately two-thirds by decreased raw material costs.
Operational disruptions at the Company’s plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands
and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted gross profit by
approximately $39 million.
Fourth quarter 2002 asset charges relating primarily to equipment
dismantlements and other write-offs totaling approximately $17 million also had
a negative impact on gross profit.

The following factors affect the Company’s ability to impact margins by
increasing selling prices:

•

the worldwide supply/demand balance of products and services sold by the Company;

•

the relative cost positions of the Company’s competitors;

•

the power of the Company’s customers to resist rising selling prices; and

•

whether or not the Company’s products and services are different or
unique compared to products offered by its competitors.

The Company expects that higher raw material costs and a sluggish global
economy in 2003 will negatively impact operating results unless the Company is
able to offset this impact in part through price increases for
certain of its products and through various cost control measures. In
addition, the Company has begun taking the following actions to improve its
near-term and long-term profitability:

•

immediate corporate actions to reduce costs in the areas of labor,
travel, contractors, fees and out-of-pocket purchases of all kinds;

•

implementation of organizational changes to improve efficiency and
better enable strategy execution; and

•

review of the Company’s portfolio of products and businesses,
primarily in the Eastman Division; the Company expects that some of its
product lines or businesses may be removed from its portfolio to
improve profitability.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Selling
and General Administrative Expenses

$


$



%

Research
and Development Expenses



(1

)%

$


$


As a percentage of sales

10.6

%

10.5

%

Selling and general administrative expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001
even though costs related to the Company’s growth initiatives increased from
$35 million in 2001 to approximately $50 million in 2002. This increase was
offset by cost control efforts. For 2003, the Company expects to recognize
increased selling and general administrative expenses related to Cendian
Corporation (“Cendian”), the Company’s logistics subsidiary, as it adds
capacity while continuing to add new customers and revenues. Research and
development expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001. While the Company
expects research and development expenses to increase in 2003, the combined
costs related to selling and general administrative expenses and research and
development expenses are expected to continue to be at or below 11% of sales
revenue.

Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Termination of raw material supply agreement

$

—

$


Under-performing polyethylene assets



Consolidation and restructuring of CASPI operations



Restructuring of fine chemicals product lines

(1

)


Under-utilized specialty plastics assets

—


Discontinuation of precolored-green PET

—


Cessation of production at solid-stating facility

—


Impaired PCI European assets

—


$


$


In 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded charges related to the write-down of
underperforming polyethylene assets totaling approximately $1 million and $103
million, respectively. Also in 2001, the Company recorded a charge of $108
million for the write-off of a prepaid asset related to the termination of a
raw material supply agreement. These charges were reflected in the Polymers
segment.

Consolidation and restructuring of the operations of the Coatings, Adhesives,
Specialty Polymers, and Inks (“CASPI”) segment resulted in restructuring
charges, including related asset write-downs, of approximately $5 million in
2002 and $77 million in 2001. In the fourth quarter 2002, the Company
recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure
of plants in Duesseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee;
and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2
million related to certain other European assets. A change in estimate for
shutdown reserves for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter 2002.

In the fourth quarter 2002, a change in estimate related to the
sale of operating assets resulted in a $2 million credit to
earnings in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates
(“PCI”) segment. A charge of approximately $1 million related to
impaired research and development assets was also recognized in the
PCI segment. Both of these items were related to the
Company’s fine chemicals product lines. In 2001, the Company recorded
restructuring charges, including related asset write-downs, of approximately
$70 million related to its restructuring of the fine chemicals
product lines.

During 2001, the Company recorded asset impairment charges related to
under-utilized assets including $10 million related to the discontinuation of
the precolored-green PET product line in Kingsport, Tennessee; $10 million
related to cessation of production at the Company’s solid-stating facility in
Toronto, Ontario; $15 million related to deterioration of demand for certain
specialty plastics products produced in Kingsport, Tennessee; and $3 million
related to other impaired assets in Europe. Approximately $20 million of these
charges were reflected in the Polymers segment, $15 million in the Specialty
Plastics (“SP”) segment, and $3 million in the PCI segment.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

For additional information regarding these asset impairments and restructuring
charges, see Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Other Nonrecurring Operating Items

(Dollars in millions)



Costs
associated with efforts to spin-off specialty chemicals and plastics businesses

$

—

$


Write-down of accounts receivable resulting from economic crisis in Argentina

—


Pension settlement charge

—


Write-off of Hercules Businesses in-process research and development

—


$

—

$


Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $50 million were recognized in
2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated
with efforts to spin-off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an
$18 million write-down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from
the economic crisis in Argentina; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a
$5 million write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to
the May 2001 acquisition of certain businesses from Hercules Incorporated
(“Hercules Businesses”). Approximately $26 million of these items were
reflected in the Polymers segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment, $7 million
in the PCI segment, $4 million in the SP segment, and $2 million in the Fibers
segment.

Interest Expense, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Gross interest costs

$


$


Less capitalized interest



Interest expense



(12

)%

Interest income



Interest expense, net

$


$


(13

)%

Lower interest expense for 2002 compared to 2001 reflected a net reduction in
borrowings and decreases in market interest rates, partially offset by a higher
interest rate on the Company’s April 2002 10-year bond issue versus the interest
rate on commercial paper that was outstanding during the prior period.

Other (Income) Charges, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Other income

$

(14

)

$

(11

)


%

Other charges



(27

)%

Other (income) charges, net

$


$


Other income for 2002 primarily reflected the Company’s portion of earnings
from its equity investments and a gain on foreign exchange transactions. The
Company’s portion of earnings from its equity investments was net of a charge of $5 million related to
the previously announced restructuring of Genencor International,
Inc., (“Genencor”) in which
the Company owns an approximate 42% equity interest. Other income for 2001 primarily
reflected the Company’s portion of earnings from its equity
investment in Genencor.

Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write-down to fair value of
certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary
declines in value and fees on securitized receivables. Other charges for 2001
primarily reflected fees on securitized receivables.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Other Nonrecurring Charges

(Dollars in millions)



Other nonrecurring charges

$

—

$


Other nonrecurring charges for 2001 totaling $20 million consisted of a $12
million charge for currency losses resulting from the economic crisis in
Argentina and $8 million of sorbates civil litigation settlement costs and
other professional fees.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

$


$

(116

)

(104

)%

Effective tax rate

5.4

%

39.8

%

The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million
resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods’ tax contingencies, by
a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the
Company’s divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142.

The 2001 effective tax rate was impacted by the significant asset impairments
and restructuring charges recorded during 2001 as described above.

In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales
corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion, and management expects these
benefits to continue into 2003. The Company also expects its effective tax rate
in 2003 will return to a more normal historical level of 30% to 33%.

Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net

$

(18

)

$

—

In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the
first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was
determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI
segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows,
was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an
after-tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter
2002. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss)
as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the
Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled
workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million
to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the
transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this
Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January
1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and
determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company
plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless
events warrant more frequent testing.

For additional information regarding the change in accounting principle, see
Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT

The Company’s products and operations are managed and reported in five
operating segments. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company implemented a
divisional structure that separated the businesses into two divisions. Eastman
Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment and the SP segment.
Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The
divisional structure has allowed the Company to align costs more directly with
the activities and businesses that generate them. The divisional and segment
results for 2002, but not for prior periods, reflect this new cost structure.

With the implementation of the divisional structure, goods and services are
transferred between the two divisions at predetermined prices that may be in
excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the
recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such
interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. Prior to 2002, segment sales revenue reflected only
actual sales to third parties and the intersegment transfer of goods and
services, recorded at cost, had no impact on segment earnings.

All Eastman Chemical Company assets were allocated to the divisions as of
January 1, 2002. Corporate, general purpose and other nonoperating assets were
allocated to segments within each division based on process or product
responsibility. Certain infrastructure assets at each site, primarily utilities
that were previously allocated to all five segments, were allocated to the
primary division at that site. The primary division invoices the other division
for services provided by such infrastructure assets.

Effective January 1, 2002, sales and operating results for Cendian, the
Company’s logistics subsidiary and an Eastman Division initiative, are included
in amounts for the CASPI, PCI and SP segments, and have been allocated to these
segments on the basis of sales revenues for each of these segments. Prior to
2002, sales and operating results for Cendian were allocated to all five
segments.

Effective January 1, 2002, certain compounded polyethylene products were moved
from the Polymers segment to the SP segment. Accordingly, amounts for 2001 and
2000 have been reclassified to reflect this change. Operating
earnings for 2002 for the CASPI segment and the SP segment
have been reclassified from those presented in the Company’s January 30, 2003 sales and earnings press release.

The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty
polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts,
adhesives and other markets. The CASPI segment’s products consist of binders
and resins, liquid vehicles, pigment concentrates and additives, unsaturated
polyester resins and polyester and acrylic emulsions. Binders and resins, such
as alkyd and polyester resins, hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters,
are used in adhesives as key components in paints and inks to form a protective
coating or film, and bind color to the substrate. Liquid vehicles, such as
ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for
ease of application. Pigment concentrates and additives, such as cellulosic
polymers, Texanol™ coalescing aid and chlorinated polyolefins, provide
different properties or performance enhancements to the end product.
Unsaturated polyester resins are used primarily in gel coats and fiberglass
reinforced plastics. Polyester and acrylic emulsions are traditionally used as
textile sizes to protect fibers during processing in textile manufacturing, and
the technology is also used in water-based paints, coatings and inks.
Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new
applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved.

The Company’s PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a
variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including
chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage
ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer
compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates.

The SP segment produces highly specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics
that possess unique performance properties for value-added end uses such as
appliances, in-store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronics
and electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics,
performance films, tape and labels, biodegradeables, cups and lids, fiber and
strapping, photographic and optical, graphic arts and general packaging. The
SP segment’s key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty
film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage
and food packaging and other applications such as custom-care and cosmetics
packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and
industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety
of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care
items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave
oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low-density polyethylene and
linear low-density polyethylene, which are used primarily for packaging and
film applications and in extrusion coated containers such as milk and juice
cartons.

The Fibers segment manufactures Estron™ acetate tow and Estrobond™ triacetin
plasticizers for the cigarette filter market; Chromspun™ and
Estron™ acetate
yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; and acetate
flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers.

For additional information concerning an analysis of the results of the
Company’s operating segments, see Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements and Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report.

EASTMAN DIVISION

CASPI Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,605

$

1,508


%

Volume effect


%

Price effect

(3

)%

Product mix effect


%

Exchange rate effect


%

Interdivisional effect


%

Operating earnings (loss)


(35

)

N/A

Asset impairments and restructuring charges



Other nonrecurring operating items

—


2002 Compared With 2001

Sales revenue for 2002 increased moderately compared to 2001 mainly due to
interdivisional sales and increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact
on sales revenue of $61 million and $58 million,
respectively. The increase in sales volumes
for 2002 was primarily due to the Hercules
Businesses. Lower selling prices had
a negative impact on sales revenue of $49 million.

Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million as described above and
in Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Operating
results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges and other nonrecurring operating items totaling
approximately $88 million as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Operating
results for 2001
were also impacted by amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles
totaling approximately $20 million.

In addition to the items above, selling prices for
2002 declined more than raw
material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating earnings for 2002
were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating
primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write-offs totaling
approximately $6 million.

For 2003, the Company expects the focus for the CASPI segment to be more on
improved margins and profitability than on sales volume gains, except for the
strong growth potential for CASPI products in the Asia Pacific and Latin
America regions. Additionally, the Company expects further rationalization of
businesses and products and consolidation of manufacturing facilities in the
CASPI segment to improve overall gross margin.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

PCI Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,515

$

1,132


%

Volume effect


%

Price effect

(6

)%

Product mix effect

(5

)%

Exchange rate effect


%

Interdivisional
effect


%

Operating
loss

(15

)

(76

)


%

Asset
impairments and restructuring charges (gains)

(1

)


Other nonrecurring operating items

—


2002 Compared With 2001

Sales revenue for 2002 increased $383 million including interdivisional sales,
but declined $38 million excluding interdivisional sales. Lower selling prices
had a negative impact on revenues of $65 million. Increased
sales volumes had a positive impact on sales revenue of $87 million,
partially offset by an unfavorable shift in
product mix, which had a negative impact on revenues of
$65 million. The shift in product mix was primarily due to
increased sales volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly glacial
acetic acid in the acetyl and intermediates product group.

In 2002, a change in estimate resulting in a credit of approximately $2 million
related to the sale of operating assets and a charge of approximately $1
million related to impaired research and development assets, as more fully
described above and in Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, were recognized in the PCI segment. Results for 2001 were
negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling
approximately $73 million and other nonrecurring operating items totaling
approximately $7 million, as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the items above, selling prices for 2002 declined more than raw
material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating results for 2002 were
also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to
equipment dismantlements and other write-offs totaling approximately $3
million.

During 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment did
not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30,
2002. As a consequence, the related assets were impaired as expected cash flows
over the remaining term of the contract were not sufficient to recover the
carrying value of such assets. Nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $70
million related to the impacted assets were recorded during 2001 as part of the
restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines, as described in Note 15 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements. Subsequently, the customer
initiated discussions with the Company which resulted in an agreement being
reached in June 2002 to extend the custom synthesis product contract one year
based on renegotiated terms. Sales revenue related to the contract extension
was approximately 3% of the PCI segment’s sales revenue for 2002.

Long-term, the Company expects that aggressive management of costs in the PCI
segment will help improve margins and position it to take full advantage of the
upturn expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe. The PCI segment is
aggressively identifying and implementing six sigma projects to reduce costs
and improve performance.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SP Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$


$



%

Volume effect


%

Price effect

(4

)%

Product mix effect


%

Exchange rate effect


%

Interdivisional effect


%

Operating earnings



(50

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges

—


Other nonrecurring operating items

—


2002 Compared With 2001

Sales revenue for 2002 increased $60 million compared to 2001 including
interdivisional sales, but decreased $6 million excluding interdivisional
sales. The decline in sales revenue excluding interdivisional sales was
attributed to a decline in selling prices, which had a negative impact on sales
revenue of $19 million. The decline in selling prices was partially offset by
increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $12
million.

Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $15 million and other nonrecurring
operating items totaling approximately $4 million, as more fully described
above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the items above, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively
impacted by lower selling prices, mainly for cellulosic plastics products. The
decline in operating earnings for 2002 was also partially due to the
recognition of technology licensing revenue of $6 million that was reflected in
results for 2001. New competitors in Asia and Europe negatively impacted results
for copolyesters during 2002. However, the Company is committed to maintaining
its cost advantages obtained from its scale of operations and manufacturing
experience and increasing its utilization of current capacity.

VORIDIAN DIVISION

Polymers Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,565

$

1,587

(1

)%

Volume effect


%

Price effect

(13

)%

Product mix effect


%

Exchange rate effect


%

Interdivisional effect


%

Operating earnings (loss)


(201

)

N/A

Asset impairments and restructuring charges



Other nonrecurring operating items

—




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2002 Compared With 2001

The slight decrease in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due
to lower selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a
negative impact on revenues of $207 million. Increased sales volumes, for both
PET polymers and polyethylene, had a positive impact on revenues of $131
million. Interdivisional sales also had a positive impact on revenues of $55
million.

A nonrecurring charge of approximately $1 million related to impaired
polyethylene assets was recognized in the fourth quarter 2002. Results for 2001
were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges
totaling approximately $231 million and other nonrecurring operating items
totaling approximately $26 million, as more fully described above and in Notes
15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the items above, operational disruptions at the Company’s plants
in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted
operating earnings for 2002 by approximately $39 million. The Company expects
the insurance claims process associated with the operational disruptions to be
settled in 2003, and that such settlement will positively impact operating
earnings and cash flows when completed. Operating earnings for 2002 were also
negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to
equipment dismantlements and other write-offs totaling approximately $3
million. Operating earnings for 2002 were positively impacted by increased
sales volumes for PET polymers, lower raw material costs, and better operation
and utilization of polyethylene assets.

For 2003, the Company expects continued profitability from its PET polymers
products as the Company maintains its focus on lowering costs and growing along
with overall market demand growth. Longer term, the Company expects global
demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of approximately 10%
annually over the next several years. The Company also expects peaks and
troughs in the Polymers segment created by supply and demand imbalances to be
less pronounced in the future; capacity utilization in the Polymers segment to
be lower in 2003 than in 2002 based on industry projections worldwide; and
capacity utilization to vary by region.

Fibers Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$


$



%

Volume effect


%

Price effect

(2

)%

Product mix effect

(7

)%

Exchange rate effect


%

Interdivisional effect


%

Operating earnings



(9

)%

Other nonrecurring operating items

—


2002 Compared With 2001

The increase in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due to
interdivisional sales and higher sales volumes. Interdivisional sales had a
positive impact on revenues of $73 million. Increased sales volumes had a
positive impact on revenues of $69 million, largely offset by an unfavorable
shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $47
million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was due to increased sales
volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly acetyl raw materials. Lower
selling prices, primarily for acetyl raw materials, had a negative impact on
sales revenue of $11 million.

Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by other nonrecurring operating items
totaling approximately $2 million related to costs associated with efforts to
spin-off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses as more fully
described above and in Note 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to
equipment dismantlements and other write-offs totaling approximately $3
million.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

For 2003, the Company expects the Fibers segment to experience flat to slightly
lower revenues but consistent operating earnings and cash flows.

SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION —
2002 COMPARED WITH 2001

Sales Revenue

Exchange

Product

Rate

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Volume Effect

Price Effect

Mix Effect

Effect

United States and
Canada

$

3,040

$

3,202

(5

)%


%

(6

)%

(3

)%


%

Europe, Middle East,
and Africa

1,170

1,148


%


%

(7

)%


%


%

Asia Pacific




%


%

(5

)%


%


%

Latin America



(2

)%


%

(13

)%


%

(2

)%

$

5,320

$

5,390

Sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2002 decreased $162 million
compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices. The decline in selling
prices, which occurred in all segments, had a negative impact on revenues of
$185 million. An unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily in the PCI and
Fibers segments, had a negative impact on revenues of $107 million offset by
increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on revenues of $131
million.

Sales revenue in Europe, Middle East, and Africa for 2002 increased $22 million
compared to 2001 due to increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on
revenues of $58 million, and the positive effect of foreign currency exchange
rates, which had a positive impact on revenues of $43 million. These increases
were mostly offset by decreased selling prices, primarily for the Polymers
segment, which had a negative impact on revenues of $78 million.

Sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region for 2002 increased $81 million
compared to 2001 due to higher sales volumes, primarily for acetyl and
intermediates products, which had a positive impact on revenues of $113
million. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on revenues of $27 million.

Sales revenue in Latin America for 2002 decreased $11 million compared to 2001
primarily due to lower selling prices, which had a negative impact on revenues
of $61 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on revenues of
$58 million. Both the decrease in selling prices and the increase in sales
volumes were predominantly attributed to the Polymers segment. Foreign currency
exchange rates had a negative impact on revenues of $8 million.

With a substantial portion of sales to customers
outside the United States of America,
Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international
markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to
negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In addition, where it deems such
actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions
and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its
assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is
appropriate. See Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
Part II—Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS — 2001 COMPARED WITH 2000

Earnings (Loss)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)



Change

Operating earnings (loss)

$

(120

)

$


(121

)%

Net earnings (loss)

(175

)


(158

)%

Earnings (loss) per share

— Basic

(2.28

)

3.95

(158

)%

— Diluted

(2.28

)

3.94

(159

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges



Other nonrecurring operating items



Other nonrecurring items



The operating loss of $120 million for 2001 was $682 million below the 2000
operating earnings of $562 million. Operating results for 2001 and 2000
included asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately
$396 million and $13 million, respectively, and other nonrecurring operating
items totaling approximately $50 million and $8 million, respectively, as more
fully described below and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. In 2001, lower sales volumes excluding acquisitions,
higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization, and additional selling
and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses from
acquisitions also negatively impacted operating results. The decline in sales
volumes in existing businesses was attributed to weaker economic demand
worldwide.

Product

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Volume Effect

Price Effect

Mix Effect

Exchange Rate Effect

Sales

$

5,390

$

5,292


%


%


%


%

(1

)%

Revenue from acquisitions contributed 8% or $411 million to the increase in
sales revenue, partially offset by decreased sales volumes in existing
businesses, which had a negative impact of 5% or $245 million on sales revenue.
The decline in sales volumes in existing businesses was attributed to weaker
economic demand worldwide. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative
impact on sales revenue of $56 million. Overall selling prices remained flat
compared to 2000.

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Gross Profit

$


$

1,078

(17

)%

As a percentage of sales

16.6

%

20.4

%

In 2001, gross profit was negatively impacted by lower sales volumes in
existing businesses attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Higher unit
costs driven by lower capacity utilization also had a negative impact on gross
profit.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Selling
and General Administrative Expenses

$


$



%

Research
and Development Expenses




%

$


$


As a percentage of sales

10.5

%

9.4

%

Higher selling and general administrative expenses primarily reflected
additional costs associated with recent acquisitions, including integration
costs, and costs incurred by Cendian to develop its capacity to establish new
customers in the chemicals logistics business. Research and development
expenses increased for 2001 compared to 2000 mainly due to costs associated
with the Hercules Businesses and McWhorter Technologies, Inc.
(“McWhorter”).

Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges

In 2001, nonrecurring charges totaling $396 million related to asset
impairments and restructuring costs were recognized.

(Dollars in millions)



Termination of raw material supply agreement

$


$

—

Under-performing polyethylene assets


—

Consolidation and restructuring of CASPI segment operations


—

Restructuring of fine chemicals product lines


—

Under-utilized specialty plastics assets


—

Discontinuation of precolored-green PET


—

Cessation of production at solid-stating facility


—

Impaired PCI European assets


—

Sorbates manufacturing exit costs

—


Distillation Products Industries exit costs

—


$


$


In 2001, approximately $231 million of asset impairment and restructuring
charges were incurred in the Polymers segment. A charge of $108 million was
recognized for the write-off of a prepaid asset related to the termination of a
raw material supply agreement and a charge of $103 million was recognized for
the write-down of underperforming polyethylene assets. A $10 million charge
related to discontinuation of the precolored-green PET product line in
Kingsport, Tennessee and a $10 million charge related to cessation of
production at the Company’s solid-stating facility in Toronto, Ontario were
also recognized.

The consolidation and restructuring of the operations of the CASPI segment
resulted in restructuring charges, including related asset write-downs,
totaling $77 million. Of these charges, $27 million related to the closure of
an operating site in Duesseldorf, Germany that was obtained in the acquisition
of Jager and $21 million related to the closure of a Moundville, Alabama plant
that was obtained in the acquisition of Lawter International, Inc. The closure
of plants in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon that were obtained
in the acquisition of McWhorter resulted in charges of $20 million being
recognized. These restructuring charges included write-downs of the fixed
assets at these facilities, severance accruals for employees impacted by the
plant shutdowns, and other costs associated with closing the facilities.
Charges of $6 million and $3 million were recorded for the write-down of
impaired operating assets in North America and Europe, respectively.

The PCI segment incurred total nonrecurring charges of $73 million in 2001.
Approximately $70 million of these charges resulted from the Company’s on-going
restructuring of its fine chemicals product lines to reduce costs and to write
down assets determined to be impaired. The restructuring initiative and related
asset impairments included assets at the Company’s Tennessee and Arkansas sites
within the United States, a plant in Wales, and a plant in Hong Kong. A charge
of $63 million pertained primarily to write-downs of fixed assets associated
with product lines that the Company will no longer pursue, net of the effect of
a reversal of a customer deposit related to the impacted assets, and



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

write-downs of other long-term deposits. A charge of $7
million pertained primarily to severance accruals for employees impacted by the
plant shutdowns, closure costs, and write-downs of fixed assets. An additional
charge of $3 million was recognized for other impaired assets in the European
region.

The Company recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $15 million
associated with under-utilized assets in the SP segment. These charges related
to deterioration of demand for certain specialty plastics products produced in
Kingsport, Tennessee.

Approximately $75 million of the charges discussed above were recognized in the
fourth quarter 2001. Of this total, $36 million related to the consolidation
and restructuring of the operations of the CASPI segment; $20 million related
to asset impairment charges associated with under-utilized assets in the
Polymers segment; $15 million related to under-utilized specialty plastics
assets; $3 million related to impaired PCI European assets; and $1 million
related to the Company’s on-going restructuring of its fine chemicals product
lines.

In 2000, nonrecurring charges totaling $13 million were recognized, of which $8
million related to costs associated with exiting the sorbates manufacturing
site at Chocolate Bayou, Texas, and $5 million related to the shutdown of
facilities at Distillation Products Industries in Rochester, New York. These
charges were reflected in the PCI segment.

For additional information regarding these asset impairments and restructuring
charges, see Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Other Nonrecurring Operating Items

(Dollars in millions)



Costs
associated with efforts to spin-off specialty chemicals and plastics businesses

$


$

—

Write-down of accounts receivable resulting from economic crisis in Argentina


—

Pension settlement charge


—

Write-off of Hercules Businesses in-process research and development


—

Write-off of McWhorter in-process research and development

—


Gain on sale of assets

—

(1

)

$


$


Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $50 million were recognized in
2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated
with efforts to spin-off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an
$18 million write-down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from
the economic crisis in Argentina; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a
$5 million write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to
the acquisition of the Hercules Businesses. Approximately $26 million of these
items were reflected in the Polymers segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment,
$7 million in the PCI segment, $4 million in the SP segment, and $2 million in
the Fibers segment.

Other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $8 million were
recorded in 2000. Reflected in the CASPI segment was a $9 million charge to
write off in-process research and development related to the McWhorter
acquisition, partially offset by a $1 million gain on the sale of certain
assets, reflected in the Polymers segment.

Interest Expense, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Gross interest costs

$


$


Less capitalized interest



Interest expense




%

Interest income



Interest expense, net

$


$



%



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Higher interest expense reflected higher average commercial paper and other
short-term borrowings used to finance the purchase of recent acquisitions and
for general financing and investing activities, partially offset by lower
average borrowing rates of approximately 6.5% for 2001 compared to
approximately 7.25% for 2000.

Other (Income) Charges, Net

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Other income

$

(11

)

$

(31

)

(65

)%

Other charges



(35

)%

Other (income) charges, net

$


$


Gain recognized on initial public offering of Genencor

$

—

$

(38

)

Other income includes the Company’s portion of
earnings from its equity
investments, gains on sales of nonoperating assets, royalty income, gains on
foreign exchange transactions, and other miscellaneous items. Other income for
2001 primarily reflected the Company’s portion of earnings from
its equity
investment in Genencor. Other income for 2000 primarily reflected gains on sales of
nonoperating assets and the Company’s portion of earnings from
its equity
investments.

Other charges for 2001 included losses from foreign exchange transactions,
certain litigation costs, losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of
nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables, and other miscellaneous
items. Other charges declined mainly due to a decrease in certain litigation
costs and lower fees related to securitized receivables.

In 2000, a nonrecurring gain of approximately $38 million resulted from the
initial public offering of common shares of Genencor.

Other Nonrecurring Items

(Dollars in millions)



Other nonrecurring items

$


$


Other nonrecurring items for 2001 totaling $20 million consisted of a $12
million charge for currency losses resulting from the economic crisis in
Argentina and $8 million of sorbates civil litigation settlement costs and
other professional fees.

Other nonrecurring items for 2000 totaling $10 million were recognized for
costs related to sorbates civil litigation.

SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT

EASTMAN DIVISION

CASPI Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,508

$

1,176


%

Operating earnings (loss)

(35

)


(128

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges


—

Other nonrecurring operating items





EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2001 Compared With 2000

Sales revenue from acquisitions had a positive impact on sales revenue of $409
million, which was partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes for existing
businesses of $77 million. The decline in sales volumes for existing
businesses was attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Increased
selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of 1% or $15 million,
offset by the negative effect of foreign currency exchange rates of 1% or $16
million.

Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $77 million and by other
nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $11 million. Operating
earnings for 2000 were negatively impacted by other nonrecurring operating
items of approximately $9 million. For further information refer to Notes 15
and 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the above items, operating results for 2001 were negatively
impacted by lower sales volumes excluding acquisitions, higher unit costs
driven by lower capacity utilization, and additional selling and general
administrative expenses and research and development expenses from
acquisitions.

PCI Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,132

$

1,297

(13

)%

Operating earnings (loss)

(76

)


(187

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges



Other nonrecurring operating charges


—

2001 Compared With 2000

Sales revenue declined 10% or $133 million due to lower sales volumes
attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Decreased selling prices had a
negative impact on sales revenue of approximately 1% or $11 million. An
unfavorable shift in product mix had a negative impact on sales revenue of 1%
or $15 million. The remaining decline in sales revenue was attributable to
foreign currency exchange rates.

Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $73 million and other nonrecurring
operating items totaling approximately $7 million. Operating earnings for 2000
were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges
totaling approximately $13 million. For further information see Notes 15 and 16
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the items above, operating results
for 2001 were negatively
impacted by higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization and
decreased sales volumes resulting from weaker economic demand worldwide.

Based upon indications from a large customer of this segment that it did not
intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30,
2002, the Company did not expect to pursue that product in the future. Sales of
that product represented approximately 2% of Eastman’s sales
revenue for 2000 and
approximately 5% of Eastman’s operating earnings for 2000. Financial results
reported after June 30, 2001 reflect a minimal contribution to operating
earnings from this contract.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SP Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$


$


(7

)%

Operating earnings



(56

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges


—

Other nonrecurring operating charges


—

2001 Compared With 2000

Sales revenue declined $38 million mainly due to lower sales volumes, which had
a negative impact on sales revenue of 7% or $39 million. Foreign currency
exchange rates also had a negative effect of 1% or $7 million on sales revenue
while selling prices remained relatively flat compared to 2000. A favorable
shift in product mix had a positive effect on sales revenue of 2% or $9
million.

Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $15 million and by other
nonrecurring operating charges totaling approximately $4 million, as more fully
described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

In addition to the items above, operating earnings for 2001 were negatively
impacted by higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization and
decreased sales volumes resulting from weaker demand, primarily for cellulosic
products.

VORIDIAN DIVISION

Polymers Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$

1,587

$

1,612

(3

)%

Operating earnings (loss)

(201

)


(305

)%

Asset impairments and restructuring charges


—

Other nonrecurring operating items


(1

)

2001 Compared With 2000

Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact on sales revenue of 2% or
$25 million. Decreased selling prices, primarily for polyethylene, also had a
negative impact on sales revenue of 1% or $20 million, partially offset by an
increase in sales volumes, primarily for PET polymers, which had a positive
impact on sales revenue of 1% or $16 million.

Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and
restructuring charges totaling approximately $231 million and by other
nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $26 million. Operating
earnings for 2000 were positively impacted by a $1 million gain on the sale of
certain assets. For further information, see Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Fibers Segment

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Sales

$


$


(1

)%

Operating earnings



(3

)%

Other nonrecurring operating items


—

2001 Compared With 2000

Decreased sales volumes had a negative impact on sales revenue of 2% or $11
million. The sales volume decrease was largely offset by increased selling
prices, primarily related to acetate tow. Foreign currency exchange rates had a
negative effect on sales revenue of 1% or $3 million.

Operating earnings for 2001 included nonrecurring items of approximately $2 million, as
more fully described above and in Note 16 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

Operating earnings for 2001 remained relatively flat as a slight decline in
sales volumes was offset by a slight increase in selling prices.

For additional information concerning the Company’s operating segments,
see Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report and Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION — 2001 COMPARED WITH 2000

Sales Revenue

Exchange

Product

Rate

(Dollars in millions)



Change

Volume Effect

Price Effect

Mix Effect

Effect

United States and Canada

$

3,202

$

3,229

(1

)%


%

(2

)%


%


%

Europe, Middle East, and
Africa

1,148

1,062


%


%


%


%

(3

)%

Asia Pacific




%


%

(4

)%


%

(2

)%

Latin America




%


%


%


%

(2

)%

$

5,390

$

5,292

In the United States and Canada, sales revenue decreased slightly mainly due to
lower sales volumes for existing businesses, attributed to weaker economic
demand, which had a negative impact of 8% or $248 million on sales revenue.
Lower selling prices, primarily for polyethylene, also had a negative impact on
sales revenue of $50 million. These decreases were partially offset by revenue
contributed by acquisitions, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of 9%
or $285 million.

In Europe, Middle East, and Africa, sales revenue increased mainly due to
revenue contributed by acquisitions, which had a positive impact on sales
revenue of 11% or $118 million. Increased selling prices had a positive impact
on sales revenue of $52 million, more than offset by decreased sales volumes
for existing businesses. PET polymers were the primary reason for the change in
selling prices and sales volumes. Foreign currency exchange rates had a
negative impact of $36 million on sales revenue.

The slight increase in sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region was due to
higher sales volumes, mainly for PET polymers, which had a positive impact on
sales revenue of $38 million. This increase was partially offset by lower
selling prices and foreign currency exchange rates, which had a negative impact
on sales revenue of $20 million and $9 million, respectively.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In Latin America, sales revenue increased primarily due to increased sales
volumes, mainly for PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue
of $31 million. Higher selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of
$10 million, offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates.

With a substantial portion of sales to customers
outside the United States of America,
Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international
markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to
negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In addition, where it deems such
actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions
and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its
assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is
appropriate. See Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
Part II—Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL DATA

(Dollars in millions)




Net cash provided by (used in)

Operating activities

$


$


$


Investing activities

(467

)

(523

)

(465

)

Financing activities

(323

)


(466

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

$


$

(35

)

$

(85

)

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$


$


$


Cash Flows

Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 increased $404 million primarily
due to the impact of changes in working capital; a change in liabilities for
employee benefits and incentive compensation; and receipt of a federal income
tax refund of approximately $40 million.

Changes in working capital increased operating cash flows by approximately $66
million in 2002 and decreased operating cash flows by approximately $46 million
in 2001. Working capital decreased during 2002 as significant increases in
trade accounts payable were partially offset by increases in inventory. In
2001, working capital increased as a result of a significant decrease in trade
accounts payable and an increase in inventories, partially offset by a decrease
in receivables. Changes in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive
compensation increased operating cash flows $81 million in 2002 and decreased
cash flows $8 million in 2001. Payments required under the Eastman Performance
Plan and the Unit Performance Plan during 2002 were significantly lower than
similar payments in 2001 due to the performance under these plans for 2001 and
2000.

In 2000, cash flows from operations were positively impacted by settlement of
strategic foreign currency hedging transactions, partially offset by an
increase in working capital. Cash provided by operating activities in 2000 also
reflected $50 million provided by a continuous sale of accounts receivable
program.

Cash used in investing activities reflected increased expenditures for capital
additions in 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to the $161 million related
to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an
operating lease, while expenditures for acquisitions decreased in 2002 compared
with 2001. In 2002, cash paid for Ariel Research Corporation was approximately
$6 million; in 2001, cash paid for the Hercules Businesses was approximately
$252 million; in 2000, cash paid for McWhorter was approximately $200 million
and for Sokolov was approximately $46 million. Cash used in investing
activities in 2002, 2001 and 2000 additionally reflects other small
acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities in 2000 reflected higher
proceeds from sales of assets.

Cash used in financing activities in 2002 reflected a significant decrease in
commercial paper and short-term borrowings attributable to the use of proceeds
from long-term debt issued during 2002 and the use of cash generated from
operations to repay indebtedness. Cash provided by financing activities in 2001
included the effect of treasury stock purchases resulting from a
reverse/forward stock split of the Company’s common stock approved by the
stockholders in 2001. In 2000, cash used in financing activities reflected a
repayment of borrowings associated with acquisitions and the effect of treasury
stock purchases. The payment of dividends is also reflected in all periods.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company expects to continue to pay the quarterly cash dividend. Priorities
for use of available cash from operations will be to
pay the dividend, reduce outstanding
borrowings, fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and
other ventures, and repurchase shares.

Liquidity

Eastman has access to a $600 million revolving credit facility (the “Credit
Facility”) expiring in July 2005. The Credit Facility was reduced from $800
million to $600 million in the second quarter 2002 following the issuance of
$400 million in fixed rate debt described below. Any borrowings under the
Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market
rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the
total commitment that vary based on Eastman’s credit rating. The rate for such
fees was 0.15% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. The Credit Facility contains a
number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain
financial ratios.

Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper, generally with maturities of 90
days or less, to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides
liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate
purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce
borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility
expires in July 2005, the commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit
Facility are classified as long-term borrowings because the Company has the
ability to refinance such borrowings on a long-term basis. At December 31,
2002, the Company’s commercial paper borrowings were $143 million at an
effective interest rate of 1.66%. At December 31, 2001, the Company’s
outstanding Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings were $637 million
at an effective interest rate of 3.17%.

The Company has an effective registration statement on file with the Securities
and Exchange Commission to issue up to $1 billion of debt or equity securities.
On April 3, 2002, Eastman issued notes in the principal amount of $400 million
due 2012 and bearing interest at 7% per annum. Net proceeds from the sale of
the notes were $394 million and were used to repay portions of outstanding
borrowings under the Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings.

In the first quarter 2002, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that
converted the effective interest rates of the notes due in January 2004 to
variable rates. These original interest rate swaps were settled during the
fourth quarter 2002 resulting in $13 million cash proceeds being received by the
Company which were included in cash flows from 2002 operations in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The gain resulting from the settlement
of the swaps is reflected as an increase in long-term debt and will be
amortized into earnings as a reduction of interest expense through the maturity
of the notes in January 2004. In conjunction with the settlement of the
original interest rate swaps, new interest rate swaps were entered into in the
fourth quarter 2002, converting the effective interest rates on the notes due
in 2004 to variable rates that averaged 4.07% at December 31, 2002. The
recording of the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding
debt resulted in increases of $3 million in other noncurrent assets and
long-term borrowings at December 31, 2002.

The Company expects to contribute approximately $220 million to its U.S.
defined benefit pension plans during 2003 and that additional funding will be
required in 2004, although the amount of such contribution is dependent upon
interest rates, actual return on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of
employees, and other factors.

Cash flows from operations and the sources of capital described above are
expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow
requirements. However, the Company’s cash flows from operations can be affected
by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw
materials availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastman’s products,
capacity utilization and other factors described under “Forward-Looking
Statements and Risk Factors” below.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures were $427 million, $234 million and $226 million for 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2002 include $161
million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously
utilized under an operating lease. The Company continues its emphasis on cash
flow management and, for 2003, expects that capital spending and other directed
investments for small acquisitions and other ventures will be no more than
depreciation and amortization. Long-term commitments related to planned capital
expenditures are not material.

Other Commitments

At December 31, 2002, the Company’s obligations related to long-term notes and
debentures totaled $1.9 billion to be paid over a period of 25 years. Other
borrowings, related primarily to commercial paper borrowings, totaled
approximately $154 million.

The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2002 totaling
approximately $1.3 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for
materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business.
The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under
cancelable, noncancelable and month-to-month operating leases totaling
approximately $257 million over a period of several years. Of the total lease
commitments, approximately 40% relate to machinery and equipment, including
computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately
34% relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities and
land; and approximately 26% relate to railcars. The obligations described above
are summarized in the following table:

(Dollars in millions)

Payments Due By Period

Total


2004-07

2008-12

Beyond 2012

Long-term notes and debentures

$

1,903

$

—

$


$


$


Commercial paper and other borrowings




—

—

Purchase obligations

1,288





Operating leases






$

3,602

$


$

1,316

$


$

1,180

If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a
portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in
disposing of the related assets. The Company believes, based on current facts
and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees in
excess of the payments included above is remote. Under these operating leases,
the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2002 totaled $52 million.

The Company maintains defined benefit plans that provide eligible employees
with retirement benefits. Benefits are paid to employees from trust funds. The
Company contributes to the plans as permitted by laws and regulations. No
contribution to the plans was made or required in 2002 and the Company
anticipates funding approximately $220 million in 2003. As disclosed in Note 9
to the Company’s consolidated financial statements, during 2002 the Company’s
additional minimum pension liability increased from $187 million to $417
million. While this amount does not correspond directly to cash funding
requirements, it is an indication the Company will be required to contribute
cash to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such contributions
is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and
attrition rates of employees, and other factors. Such factors can significantly
impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company.

The Company has long-term commitments relating to joint ventures as described
in Note 5 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company
guarantees up to $137 million of the principal amount of the joint ventures’
third-party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and circumstances
and the structure of the ventures, that the likelihood of a payment pursuant to
such guarantees is remote.

As described in Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements,
Eastman entered into an agreement in 1999 that allows it to sell undivided
interests in certain domestic trade accounts receivable under a
planned continuous sale program to a third party. Under this agreement, receivables
sold to the third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.
Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were sold to the purchaser
with recourse limited to the purchased interest in the receivable pools.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company also had outstanding guarantees at
December 31, 2002. Additional information related to these
guarantees is included in Note 10 to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated
entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as special purpose
entities, for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements with
contractually narrow or limited purposes. Thus, Eastman is not materially
exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the
above or any other such relationships.

Treasury Stock Transactions

The Company is currently authorized to repurchase up to $400 million of its
common stock. No shares of Eastman common stock were repurchased by the
Company during 2002. During 2001, 77,069 shares of common stock at a total
cost of approximately $4 million, or an average price of $53 per share, were
repurchased. A total of 2,746,869 shares of common stock at a cost of
approximately $112 million, or an average price of approximately $41 per share,
has been repurchased under the authorization. Repurchased shares may be used to
meet common stock requirements for compensation and benefit plans and other
corporate purposes. In the first quarter 2002, the Company issued 126,614
previously repurchased shares as the annual Company contribution to the Eastman
Investment and Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

Dividends

The Company declared cash dividends of $0.44 per share in the fourth quarters
2002, 2001 and 2000 and a total of $1.76 per share in 2002, 2001 and 2000.

ENVIRONMENTAL

Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous
wastes, the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are
regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of
various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has
been designated a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and
several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be
required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure/postclosure
under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate reserves for
environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastman’s
policies as described in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal
defenses, and the Company’s preliminary assessment of actions that may be
required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company’s
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company
has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount
accrued reflects the Company’s assumptions about remedial requirements at the
contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with
regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party
sites, and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. Changes in the
estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement
action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control
regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.

When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be
estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. Estimated
future environmental contingencies ranged from the minimum or best estimate of
$97 million to the maximum of $111 million at December 31, 2002. At December
31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had recognized environmental contingencies of
approximately $60 million and $54 million, respectively, representing the
minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure,
costs accrued to date over the facilities’ estimated useful lives.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company’s cash expenditures related to environmental protection and
improvement were approximately $195 million, $216 million and $195 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These amounts pertain primarily to operating
costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but
also include expenditures for construction and development. The Company does
not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements
of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially
increase the Company’s planned level of capital expenditures for environmental
control facilities.

INFLATION

In recent years, inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastman’s
costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although
derivative financial instruments may be utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate
short-term market price fluctuations.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS
No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which addresses
financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement
of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction,
development and/or normal use of the asset.

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143 on
January 1, 2003. Upon initial application of the provisions of SFAS No. 143,
entities are required to recognize a liability for any existing asset
retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of
adoption of this Statement, an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase
to the carrying amount of the associated long-lived asset, and accumulated
depreciation on that capitalized cost. The effect, if any, of initially
applying this Statement will be reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings (Loss) as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
The Company is evaluating the effect this Statement will have on its
future financial
statements.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, “Rescission of FASB Statements No.
4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections.”
This Statement, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting
pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting
for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to
sale-leaseback transactions. The provisions of this Statement are generally
effective for the Company’s 2003 fiscal year, or in the case of specific
provisions, for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002 or for financial
statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. The provisions of this Statement
have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities.” This Statement addresses financial
accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities
and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 94-3, “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit
an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).” This
Statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, and concludes
that an entity’s commitment to an exit plan does not by itself create a present
obligation that meets the definition of a liability. This Statement also
establishes that fair value is the objective of initial measurement of the
liability. The provisions of this Statement are effective for exit or disposal
activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application
encouraged. The Company adopted SFAS No. 146 on January 1, 2003. If adopted
early, this Statement would not have had a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00-21, “Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides
guidance on how to account for arrangements that involve the delivery or
performance of multiple products, services and/or rights to use assets. The
provisions of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will apply to revenue arrangements entered
into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will have on
its results of operations and financial condition.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”),
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB
Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34.” FIN
45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,”
relating to the guarantor’s accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of
certain types of guarantees. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective
for the current fiscal year, and the Company has included this information in
Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, the
provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a
prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31,
2002, irrespective of a guarantor’s year-end. The Company has not assessed what
impact, if any, the adoption of the initial recognition and measurement
provisions of FIN 45 will have upon its financial condition or results of
operations.

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation – Transition and Disclosure, amendment of FASB Statement No. 123.”
This Statement provides additional transition guidance for those entities that
elect to voluntarily adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation.” Furthermore, SFAS No. 148 mandates new disclosures
in both interim and year-end financial statements within Note 1,
“Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. The Company has elected not to adopt
the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148.
However, the Company has adopted the disclosure provisions for the current
fiscal year and has included this information in Note 1 to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”),
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” FIN 46 clarifies the application
of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to
certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the
entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest
entities (“VIE’s”) created after January 31,
2003, and to VIE’s in
which an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies in the
first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15,
2003, to VIE’s in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
acquired before February 1, 2003. FIN 46 applies to public enterprises as of
the beginning of the applicable interim or annual period. See
Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements
for disclosures regarding the Company’s VIE’s. The adoption
of FIN 46 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results
of operations.

OUTLOOK

For 2003, the Company expects:



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company is continuing to work towards achieving
earnings in 2003 that are sufficient to return the cost of capital,
which would result in earnings of approximately $2.70 to $2.85
per share; however, there are a number of factors that are negatively
impacting earnings that make accomplishing this goal difficult,
including:

•

higher than previously
anticipated raw material costs, which in several instances have risen
to unprecedented levels;

•

a lack of pricing power for
some of the Company’s products; and

•

a sluggish global economy,
particularly for manufacturing.

In order to offset these and other challenging
factors in 2003, the Company is: utilizing its marketing capabilities
to recover raw material cost increases and improve margins wherever
possible; implementing various organizational changes and cost
control measures; and using all lines of the income statement to
improve profitability. See “Forward-Looking Statements and Risk
Factors.”

Longer term, the Company expects:

•

Global demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of
approximately 10% annually over the next several years;

•

Peaks and troughs in the Polymers segment created by supply
and demand imbalances to be less pronounced in the future; capacity
utilization in the Polymers segment to be lower in 2003 than in 2002
based on industry projections worldwide; and capacity utilization to
vary by region; and

•

Aggressive management of costs in the PCI segment will help improve
margins and position it to take full advantage of the upturn
expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe. The Company is also
aggressively identifying and implementing Six Sigma projects to reduce
costs and improve performance. See “Forward-Looking
Statements and Risk Factors.”



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS

The expectations under “Outlook” and certain other statements in this Annual
Report may be forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements and other written and oral
forward-looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to,
among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and
utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and
amortization; environmental matters; legal proceedings; exposure to, and
effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs and foreign currencies;
global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition;
growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and
sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other expected financial conditions;
expectations, strategies, and plans for individual products, businesses,
segments and divisions as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical Company;
cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans; pension expenses
and funding; future expenses and insurance settlement associated with
operational disruptions; credit rating; cost reduction and control efforts and
targets; integration of acquired businesses; development, production,
commercialization, and acceptance of new products, services and technologies
and related costs; and asset and product portfolio changes.

These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions,
including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in
turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions
and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other
factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are
necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future
conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from
expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the
underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is
unrealized. In addition to the factors described in this report, the following
are some of the important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results
to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements:

•

The Company has manufacturing and marketing operations throughout the
world, with approximately 45% of the Company’s revenues attributable
to sales outside the United States. Economic factors, including
foreign currency exchange rates, could affect the Company’s revenues,
expenses and results. Although the Company utilizes risk management
tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market
fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard
to risk management tools can also affect revenues, expenses and
results and there can be no assurance that such measures will result
in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be
eliminated. In addition, changes in laws, regulations, or other
political factors in any of the countries in which the Company
operates could affect business in that country or region, as well as
the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

•

The Company has made and may continue to make acquisitions,
divestitures and investments, and enter into alliances, as part of its
growth strategy. The completion of such transactions are subject to
the timely receipt of necessary regulatory and other consents and
approvals needed to complete the transactions which could be delayed
for a variety of reasons, including the satisfactory negotiation of
the transaction documents and the fulfillment of all closing
conditions to the transactions. Additionally, after completion of the
transactions, there can be no assurance that such transactions will be
successfully integrated on a timely and cost-efficient basis or that
they will achieve projected operating earnings targets.

•

The Company has made strategic technology investments, including
formation of joint ventures and investments in other technology
businesses, in order to build certain Eastman capabilities. There can
be no assurance that such investments will achieve their objectives or
that they will be beneficial to the Company’s results of operations.

•

The Company owns assets in the form of equity in other companies,
including joint ventures, technology investments and Genencor. Such
investments are minority investments in companies which are not
managed or controlled by the Company and are subject to all of the
risks associated with changes in value of such investments including
the market valuation of those companies whose shares are publicly
traded.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

•

The Company’s operations from time to time are parties to or targets
of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including
product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual
property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and
safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the
ordinary course of business. The Company believes amounts reserved are
adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations
could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company.

The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors nor
necessarily present them in order of importance. This disclosure, including
that under “Outlook” and “Forward-Looking Statements
and Risk Factors,” and other
forward-looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this
filing and elsewhere from time to time, represent management’s best judgment as
of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake
responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors
are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such
as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press
releases) on related subjects.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal
course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well
as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding of foreign operations.
To mitigate the Company’s exposure to these market risks, Eastman has
established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its
management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to
manage its exposure to such risks.

The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of
its borrowing activities, which include short-term commercial paper and
long-term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business
operations and capital requirements. Currently, these borrowings are
predominately U.S. dollar denominated. The nature and amount of the Company’s
long-term and short-term debt may vary as a result of future business
requirements, market conditions, and other factors.

The Company’s operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are
exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually
evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and
the locations in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the
effect of foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange
contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies
and currency options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export
sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than two years and
denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts
offset changes in the value of related exposures. It is the Company’s policy to
enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent considered
necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter
into foreign currency transactions for speculative purposes.

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its
major raw materials. To mitigate short-term fluctuations in market prices for
certain commodities, principally propane, ethane, and natural gas, the Company
enters into forwards and options contracts.

The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which
measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected
hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and/or
commodity prices. For 2002 and 2001, the market risk associated
with the fair value of interest-rate-sensitive instruments, assuming an
instantaneous parallel shift in interest rates of 10% are
approximately
$100 million and $81 million, respectively, and an additional
$10 million for each
one percentage point change in interest rates thereafter. This exposure is
primarily related to long-term debt with fixed interest rates. The market risk
associated with foreign currency-sensitive instruments utilizing a modified
Black-Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar
relative to each foreign currency hedged by the Company is
approximately
$4 million and $2 million and an additional $0.4 million and $0.1 million for
2002 and 2001, respectively, for an additional one percentage point adverse
change in foreign currency exchange rates. Further adverse movements in foreign
currencies would create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be
linear to that disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to
foreign currency options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in
foreign currencies, is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable
by the Company for the related financial instruments. In 2002, the
market risk associated with foreign currency options utilizing a
modified Black-Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse change
in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency results in a
$2 million loss in fair value. Furthermore, since the
Company utilizes currency-sensitive derivative instruments for hedging
anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those
instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying
anticipated transactions. The market risk associated with feedstock options and
natural gas swaps assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying
commodity price of 10% is approximately
$2 million and an
additional $0.1 million and $0.2 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, for
each one percentage point move in closing prices thereafter.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Item

Page

Management’s
Responsibility for Financial Statements


Report
of Independent Accountants


Consolidated
Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), and
Retained Earnings


Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position


Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows


Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements

73-111

Financial
Statement Schedules:

II — Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the accompanying
consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical Company and subsidiaries
appearing on pages 70 through 111. Eastman has prepared these consolidated
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, and the statements of necessity
include some amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and
judgments.

Eastman’s accounting systems include extensive internal controls designed to
provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of its financial records and
the proper safeguarding and use of its assets. Such controls are based on
established policies and procedures, are implemented by trained, skilled
personnel with an appropriate segregation of duties, and are monitored through
a comprehensive internal audit program. The Company’s policies and procedures
prescribe that the Company and all employees are to maintain the highest
ethical standards and that its business practices throughout the world are to
be conducted in a manner that is above reproach.

The consolidated financial statements have been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, who were responsible for
conducting their audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Their report is included herein.

The Board of Directors exercises its responsibility for these financial
statements through its Audit Committee, which consists entirely of
nonmanagement Board members. The independent accountants and internal auditors
have full and free access to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee meets
periodically with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Eastman’s director of internal
auditing, both privately and with management present, to discuss accounting,
auditing, policies and procedures, internal controls, and financial reporting
matters.

/s/ J. Brian Ferguson

/s/ James P. Rogers

J. Brian Ferguson

Chairman of the Board and
Chief

Executive Officer

James P. Rogers

Senior Vice President and
Chief

Financial Officer

February 21, 2003



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Eastman Chemical Company

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements listed in
the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) on page 116 present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Eastman Chemical Company and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) on
page 115 presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read
in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of
the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

As discussed in Notes 1, 4, and 8 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1,
2002 Eastman Chemical Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, and on January 1,
2001, adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, as amended by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 138, “Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities.”

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 21, 2003



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS),

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) and RETAINED EARNINGS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company applies intrinsic value accounting for its stock option plans. If
the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based upon the fair
value at the grant dates for awards under these plans, the Company’s net
earnings (loss) and earnings (loss) per share would have been reduced as
follows:

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)




Net earnings (loss), as reported

$


$

(175

)

$


Deduct:
Total additional stock-based employee compensation
cost, net of tax, that would have been included in
net earnings (loss) under fair value method

(11

)

(8

)

(9

)

Pro forma net earnings (loss)

$


$

(183

)

$


Basic earnings (loss) per share

As reported

0.79

(2.28

)

3.95

Pro forma

0.65

(2.38

)

3.83

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

As reported

0.79

(2.28

)

3.94

Pro forma

0.65

(2.38

)

3.82

Stock-based employee
compensation cost, net of tax,
included in net earnings (loss)

$

—

$

—

$




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2.

INVENTORIES

December 31

(Dollars in millions)



At FIFO or average cost (approximates current cost)

Finished goods

$


$


Work in process



Raw materials and supplies



Total inventories



Reduction to LIFO value

(273

)

(288

)

Total inventories at LIFO value

$


$


Inventories valued on the LIFO method were approximately 70% of total
inventories in each of the periods.

3.

PROPERTIES AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

Construction-period interest of $344 million and $345 million, reduced by
accumulated depreciation of $207 million and $198 million, is included in cost
of properties at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Interest
capitalized during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $4 million, $5 million, and $6
million, respectively.

Depreciation expense was $358 million, $385 million and $382 million, for 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” effective January 1, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 142
prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets;
require that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested at least
annually for impairment; require reporting units to be identified for the
purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill; and remove the
forty-year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have
finite lives.

In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the
first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was
determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI
segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows,
was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an
after-tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter
2002 to reflect lower than previously expected cash flows from certain related
products. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as
the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the
Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled
workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million
to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the
transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this
Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January
1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and
determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company
plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless
events warrant more frequent testing.

Following are the Company’s amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived
intangible assets. The difference between the gross carrying amount and net
carrying amount for each item presented is attributable to accumulated
amortization.

As a result of the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company will
no longer record approximately $20 million of annual amortization relating to
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, as adjusted for the
reclassifications just mentioned.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill follow:

Total

CASPI

Other

Eastman

(Dollars in millions)

Segment

Segments

Chemical

Reported balance at December 31, 2001

$


$


$


Intangible assets reclassified into goodwill
at January 1, 2002, net of deferred tax
liability


—


Purchase
accounting adjustments

(5

)

—

(5

)

Acquisitions

—



Reported goodwill balance at December 31, 2002

$


$


$


The following table presents prior year earnings and earnings per share as if
the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 had been applied in the prior
year.

(Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)




Reported net earnings (loss)

$


$

(175

)

$


Add back goodwill amortization



Add back assembled workforce and trademark amortization



Adjusted net earnings (loss)

$


$

(157

)

$


Basic earnings (loss) per share before cumulative
effect of change in accounting principle:

Reported basic earnings (loss) per share

$

1.02

$

(2.28

)

$

3.95

Add back goodwill amortization

.20

.18

Add back assembled workforce and trademark amortization

.03

.03

Adjusted net earnings (loss) per share

$

1.02

$

(2.05

)

$

4.16

Diluted earnings (loss) per share before cumulative
effect of change in accounting principle:

Reported diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

1.02

$

(2.28

)

$

3.94

Add back goodwill amortization

.20

.18

Add back assembled workforce and trademark amortization

.03

.03

Adjusted net earnings (loss) per share

$

1.02

$

(2.05

)

$

4.15

Amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets was approximately $12
million, $16 million, and $12 million, respectively, for 2002, 2001, and 2000.
If the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 had been applied in the prior
years, amortization expense would have been $14 million and $10 million for
2001 and 2000, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the five
succeeding years is approximately $15 million per year.

5.

EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Eastman owns 25 million shares, or approximately 42%, of the outstanding common
shares of Genencor International, Inc. (“Genencor”) a company engaged in the
discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of biotechnology products for
the industrial chemicals, agricultural and health care markets. This investment
is accounted for under the equity method and is included in other noncurrent
assets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company’s investment in Genencor,
including preferred stock and accumulated dividends receivable, was
$196
million and $217 million, respectively. At December 31, 2002, the fair market
value of the Company’s common stock in Genencor was $9.78 per share or $245
million.

Eastman has a 50% interest in and serves as the operating partner in Primester,
a joint venture engaged in the manufacture of cellulose esters at its
Kingsport, Tennessee plant, accounted for by the equity method. The
Company guarantees up to $125 million of the principal amount of the joint venture’s
third-party borrowings; however, management believes, based on current facts
and circumstances and the structure of the venture, that the likelihood of a
payment pursuant to such guarantee is remote. Eastman had a negative investment
in the joint venture of approximately $40 million at December 31, 2002 and
2001, representing the recognized portion of the venture’s accumulated deficits
that it has a commitment to fund as necessary. Such amounts are included in
other long-term liabilities. The Company provides certain utilities and general
plant services to the joint venture. In return for Eastman providing those
services, the joint venture paid Eastman a total of $39 million in three equal
installments in 1991, 1992 and 1993. Eastman is amortizing the deferred credit
to earnings over the 10-year period of the utilities and plant services
contract.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Eastman owns a 50% interest in Nanjing Yangzi Eastman Chemical Ltd. (“Nanjing”)
a company engaged in the manufacture of Eastotac™ hydrocarbon tackifying resins
for the adhesives market. This joint venture is accounted for under the equity
method and is included in other noncurrent assets. The Company guarantees up
to $12 million of the principal amount of the joint venture’s third-party
borrowings; however, management believes, based on current facts and
circumstances and the structure of the venture, that the likelihood of a
payment pursuant to such guarantee is remote. The Company’s investment in
Nanjing was approximately $7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

6.

PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

December 31

(Dollars in millions)



Trade creditors

$


$


Accrued payrolls, vacation, and variable-incentive compensation



Accrued taxes



Interest payable



Current portion of U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities


—

Bank overdrafts



Other



Total

$

1,221

$


The current portion of U.S. defined benefit pension plan liabilities is an
estimate of the Company’s anticipated funding through December 31, 2003.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7.

BORROWINGS

Eastman has access to a $600 million revolving credit facility (the “Credit
Facility”) expiring in July 2005. The Credit Facility was reduced from $800
million to $600 million in the second quarter 2002 following the issuance of
$400 million in fixed rate debt described below. Any borrowings under the
Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market
rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the
total commitment that vary based on Eastman’s credit rating. The rate for such
fees was 0.15% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. The Credit Facility contains a
number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain
financial ratios.

Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper, generally with maturities of 90
days or less, to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides
liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate
purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce
borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility
expires in July 2005, the commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit
Facility are classified as long-term borrowings because the Company has the
ability to refinance such borrowings on a long-term basis. At December 31,
2002, the Company’s commercial paper borrowings were $143 million at an
effective interest rate of 1.66%. At December 31, 2001, the Company’s
outstanding Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings were $637 million
at an effective interest rate of 3.17%.

On April 3, 2002, the Company issued notes in the principal amount of $400
million due 2012 and bearing interest at 7% per annum. Proceeds from the sale
of the notes, net of $3 million in transaction fees, were $394 million and were
used to repay portions of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility and
commercial paper borrowings.

In the first quarter 2002, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that
converted the effective interest rates of the notes due in 2004 to variable
rates. These original interest rate swaps were settled during the fourth
quarter 2002, resulting in $13 million cash proceeds being received by the Company
which were included in cash flows from operations in the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows. The gain resulting from the settlement of the swaps
is reflected as an increase in long-term debt and will be amortized into
earnings as a reduction to interest expense through the maturity of the notes
in January 2004. In conjunction with the settlement of the original interest
rate swaps, new interest rate swaps were entered into in the fourth quarter
2002, converting the effective interest rates on the notes due in 2004 to
variable rates that averaged 4.07% at December 31, 2002. The recording of the
fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding debt resulted in
increases of $3 million in other noncurrent assets and long-term borrowings at
December 31, 2002.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

December 31, 2002

December 31, 2001

Recorded

Recorded

(Dollars in millions)

Amount

Fair Value

Amount

Fair Value

Long-term borrowings

$

2,054

$

2,220

$

2,143

$

2,168

The fair value for fixed-rate borrowings is based on current interest rates for
comparable securities. The Company’s floating-rate borrowings approximate fair
value.

Derivative Financial Instruments Held or Issued for Purposes Other Than Trading

Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS
No. 138, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” which
requires that all derivative instruments be reported on the balance sheet at
fair value and establishes criteria for designation and effectiveness of
hedging relationships. Instruments with a fair market value of $33 million,
previously not required to be recorded and primarily pertaining to the
Company’s raw materials and energy cost hedging program, were recognized as
miscellaneous receivables in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
on January 1, 2001. Previously deferred gains of $68 million from the
settlement of currency options were reclassified from other current
liabilities. Accordingly, the following amounts were recorded as of January 1,
2001:

(Dollars in millions)

Deferred gains reclassified

$


Instruments not previously reported



Less: provision for income taxes


$


The above amount resulted in an after-tax credit of $58 million to accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders’ equity, and an
after-tax gain of $4 million included in net earnings as of January 1, 2001.

At December 31, 2002, the remaining mark-to-market gains from currency,
commodity and certain interest rate hedges that were included in accumulated
other comprehensive loss totaled approximately $1 million. If realized,
substantially all of this balance will be reclassified into earnings during the
next 12 months. The mark-to-market gains or losses on non-qualifying, excluded
and ineffective portions of hedges are recognized in cost of sales or other
income and charges immediately. Such amounts did not have a material impact on
earnings during 2002.

The Company is exposed to market risk, such as changes in currency exchange
rates, raw material and energy costs and interest rates. The Company uses
various derivative financial instruments pursuant to the Company’s hedging
policies to mitigate these market risk factors and their effect on the cash
flows of the underlying transactions. Designation is performed on a specific
exposure basis to support hedge accounting. The changes in fair value of these
hedging instruments are offset in part or in whole by corresponding changes in
the cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. The Company does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Financial instruments held as part of the hedging programs discussed below are
recorded at fair value based upon comparable market transactions as quoted by
the broker.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Pension coverage for employees of Eastman’s international operations is

provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The Company
systematically provides for obligations under such plans by depositing funds
with trustees, under insurance policies or by book reserves.

A summary balance sheet of the change in plan assets during 2002 and 2001, the
funded status of the plans, amount recognized in the Statements of Financial
Position, and the assumptions used to develop the projected benefit obligation
for the Company’s significant defined benefit pension plans are provided in the following
tables:

Summary Balance Sheet



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of the components of net periodic benefit cost recognized for
Eastman’s significant defined benefit pension plans follows:

Summary of Benefit Costs

(Dollars in millions)




Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on assets

(77

)

(72

)

(64

)

Amortization of:

Transition asset

(4

)

(4

)

(4

)

Prior service credit

(12

)

(12

)

(12

)

Actuarial loss




Net periodic benefit cost

$


$


$


Weighted-average assumptions as of end of year:

Discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.75

%

Expected return on assets

9.00

%

9.50

%

9.50

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.00

%

4.00

%

4.25

%



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summary Balance Sheet



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The net periodic postretirement benefit cost follows:

Summary of Benefit Costs

(Dollars in
millions)




Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on assets

(2

)

(2

)

(3

)

Amortization of:

Prior service cost

(3

)

(3

)

(3

)

Actuarial loss




Net periodic benefit cost

$


$


$


Weighted-average assumptions as of end of year:

Discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.75

%

Expected return on assets

9.00

%

9.50

%

9.50

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.00

%

4.00

%

4.25

%

Health care cost trend

Initial

10.00

%

10.00

%

7.00

%

Decreasing to ultimate trend of

5.25

%

5.00

%

5.00

%

In year




A 1% increase in health care cost trend would increase the 2002 service and
interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $40 million. A
1% decrease in health care cost trend would decrease the 2002 service and
interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $34 million.

10.

COMMITMENTS

Purchase
Obligations and Lease Commitments

At December 31, 2002, the Company had various
    purchase obligations totaling approximately $1.3 billion over a
    period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and
    energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business.
    Approximately $151 million of these obligations will be paid in
    2003.

The Company also had various lease commitments
    for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable and
    month-to-month operating leases totaling approximately $257
    million over a period of several years. Of the total lease
    commitments, approximately 40% relates to machinery and
    equipment, including computer and communications equipment and
    production equipment; approximately 34% relates to real
    property, including office space, storage facilities and land;
    and approximately 26% relates to railcars. Future lease
    payments, reduced by sublease income, follow:

Rental expense, net of sublease income, was
    approximately $80 million in 2002, and $83 million in 2001 and
    2000.

Accounts
Receivable Securitization Program

In 1999, the Company entered into an agreement
    that allows the Company to sell certain domestic accounts
    receivable under a planned continuous sale program to a third
    party. The agreement permits the sale of undivided interests in
    domestic trade accounts receivable. Receivables sold to the
    third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2002 and
    2001. Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were
    sold to the purchaser with recourse limited to the purchased
    interest in the receivable pools. Fees paid by the Company under
    this agreement are based on certain variable market rate indices
    and totaled approximately $4 million, $9 million, and $12
    million



in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Average monthly
    proceeds from collections reinvested in the continuous sale
    program were approximately $250 million, $239 million, and $235
    million in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The portion that
    continues to be recognized in the Statements of Financial
    Position is domestic trade receivables of $93 million and $124
    million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Guarantees

In November 2002, the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation
    No. 45 (“FIN 45”), “Guarantor’s Accounting
    and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
    Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.” The Company has
    adopted the disclosure requirements of the Interpretation as of
    December 31, 2002. Disclosures about each group of similar
    guarantees are provided below and summarized in the following
    table:

Obligations
of Equity Affiliates

Eastman has long-term commitments relating to
    joint ventures as described in Note 5 to the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements. The Company guarantees up to
    $137 million of the principal amount of the joint ventures’
    third-party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and
    circumstances and the structure of the ventures, that the
    likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.

Residual
Value Guarantees

If certain operating leases are terminated by the
    Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if
    any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets.
    Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at
    December 31, 2002 totaled approximately $52 million. The
    Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that
    a material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.

Other
Guarantees

Guarantees and claims arise during the ordinary
    course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers
    and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an
    obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specified
    triggering events occur. Non-performance under a contract could
    trigger an obligation of the Company. These potential claims include
    actions based upon alleged exposures to products, intellectual
    property and environmental matters, and other indemnifications.
    The ultimate effect on future financial results is not subject
    to reasonable estimation because considerable uncertainty exists
    as to the final outcome of these claims. However, while the
    ultimate liabilities resulting from such claims may be
    significant to results of operations in the period recognized,
    management does not anticipate they will have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or
    liquidity.

Product
Warranty Liability

The Company warrants to the original purchaser of
    its products that it will repair or replace without charge
    products if they fail due to a manufacturing defect. However,
    the Company’s historical claims experience has not been
    material. The estimated product warranty liability for the Company’s products as of December 31,
    2002 is less than $1 million. The Company accrues for product
    warranties when it is probable that customers will make claims
    under warranties relating to products that have been sold and a
    reasonable estimate of the costs can be made.

Variable
Interest Entities

The Company currently has relationships with three
    potential variable interest entities (“VIE’s”).
    The assets and liabilities of these entities are not
    consolidated within the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements. Two potential VIE’s are related to the equity
    affiliates discussed above and in Note 5 to the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements. The other potential
    VIE is related to a synthetic lease for certain operating assets
    discussed above. In January 2003 the FASB issued FASB
    Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”),
    “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” The
    Company is in the process of reviewing the provisions of FIN 46.
    In response to the guidance provided by FIN 46, if necessary, the Company has
    several options including: consolidating the VIE’s into the
    Company’s financial statements; purchasing selected assets
    from the VIE’s; or modifying or replacing the financing
    sources currently being utilized. None of these options are
    expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
    consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of
    operations.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes,
the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of
which are regulated by
various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of various
hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been
designated a potentially responsible party (“PRP”), by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several
liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to
incur costs for environmental remediation and closure/postclosure under the
federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate reserves for
environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastman’s
policies described in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal
defenses, and the Company’s preliminary assessment of actions that may be
required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company’s
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s reserve for environmental contingencies was $60
million and $54 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs
and, for closure/postclosure, costs accrued to date over the facilities’
estimated useful lives.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

claims are in
Mississippi, with smaller numbers in Texas and Illinois. In the recently filed
cases in Mississippi, plaintiffs allege exposure to asbestos-containing
products allegedly made by Eastman. Based on its investigation to date, the
Company has information that it manufactured limited amounts of an
asbestos-containing plastic product between the mid-1960’s and the early
1970’s. The Company’s investigation has found no evidence that any of the
Mississippi plaintiffs worked with or around any such product alleged to have
been manufactured by the Company. The Company intends to defend vigorously all
of these actions or to settle them on acceptable terms.

The Company continues to evaluate the allegations and claims made in recent
asbestos-related lawsuits and its insurance coverages. Based on such
evaluation to date, the Company continues to believe that the ultimate
resolution of asbestos cases will not have a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, although these
matters could result in the Company being subject to monetary
damages, costs or expenses and charges against earnings in particular
periods. To date, costs incurred by the
Company related to the recent asbestos-related lawsuits have not been
material, and in the case of the Mississippi claims have been
limited to legal fees and expenses.

13.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(1)

Includes shares held in treasury

The Company has authority to issue 400 million shares of all classes of stock,
of which 50 million may be preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 350
million may be common stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Company declared
dividends of $1.76 per share in 2002, 2001 and 2000.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Stock Option Balances and Activity

The fair value of each option is estimated on the grant date using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires input of highly subjective
assumptions. Some of these assumptions used for grants in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, include: average expected volatility of 27.57%, 27.07% and
26.98%; average expected dividend yield of 3.71%, 3.67% and 3.84%; and average
risk-free interest rates of 5.06%, 4.72% and 6.19%. An expected option term of
six years for all periods was developed based on historical experience
information. The expected term for reloads was considered as part of this
calculation and is equivalent to the remaining term of the original grant at
the time of reload.

Because the Company’s employee stock options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management’s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.

A summary of the status of the Company’s stock option plans is presented below:

*

Increased number of shares available for grant is the result of new plans
adopted during 2002 as discussed above.

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2002:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-

Weighted-

Number

Average

Weighted-

Number

Average

Range of Exercise

Outstanding at

Remaining

Average

Exercisable

Exercise

Prices

12/31/02

Contractual Life

Exercise Price

at 12/31/02

Price

$36-42

303,242

7.7

Years

$


285,542

$


$43-44

1,219,400

1.1


1,219,400


$45-49

4,845,513

8.0


2,329,749


$50-74

2,143,442

4.2


2,130,742


8,511,597

6.1

$


5,965,433




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Balance at

Provision/

Noncash

Cash

Balance at

(Dollars in millions)

January 1, 2000

Adjustments

Reductions

Reductions

December 31, 2000

Noncash charges

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Severance costs


—

—

(3

)

—

Site closure costs



—

(10

)


Total

$


$


$

—

$

(13

)

$


Balance at

Provision/

Noncash

Cash

Balance at

January 1, 2001

Adjustments

Reductions

Reductions

December 31, 2001

Noncash charges

$

—

$


$

(373

)

$

—

$

—

Severance costs

—


—

(6

)


Site closure costs



—

(7

)


Total

$


$


$

(373

)

$

(13

)

$


Balance at

Provision/

Noncash

Cash

Balance at

January 1, 2002

Adjustments

Reductions

Reductions

December 31, 2002

Noncash charges

$

—

$


$

(2

)

$

—

$

—

Severance costs



—

(10

)


Site closure costs



—

(9

)


Total

$


$


$

(2

)

$

(19

)

$


Substantially all expected severance and site closure costs will be applied to
the reserves within one year.

16.

OTHER NONRECURRING ITEMS

As described in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements,
Eastman identifies as nonrecurring items certain material charges or gains that
are not associated with on-going operations or that are caused by unique events
not reflective of the Company’s normal business activities in the period.
Accordingly, certain nonrecurring operating items as well as certain other
nonrecurring items are separately reported for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000.

(Dollars in millions)




Other Nonrecurring Operating Items

$

—

$


$


Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $50 million were recognized in
2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated
with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an
$18 million write-down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from
the economic crisis in Argentina; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a
$5 million write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to
the acquisition of the hydrocarbon resins and select portions of the
rosin-based resins business from Hercules Incorporated (“Hercules Businesses”).
Approximately $26 million of these items were reflected in the Polymers
segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment, $7 million in the PCI segment, $4
million in the SP segment, and $2 million in the Fibers segment.

Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $8 million were recorded in 2000.
Reflected in the CASPI segment was a $9 million charge for costs associated
with the write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to
the McWhorter acquisition, partially offset by a $1 million gain on the sale of
certain assets, reflected in the Polymers segment.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in millions)




Other
Nonrecurring Items

$

—

$


$




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

acquired, were being amortized on a straight-line basis over 11 to 40 years.
Acquired in-process research and development of approximately $9 million was
written off after completion of purchase accounting. Assuming this transaction
had been made at January 1, 2000, the consolidated pro forma results for 2000
would not be materially different from reported results.

Chemicke Zavody Sokolov

As of February 21, 2000, the Company acquired 76% of the shares of Chemicke
Zavody Sokolov (“Sokolov”), a manufacturer of waterborne polymer products,
acrylic acid and acrylic esters located in the Czech Republic. During the
second quarter 2000, the Company acquired an additional 21% of the shares
resulting in 97% ownership of Sokolov. These transactions, for cash
consideration totaling approximately $46 million (net of $3 million cash
acquired) and the assumption of $21 million of Sokolov debt, were financed with
available cash and commercial paper borrowings. Efforts will continue to
accumulate additional shares as they become available from the remaining
minority shareholders.

The acquisition of Sokolov was accounted for by the purchase method of
accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of Sokolov for the
period from February 21, 2000 are included in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been
recorded at their fair values. The minority interest, which is included in
other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position, is not significant. Assuming this transaction had been made at
January 1, 2000, the consolidated pro forma results for 2000 would not be
materially different from reported results.

(Dollars in millions)




Details of acquisitions are as follows:

Fair value of assets acquired

$


$


$


Liabilities assumed




Net cash paid for acquisitions




Cash acquired in acquisitions

—

—


Cash paid for acquisitions

$


$


$


18.

OTHER (INCOME) CHARGES, NET

(Dollars in millions)




Other income

$

(14

)

$

(11

)

$

(31

)

Other charges




Other (income) charges, net

$


$


$


Gain recognized on initial public offering of Genencor

$

—

$

—

$

(38

)

Other income for 2002 primarily reflected the Company’s portion of earnings
from its equity investments and a gain on foreign exchange transactions. The
Company’s portion of earnings from its equity investments was net of a charge of $5
million related to the previously announced restructuring of Genencor
in which the Company owns an approximate 42% equity interest. Other
income for 2001 primarily reflected the Company’s portion of earnings from
its equity investment in Genencor. Other income for 2000 primarily reflected gains on sales of
nonoperating assets and the Company’s portion of earnings from
its equity
investments.

Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write-down to fair value of
certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary
declines in value and fees on securitized receivables. Other charges for 2001
primarily reflected fees on securitized receivables.

In 2000, a nonrecurring gain of approximately $38 million resulted from the
initial public offering of common shares of Genencor.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19.

INCOME TAXES

Components of earnings (loss) before income taxes and the provision (benefit)
for U.S. and other income taxes follow:

The following represents
deferred tax charge (benefit) recorded as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity.

(Dollars in millions)




Minimum
pension liability

$


$


$

(2

)

Unrealized
losses on investments




Net
unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments

(1

)


—

Total

$


$


$

(1

)

Differences between the provision (benefit) for income taxes and income taxes
computed using the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate follow:

(Dollars in millions)




Amount computed using the statutory rate

$


$

(102

)

$


State income taxes, net


(6

)


Foreign rate variance


(6

)


Foreign sales corporation/extraterritorial income exclusion

(14

)

(4

)

(11

)

ESOP dividend payout

(2

)

(1

)

(2

)

Change in reserves for tax contingencies

(17

)

—

—

Other



(3

)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

$


$

(116

)

$




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities follow:

Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the United States, considered to be
reinvested indefinitely, totaled $402 million at December 31, 2002. It is not
practicable to determine the deferred tax liability for temporary differences
related to those unremitted earnings.

For certain consolidated
foreign subsidiaries, income and losses directly flow through to
taxable income in the United States. These entities are also subject
to taxation in the foreign tax jurisdictions. Net operating loss
carryforwards exist to offset future taxable income in foreign tax
jurisdictions and valuation allowances provided to reduce deferred
related tax assets if it is more likely than not that this benefit
will not be realized. Changes in the estimated realizable amount of
deferred tax assets associated with net operating losses for these
entities could result in changes in the deferred tax asset valuation
allowance in the foreign tax jurisdiction. At the same time, because
these entities are also subject to tax in the United States, a
deferred tax liability for the expected future taxable income will be
established concurrently. Therefore, the impact of any reversal of
valuation allowances on consolidated income tax expense will only be
to the extent that there are differences between the United States
statutory tax rate and the tax rate in the foreign jurisdiction.

At December 31, 2002, net operating loss carryforwards totaled $361 million.
Of this total, $114 million will expire in 3 to 15 years; $247 million will
never expire.

Amounts due to tax authorities are included in other current liabilities.
Amounts due from tax authorities are included in miscellaneous receivables. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, amounts included in current liabilities and
miscellaneous receivables were:

December 31,

(Dollars in millions)



Federal income tax receivable

$

(49

)

$

—

Taxes payable



Total income taxes payable (receivable)

$

(17

)

$




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

20.

ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

Cumulative

Unrealized Gains

Unrealized Gains

Accumulated Other

Translation

Unfunded Minimum

(Losses) on

(Losses) on

Comprehensive

(Dollars in millions)

Adjustment

Pension Liability

Investments

Cash Flow Hedges

Income (Loss)

Balance at December 31, 2000

$

(109

)

$

(10

)

$


$

—

$

(117

)

Period change

(24

)

(106

)

(2

)

(2

)

(134

)

Balance at December 31, 2001

(133

)

(116

)

—

(2

)

(251

)

Period change


(145

)

(2

)


(44

)

Balance at December 31, 2002

$

(31

)

$

(261

)

$

(2

)

$

(1

)

$

(295

)

Except for cumulative translation adjustment, amounts of other comprehensive
income (loss) are presented net of applicable taxes. Because cumulative
translation adjustment is considered a component of permanently invested
unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the United States, no taxes are
provided on such amounts.

21.

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

(Dollars in millions)




Cash paid for interest and income taxes is as follows:

Interest (net of amounts capitalized)

$


$


$


Income taxes paid (received)

(40

)

(7

)


Cash flows from operating activities include the Company’s portion of earnings
from its equity investments of $11 million, $6 million, and $15 million for 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively. Derivative financial instruments and related gains
and losses are included in cash flows from operating activities. The effect on
cash of foreign currency transactions and exchange rate changes for all years
presented was insignificant.

22.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company’s products and operations are managed and reported in five
operating segments. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company implemented a
divisional structure that separated the businesses into two divisions. Eastman
Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment and the SP segment.
Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The
divisional structure has allowed the Company to align costs more directly with
the activities and businesses that generate them. The divisional and segment
results for 2002, but not for prior periods, reflect this new cost structure.

With the implementation of the divisional structure, goods and services are
transferred between the two divisions at predetermined prices which may be in
excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the
recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such
interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. Prior to 2002, segment sales revenue
reflected only actual sales to third parties and the intersegment transfer of
goods and services, recorded at cost, had no impact on segment earnings.

All Eastman Chemical Company assets were allocated to the divisions as of
January 1, 2002. Corporate, general purpose and other nonoperating assets were
allocated to segments within each division based on process or product
responsibility. Certain infrastructure assets at each site, primarily utilities
that were previously allocated to all five segments, were allocated to the
primary division at that site. The primary division invoices the other division
for services provided by such infrastructure assets.

Effective January 1, 2002, sales and operating results for Cendian Corporation
(“Cendian”), the Company’s logistics subsidiary and an Eastman Division
initiative, are included in amounts for the CASPI, PCI and SP segments, and
have been allocated to these segments on the basis of sales revenues for each
of these segments. Prior to 2002, sales and operating results for Cendian were
allocated to all five segments.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Effective January 1, 2002, certain compounded polyethylene products were moved
from the Polymers segment to the SP segment. Accordingly, amounts for
2001 and 2000 have
been reclassified to reflect this change.

The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty
polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts,
adhesives and other markets. The CASPI segment’s products consist of binders
and resins, liquid vehicles, pigment concentrates and additives, unsaturated
polyester resins and polyester and acrylic emulsions. Binders and resins, such
as alkyd and polyester resins, hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters,
are used in adhesives as key components in paints and inks to form a protective
coating or film, and bind color to the substrate. Liquid vehicles, such as
ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for
ease of application. Pigment concentrates and additives, such as cellulosic
polymers, Texanol™ coalescing aid and chlorinated polyolefins, provide
different properties or performance enhancements to the end product.
Unsaturated polyester resins are used primarily in gel coats and fiberglass
reinforced plastics. Polyester and acrylic emulsions are traditionally used as
textile sizes to protect fibers during processing in textile manufacturing, and
the technology is also used in water-based paints, coatings and inks.
Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new
applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved.

The Company’s PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a
variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including
chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage
ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer
compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates.

The SP segment produces highly specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics
that possess unique performance properties for value-added end uses such as
appliances, in-store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronics
and electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics,
performance films, tape and labels, biodegradeables, cups and lids, fiber and
strapping, photographic and optical, graphic arts and general packaging. The
SP segment’s key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty
film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products.

The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage
and food packaging and other applications such as custom-care and cosmetics
packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and
industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety
of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care
items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave
oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low-density polyethylene and
linear low-density polyethylene, which are used primarily for packaging and
film applications and in extrusion coated containers such as milk and juice
cartons.

The Fibers segment manufactures Estron™ acetate tow and Estrobond™ triacetin
plasticizers for the cigarette filter market; Chromspun™
and Estron™ acetate yarns for use in apparel,
home furnishings and industrial fabrics; and acetate flake and acetyl raw
materials for other acetate fiber producers.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)

Operating earnings (loss) includes the impact of asset impairments and
restructuring charges and other nonrecurring operating items as described in
Notes 15 and 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location. No individual
foreign country is material with respect to revenues or long-lived assets.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

23.

QUARTERLY SALES AND EARNINGS DATA – UNAUDITED

(1)

Results for the first quarter 2002 included a $5 million charge
related to the previously announced restructuring of Genencor.

Results for the third quarter 2002 included a credit of $1 million related to a
change in estimate of restructuring reserves.

Results for the fourth quarter 2002 included a net charge of $6 million
related to restructuring and asset impairments.

For additional information on 2002 asset impairments and restructuring
charges and other nonrecurring operating items, see Notes 15 and 16 to
the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

(2)

Results for the second quarter 2001 included charges totaling $294
million related to restructuring and asset



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which addresses
financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement
costs. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement
of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction,
development and/or normal use of the asset.

The Company  adopted the provisions of SFAS
No. 143 on
January 1, 2003. Upon initial application of the provisions of SFAS No. 143,
entities are required to recognize a liability for any existing asset
retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of
adoption of this Statement, an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase
to the carrying amount of the associated long-lived asset, and accumulated
depreciation on that capitalized cost. The cumulative effect, if any, of
initially applying this Statement will be reported in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings (Loss) as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle. The Company is evaluating the effect this Statement will
have on the Company’s future financial statements.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, “Rescission of FASB Statements No.
4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections.”
This Statement, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting
pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting
for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to
sale-leaseback transactions. The provisions of this Statement are generally
effective for the Company’s 2003 fiscal year, or in the case of specific
provisions, for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002 or for financial
statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. The provisions of this Statement
have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities.” This Statement addresses financial
accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities
and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 94-3, “Liability Recognition
for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).” This Statement requires
that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be
recognized when the liability is incurred, and concludes that an entity’s
commitment to an exit plan does not by itself create a present obligation that
meets the definition of a liability. This Statement also establishes that fair
value is the objective of initial measurement of the liability. The provisions
of this Statement are effective for exit or disposal activities that
are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application
encouraged.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
Company has not yet assessed the impact of this Statement on its financial
statements.

In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00-21, “Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides
guidance on how to account for arrangements that involve the delivery or
performance of multiple products, services and/or rights to use assets. The
provisions of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will apply to revenue arrangements entered
into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will have on
its results of operations and financial condition.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”),
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB
Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34.” FIN
45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,”
relating to the guarantor’s accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of
certain types of guarantees. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective
for the current fiscal year and the Company has included this information in
Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, the
provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a
prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31,
2002, irrespective of a guarantor’s year-end. The Company has not assessed the
impact, if any, of the adoption of FIN 45.

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation – Transition and Disclosure, amendment of FASB Statement No. 123.”
This Statement provides additional transition guidance for those entities that
elect to voluntarily adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” Furthermore, SFAS No. 148 mandates new disclosures in
both interim and year-end financial statements within Note 1,
“Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. The Company has elected not to adopt the
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148. However,
the Company has adopted the disclosure provisions for the current fiscal year
and has included this information in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”),
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” FIN 46 clarifies the application
of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to
certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the
entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest
entities (“VIE’s”) created after January 31, 2003,
and to VIE’s in
which an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies in the
first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to VIE’s
in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
acquired before February 1, 2003. FIN 46 applies to public enterprises as of
the beginning of the applicable interim or annual period. See Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements for disclosures regarding the Company’s
VIE’s. The adoption of FIN 46 is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
position, liquidity, or results of operations.

25.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In the first quarter 2003, Eastman reached an
agreement to sell certain of its high-performance crystalline
plastics assets, including certain technology rights and other
intellectual property. Under terms of the agreement, Eastman will
continue to supply certain polymers used in the business. Other than
a potential gain to be recognized related to the sale transaction,
the sale of these assets should not have a significant impact on the
Company’s future results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The material under the heading “Proposals to be Voted Upon at the Annual
Meeting—Item 1—Election of Directors,” (except for the material under the
subheading “Board Committees—Audit Committee—Audit Committee Report”, which
is not incorporated by reference herein) and in Note (10) to the Summary
Compensation Table under the heading “Executive Compensation—Compensation
Tables”, in the to be filed definitive 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein in response to this Item. Certain information concerning
executive officers of the Company is set forth under the heading “Executive
Officers of the Company” in Part I of this Annual Report.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The material under the headings “Proposals to be Voted Upon at the Annual
Meeting—Item 1—Election of Directors—Director Compensation” in the to be
filed definitive 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein in
response to this Item. In addition, the material under the heading “Executive
Compensation” in the to be filed definitive 2003 Proxy Statement is
incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item, except for the
material under the subheadings “ — Compensation and Management Development
Committee Report on Executive Compensation” and “ — Performance Graph,” which
are not incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS

AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The material under the headings “Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers—Common Stock” and “Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” in
the to be filed definitive 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein in response to this Item.

SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Stockholders

Stockholders approved the Company’s 1994, 1997, and 2002 Omnibus Long-Term
Compensation Plans; the 1994, 1999, and 2002 Director Long-Term Compensation
Plans; and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. Although stock
and stock-based based awards are still outstanding under the 1994 and 1997
Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plans, as well as the 1994 and 1999 Director
Long-Term Compensation Plans, no new shares are available under these plans for
future grants.

Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders

Stockholders have approved all compensation plans under which shares of Eastman
common stock may be issued.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Summary Table

The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2002 with
respect to compensation plans under which shares of Eastman common stock may be
issued.

A

B

C

No. Shares

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

No. Shares to be

Under Equity

Issued upon

Weighted-Average

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

(Excluding Shares

Plan Category

Outstanding Options

Outstanding Options

in Column A)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
stockholders

8,511,597

(1)

$


7,766,204

(2)

Equity compensation
plans not
approved
by stockholders




TOTAL

8,511,597

$


7,766,204

(1)

Represents shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of
outstanding options granted under Eastman Chemical Company’s 1994,
1997, and 2002 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plans; the 1994, 1999,
and 2002 Director Long-Term Compensation Plans; and the 1996
Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

(2)

Includes shares of common stock available for future grants under
the Company’s 2002 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan, the 2002
Director Long-Term Compensation Plan, and the 1996 Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

There are no transactions or relationships since the beginning of the last
completed fiscal year required to be reported in response to this Item.

ITEM 14.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company maintains a set of disclosure controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that
it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. Within the 90-day period
prior to the filing of this Annual Report, an evaluation was carried out under
the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Subsequent to the date of their evaluation, there were no significant changes
in the Company’s internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect these controls.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Page

(a)

1.

Consolidated Financial Statements:


Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements


Report of Independent Accountants


Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss),
Comprehensive Income (Loss), and Retained Earnings


Consolidated Statements of Financial Position


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements

73-111

2.

Financial Statement
Schedule

II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


3.

Exhibits filed as part of this report are listed in
the Exhibit Index beginning at page 116

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K
during the fourth quarter 2002.

(c)

The Exhibit Index and required Exhibits to this report are included
beginning at page 116

(d)

II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Eastman Chemical Company

By:

/s/ J. Brian Ferguson

J. Brian Ferguson

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 11, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CERTIFICATIONS

I, J. Brian Ferguson, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Eastman Chemical
Company;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this Annual Report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual
Report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we
have:

a.

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual
Report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
filing date of this Annual Report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c.

presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):

a.

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and
have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material
weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
Annual Report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date: March 11, 2003

/s/ J. Brian Ferguson

J. Brian Ferguson

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CERTIFICATIONS

I, James P. Rogers, certify that:

1.     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Eastman Chemical
Company;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this Annual Report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual
Report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we
have:

a.

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual
Report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
filing date of this Annual Report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c.

presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):

a.

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and
have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material
weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
Annual Report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date: March 11, 2003

/s/ James P. Rogers

James P. Rogers

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Sequential

Number

Description

Page Number

3.01

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of Eastman Chemical Company, as amended
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.01 to
Eastman Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001)

3.02

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Eastman Chemical
Company, as amended December 5, 2002

124-136

4.01

Form of Eastman Chemical Company Common Stock
certificate as amended February 1, 2001
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.01
to Eastman Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001
(the “March 31, 2001 10-Q”)

4.02

Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as
of December 13, 1993, between Eastman Chemical
Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New
York, as Rights Agent (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Eastman Chemical
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8
relating to the Eastman Investment Plan, File No.
33-73810)

4.03

Indenture, dated as of January 10, 1994, between
Eastman Chemical Company and The Bank of New
York, as Trustee (the “Indenture”) (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Eastman
Chemical Company’s current report on Form 8-K
dated January 10, 1994 (the “8-K”))

4.04

Form of 6 3/8% Notes due January 15, 2004
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c)
to the 8-K)

4.05

Form of 7 1/4% Debentures due January 15, 2024
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(d)
to the 8-K)

4.06

Officers’ Certificate pursuant to Sections 201
and 301 of the Indenture (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Eastman Chemical
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June
8, 1994 (the “June 8-K”))

4.07

Form of 7 5/8% Debentures due June 15, 2024
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b)
to the June 8-K)

4.08

Form of 7.60% Debentures due February 1, 2027
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.08
to Eastman Chemical Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
(the “1996 10-K”))

4.09

Form of 7% Notes due April 15, 2012 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.09 to Eastman
Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2002)

4.10

Officer’s Certificate pursuant to Sections 201
and 301 of the Indenture related to 7.60%
Debentures due February 1, 2027 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.09 to the 1996
10-K)



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Sequential

Number

Description

Page Number

4.11

$200,000,000 Accounts Receivable Securitization agreement dated April
13, 1999 (amended April 11, 2000), between the Company and Bank One,
NA, as agent. Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, in
lieu of filing a copy of such agreement, the Company agrees to furnish
a copy of such agreement to the Commission upon request.

4.12

Credit Agreement, dated as of July 13, 2000 (the “Credit Agreement”)
among Eastman Chemical Company, the Lenders named therein, and
Citibank, N.A. as Agent (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4.11 to Eastman Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2000)

10.01*

Eastman Chemical Company Benefit Security Trust dated January 2, 2002
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.04 to Eastman Chemical
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2002)

10.02*

Eastman Performance Plan as amended

137-153

10.03*

2002 Director Long-Term Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Appendix A to Eastman Chemical
Company’s definitive 2002 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A)

10.04*

Eastman 2001-2003 Long-Term Performance Subplan of 1997 Omnibus
Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.03 to the June 30, 2001 10-Q)

10.05*

Eastman Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
February 6, 2003

154-172

10.06*

Eastman Excess Retirement Income Plan, amended and restated effective
January 1, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to
Eastman Chemical Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2001, as initially filed on March 12, 2002.)

10.07*

Eastman Unfunded Retirement Income Plan, amended and restated effective
January 1, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
Eastman Chemical Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2001, as initially filed on March 12, 2002.)

10.08*

Form of Executive Severance Agreements, (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Eastman Chemical
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2001, as initially filed on March 12, 2002.)

10.09*

Eastman Unit Performance Plan , as amended (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the June 30, 2001 10-Q)

10.10*

2002 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by
reference to Appendix A to Eastman Chemical Company’s
definitive 2002 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A)



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Sequential

Number

Description

Page Number

10.11*

1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to Eastman Chemical Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996)

10.12*

Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended

173-182

10.13*

Employment Agreement between Eastman Chemical Company and James P.
Rogers (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.02 to Eastman
Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 1999)

10.14*

Eastman 2000-2002 Long-Term Performance Subplan of 1997 Omnibus
Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.20 to Eastman Chemical Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1999 (the “1999 10-K”))

10.15*

Form of Award Notice for Stock Options Granted to Managers under
Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1999 10-K)

10.16*

Form of Indemnification Agreements between Theresa K. Lee, Gregory O.
Nelson, James P. Rogers and Eastman Chemical for
service as directors of Genencor International, Inc. (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the June 30, 2000 10-Q)

10.17

Imaging Chemicals License Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1993,
between Eastman Kodak Company and Eastman Chemical Company
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the S-1)

10.18

Contribution Agreement, dated as of December 9, 1993, between Eastman
Kodak Company and Eastman Chemical Company (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.07 to the S-1)

10.19

General Assignment, Assumption and Agreement Regarding Litigation,
Claims and Other Liabilities, dated as of December 31, 1993, between
Eastman Kodak Company and Eastman Chemical Company (incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.08 to the S-1)

10.20

Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, dated as of December 31,
1993, between Eastman Kodak Company and Eastman Chemical Company
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.09 to the S-1)

10.21

Intellectual Property Agreement Non-Imaging, dated as of December 31,
1993, between Eastman Kodak Company and Eastman Chemical Company
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the S-1)

10.22*

Notice of Restricted Stock Granted Pursuant to the Eastman Chemical
Company 2002 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan, dated October 7, 2002
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to Eastman Chemical
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2002)

10.23*

Amended and Restated Warrant to Purchase Shares of Common Stock of
Eastman Chemical Company, dated January 2, 2002 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.02 to Eastman Chemical Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002)

10.24*

Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 2,
2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to Eastman
Chemical Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2002)



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Sequential

Number

Description

Page Number

12.01

Statement re: Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges


21.01

Subsidiaries of the Company

184-185

23.01

Consent of Independent Accountants


99.01

Operating Segment Information, Sales Revenue Change, Volume Effect,
Price Effect and Interdivisional Effect


99.02

Operating Segment Information, Sales Revenue by Segment


99.03

Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by J. Brian Ferguson,
Chief Executive Officer and James P. Rogers, Chief Financial Officer,
for the year ended December 31, 2002


*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant to Item 601(b) (10)(iii) of Regulation S-K.

123