
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549


                                   FORM 10-K


[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED December 31, 1994
                                        -----------------

Commission file number: 0-13253
                        -------


                        United HealthCare Corporation
                      --------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Minnesota                                 41-1321939
      ----------------------------------                  -----------------
       (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

                300 Opus Center
              9900 Bren Road East
             Minnetonka, Minnesota                              55343
      ----------------------------------------               -----------
      (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (612) 936-1300
                                                    --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


       Common Stock, $.01 par value        New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
       ----------------------------        -----------------------------   
           (Title of Each Class)              (Name of Each Exchange
                                               on which Registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X    No 
                                         -------    -------       



                               [Page One of Two]

 
Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [_]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 13, 1995, was approximately $5,782,458,005* (based on the
last reported sale price of $43.25 per share on March  13, 1995, on the New York
Stock Exchange).

As of March  13, 1995, 172,943,352 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, were issued and outstanding.


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Annual Report to Shareholders of Registrant for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1994.  Certain information therein is incorporated by reference into Part
II hereof.

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Registrant to be held
on May 10, 1995.  Certain information therein is incorporated by reference into
Part III hereof.





- ---------------------------------------------
*Only shares of common stock held beneficially by directors and executive
officers of the Company and persons or entities filing Schedules 13G and
received by the Company have been excluded in determining this number.

                               [Page Two of Two]

  
                                     PART I
                               ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
                               -----------------

     United HealthCare Corporation/SM/ is a national leader in health care
management and has offered services to health care coverage purchasers and
providers since 1974.  As of December 31, 1994, the Company served over three
million members through its owned and managed health plans and provided
specialty managed care products and services that cover over 23 million
participant lives through employers, employee groups, insurers, health
maintenance organization ("HMO") operators and other health care payors and
health care providers.  Based on its experience with multiple HMO models, the
Company has developed a number of core capabilities, including medical
information management, health benefit administrative services, risk assessment
practices, benefit design, provider risk sharing and managed health care
delivery.  With these capabilities, UHC provides both comprehensive managed care
services, such as HMO and carrier replacement products, and unbundled health
care management and cost containment products, such as mental health and
substance abuse benefit plans, utilization review services, specialized provider
networks and employee assistance programs.  Prior to May 27, 1994, the Company
also provided management services for prescription drug benefit plans through
its Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. ("Diversified") subsidiary.  On
May 27, 1994, the Company sold Diversified and no longer offers such services.

     United HealthCare Corporation is a Minnesota corporation, incorporated in
January 1977.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "UHC" and
"Company" refer to United HealthCare Corporation and its subsidiaries.  The
Company's executive offices are located at 300 Opus Center, 9900 Bren Road East,
Minnetonka, Minnesota  55343; telephone (612) 936-1300.

HEALTH PLANS AND RELATED OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------

     The Company has a majority ownership interest in a number of health plans.
With respect to these owned health plan operations, the Company assumes
underwriting risk in return for the premium revenue it receives.  The Company
also provides administrative and other management services to health plans in
which the Company has no ownership interest or has a minority  ownership
interest.  With respect to these managed health plan operations, the Company
receives an administrative fee for providing its services and generally assumes
no responsibility for health care costs.  The Company's health plans are usually
licensed as HMOs or insurers and provide comprehensive health care coverage for
a fixed annual fee or premium that does not vary with the extent of medical
services received by the member.  In addition, these HMOs control medical and
hospital costs through contractual arrangements with independent providers of
health care services.  Certain of these health plans employ health care
providers and directly deliver health care services to enrollees and other
individuals.  Cost-effective delivery of health care services by both employed
and contracted health care providers is achieved by assuring appropriate use of
health care services, emphasizing preventive health services and encouraging the
reduction of unnecessary hospitalization and other unnecessary services.

     During 1994, the Company acquired the following health plans and their
related operations: CAC-Ramsay Health Plans, Inc. in Miami, Florida; Complete
Health, Inc. in Birmingham, Alabama; Complete Health of Mississippi, Inc., in
Jackson, Mississippi, Complete Health of Tennessee, Inc., in Chattanooga,
Tennessee;  Complete Health of Arkansas Inc., in Little Rock, Arkansas; and
Complete Health of Georgia, Inc. in Atlanta, Georgia.  On January 3, 1995, the
Company acquired GenCare Health Systems, Inc., a St. Louis, Missouri, based
health plan, and its related operations and on February 28, 1995, the Company
acquired Group Sales and Services of Puerto Rico, Inc., a Puerto Rico based
health plan.

     The following table provides certain information concerning the Company's
health plans at December 31, 1994:


 



 
(1)  Health plans in which the Company has a majority or greater ownership
     interest and to which the Company provides management services.

(2)  Includes individuals covered under self-insured health plans served by UHC
     and utilizing the provider networks of the health plan; and individuals
     covered under products offered by one of the Company's insurance company
     subsidiaries and utilizing the health plan's provider network.

(3)  Represents the combined operations of the Company's two Illinois health
     plans:  Chicago HMO Ltd. and Share Health Plan/SM/ of Illinois, Inc.

(4)  Represents the combined operations of the Company's two Ohio health plans:
     Physicians Health Plan of Ohio, Inc. and Western Ohio Health Care
     Corporation, which have been merged since January 1,1994.

(5)  Includes the operations of a wholly owned subsidiary of the named health
     plan which is a separately licensed HMO.

(6)  Health plan in which the Company has a controlling interest due to its
     combined ownership and management interests.

(7)  On January 3, 1995, the Company acquired GenCare Health Systems, Inc., a
     St. Louis, Missouri based health plan whose December 31, 1994 total
     enrollment was 197,900, and whose January 31, 1995 total enrollment was
     230,000.  On February 28, 1995, the Company acquired Group Sales and
     Services of Puerto Rico, Inc., a Puerto Rico based health plan whose
     December 31, 1994 total enrollment was 133,900 and whose January 31, 1995
     total enrollment was 135,100.

(8)  Total owned health plan revenues represented 89% of UHC's total revenues
     for 1994.

(9)  Health plans in which the Company has a minority or no ownership interest
     and to which the Company provides management services.

(10) Medica includes the combined operations of the health plans previously
     known as Physicians Health Plan/SM/ of Minnesota and Share/SM/, both of
     which were provided management services by the Company prior to their
     affiliation in 1991.

(11) Health plans which operate in separate geographic locations but under one
     HMO license.

(12) The Company's management agreement with the named health plan will expire
     in 1995.

(13) Total minority owned or managed health plan revenues represented less than
     5% of UHC's total revenues for 1994.


  
A number of the Company's health plans' enrollee health care coverage contracts
commence, expire or renew, as the case may be, as of January 1 of each year.
Accordingly, those health plans' January 31 enrollment figures in any year may
differ from the prior year's December 31 enrollment figures.  Total owned health
plan enrollment as of January 31, 1995, was:  Commercial - 2,132,700; Medicaid -
291,300; Medicare -111,200; and Total - 2,535,200, including GenCare.  Total
minority owned or managed health plan enrollment as of January 31, 1995, was:
Commercial - 1,012,500, Medicaid - 50,100, Medicare - 76,600, and Total -
1,139,200.

Management Services.   UHC's responsibilities as a manager for both owned and
- -------------------                                                          
managed health plans generally include the installation, maintenance and
operation of management information systems and the provision of claims
processing, marketing, contracting, financial and accounting services.  For the
management services it provides to health plans, UHC generally receives a fee
based on a percentage of the gross revenues of each health plan.  Under certain
management agreements, the Company may receive additional management services
fees based on performance parameters during a contract year.  In health plans in
which the Company has a majority ownership interest, UHC records in its
consolidated financial statements the premium revenues and related medical
services costs.  In these health plans, the Company may also participate
directly with health care providers in economic incentives relating to the
efficient use of specialty care referrals, hospitalization and other services.

Provider Network Management.  The Company provides management and related
- ---------------------------                                              
services to health plans operating modified fee-for-service HMO products,
capitated network model HMO products and staff model HMOs.  Physicians
participating in modified fee-for-service model HMOs are generally compensated
for each treatment or service provided to an HMO enrollee.  UHC's modified fee-
for-service model HMOs contract with a large number of independent health care
providers in many office locations.  The Company's capitated model HMOs
generally contract with designated primary care (family practice, internal
medicine and pediatric) physicians or physician groups to provide or arrange
medical care for HMO enrollees for a fixed capitation fee for each enrollee who
selects that physician or group.  This capitation payment does not vary with the
nature or extent of services provided to the enrollee.  The Company's staff
model HMOs employ health care providers, primarily primary care physicians, and
generally contract with independent specialist physicians.  All of the Company's
health plans emphasize controlling health care costs and promoting the quality
of health care delivered by focusing medical utilization and cost controls on
referrals, hospitalization and other services, and utilizing claims and practice
pattern information for quality assessment.

Risk Assessment.  Underwriting is the process by which a health plan assesses
- ---------------                                                              
the risk of enrolling members and groups and re-enrolling groups, and
establishes the appropriate or necessary premium charges.  The setting of
premium rates directly affects a health plan's profitability and marketing
success.  The Company has developed underwriting guidelines, administered by a
corporate underwriting staff, which are used to determine the rates to be
charged prospective employer groups.  The ability and extent to which an
individual's health status may be used in determining whether to accept
prospective members or groups or to set premium rates is subject to increasing
state regulation and often varies by type of product.

     The profitability of the Company as a health care management company
depends in large part on effectively predicting and managing health care costs.
Because the Company's HMOs provide services on a prepaid basis, with premiums
per member usually fixed for one-year periods, unexpected cost increases or
unexpected utilization during the contract period cannot be immediately
incorporated into the premium structure.  If an unexpectedly high number of the
Company's HMO members experience conditions requiring expensive medical
treatment, such as premature births, heart transplants or severe trauma, the
Company's profitability may be affected.  In addition, changes in health care
regulations and practices, inflation, new technologies, major epidemics, natural
disasters, and other factors affecting the delivery and cost of health care
which are beyond the Company's control may adversely affect the Company's
ability to predict and control health care costs.

Medicare.  Certain of the Company's health plans provide Medicare-eligible
- --------                                                                  
persons with a wide range of health services through specifically designed
Medicare benefits programs.  Medicare is a federal program designed to provide
health care coverage for the elderly.  The Company's Medicare benefit programs
may


  
carry certain disadvantages, such as higher comparative medical costs and levels
of utilization as compared to non-Medicare members, government regulatory and
reporting requirements, the possibility of reduced or insufficient government
reimbursement in the future and higher marketing and advertising costs
associated with selling to individuals rather than groups.

     Medicare programs are offered by the health plans pursuant to a risk
contract, a cost contract or a health care pre-payment plan ("HCPP") arrangement
between the health plan and the federal Medicare funding agency ("HCFA").  Under
a risk contract, in addition to the payment of a small premium by the member in
some cases, the health plan is reimbursed on a fixed per member per month basis
by the federal government for the projected cost of health services.  The health
plan then bears the risk that the actual costs of health services may exceed the
per member per month amount.  The Company believes that its risk contract
Medicare programs are attractive to Medicare beneficiaries because they provide
for broad benefit coverage; eliminate Medicare required copayments, deductibles,
coinsurance amounts and disallowed charges and substantially reduce the member's
administrative responsibilities.  A health plan with a Medicare risk contract
must maintain at least 50% of its total enrollment in non-Medicare programs.

     Under a Medicare cost contract, the health plan pays physicians and other
health care providers for services provided to the health plan's members and is
then reimbursed by the federal government.  Under some forms of cost contracts,
the federal government may continue to pay hospitals directly for inpatient
services.  Revenues and potential opportunities for profits under a cost
contract may often be less than under a risk contract, but the risk of adverse
financial results to the health plan is usually reduced.

     As of December 31, 1994, approximately 185,600 enrollees in the Company's
health plans were covered by a Medicare benefits program and 14% of the
Company's 1994 revenues was associated with such programs.

Medicaid.  The Medicaid population represents another market for health plans
- --------                                                                     
managed or owned by the Company.  Medicaid is a joint federal and state program
designed to provide health care coverage for the indigent.  The prepaid Medicaid
programs generally operate similarly to Medicare risk contracts and carry
similar risks.  In addition, a health plan offering a Medicaid related program
must maintain at least 25% of its total enrollment in non-Medicaid and non-
Medicare programs.  A number of states have recently undertaken or indicated an
intent to undertake an expansion and/or reform of their Medicaid managed care
programs.

     As of December 31, 1994, approximately 332,300 enrollees in the Company's
health plans were covered under Medicaid prepaid contracts and 11% of the
Company's 1994 revenues was associated with such programs.

Insurance Products.  Through its subsidiaries United Health and Life Insurance
- ------------------                                                            
Company ("UHL"), United Health and Life Insurance Company of Ohio, United Health
and Life Insurance Company of Illinois and Ramsay Life and Health Insurance
Company, UHC offers several health insurance products in conjunction with health
plan products on a carrier replacement basis.  These products permit employers
to replace multiple health care policies and vendors with a single health care
plan.  These subsidiaries also offer reinsurance and other insured products on a
selective basis to most of the Company's health plans and to employers and other
sponsoring groups offering self-funded health care benefit plans.  The Company's
insurance subsidiaries are licensed to sell group life, accidental death and
dismemberment, short-term disability and health insurance products in a total of
41 states and the District of Columbia.

Self-funded Products.  The Company has developed self-funded products for
- --------------------                                                     
employers who desire the cost containment aspects of an HMO product and want to
self-insure the health care cost risk.  The Company uses the provider networks
it has developed in connection with its HMO products for these self-funded
products.  The provider contracts for these products are with individual
physicians or groups of physicians as well as health care facilities and are
generally on a standardized fee-for-service basis.  Self-funded products offer
employers and other sponsoring groups access to a provider network and the
administrative and utilization review services associated with an HMO product,
but the risks of health care utilization generally are borne by the sponsoring
group.


 
 SPECIALTY MANAGED CARE SERVICES
- --------------------------------

     Through its experience in providing comprehensive health care management
services and in response to increasing market demand for greater choice and
flexibility in the design of health care coverage products and funding
arrangements, the Company has developed core capabilities which have enabled it
to introduce competitive products to facilitate the efficient delivery of health
care services.  These products are offered independently of the Company's owned
and managed health plans through its specialty managed care services operations.
The Company also makes these products available to its owned and managed health
plans where feasible.

     With respect to its specialty managed care services, the Company receives
fees for the provision of services, primarily administrative in nature, and
generally assumes no responsibility for health care costs except in the case of
its former subsidiary, Diversified, and its United Behavioral Systems, Inc.
("UBS") subsidiary.  Prior to the sale of Diversified in May 1994, Diversified
accepted health care cost responsibility for the managed delivery of
pharmaceutical benefit programs for some of its customers (primarily health
plans owned by the Company).  In addition, through UBS, the Company assumes some
responsibility for health care costs for the provision of mental
health/substance abuse services and thus recognizes premium-like revenue and
medical services expense.

     As of December 31, 1994, the Company's specialty managed care products were
available to a total of approximately 23 million participant lives, 81% of whom
were not enrolled in one of the Company's owned health plans.  One person may be
covered by more than one specialty managed care service and therefore may
account for more than one of these participant lives. The Company offers the
following specialty managed care services to HMOs, preferred provider
organizations ("PPOs"), insurers, providers, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, third
party administrators,  employers and government agencies.

Care Management Services.  The Company's care management business unit offers
- ------------------------                                                     
products providing customers and members with utilization management and benefit
administration services, access to a national network of health care facilities
for transplant-related services and workers compensation and disability claims
management services.

     Care Management and Benefit Administration Services. The Company's
Healthmarc and HealthPro programs offer insurers, employers, labor union health
and welfare funds and governmental entities unbundled cost and utilization
review and case management services.  These services include prior,  concurrent
and retrospective review of hospital admissions and certain ambulatory services,
second opinion programs, case management, specialist referrals and discharge
planning.  These services emphasize patient and provider education as a means of
assisting clients in managing their health care costs.  As of December 31, 1994,
these programs were provided to approximately three million individuals, 99% of
whom were not enrolled in any of the Company's owned health plans.

     The Company's recently introduced Total Care Management program offers
those employers, labor union health and welfare funds and governmental entities
who do not have access to the Company's health plans an alternative - access to
bundled managed care services.  These services include utilization management,
medical information and education, claims payment, networks, mental
health/sustance abuse services, and other related services.  These services can
provide health plan-like results to those clients who have constituencies
outside health plan service areas.

     Transplant Network.  The Company's United Resource Networks ("URN") program
offers clients access to an international network of health care facilities for
transplant-related services and transplant case management services.  URN
negotiates fixed, competitive rates for high-cost, low-frequency health care
services such as organ and tissue transplants.  URN's network is utilized by
UHC's health plans and is also sold to non-affiliated insurance companies and
health plans, third party administrators, government agencies and self-funded
employers.  In addition, URN's United TransReview/SM/ product provides clients
with recommendations about whether particular individuals are appropriate
candidates for transplantation.  As of December 31, 1994, URN's  products were
available to approximately 16 million individuals, approximately 86% of whom
were individuals not enrolled in any of the Company's owned health plans.



 
     Workers Compensation and Disability Management Services.  UHC's workers'
compensation management services include the operations of FOCUS Healthcare
Management(registered trademark), Inc. ("FOCUS"), a subsidiary acquired by the
Company in January 1994, and UHC's former Workers Compensation/Casualty
Services ("WCCS") division. The Company's workers' compensation and disability
management services tailor the Company's broad managed care resources into
products and services intended to apply managed care concepts, such as
utilization review and use of specialized preferred provider networks, to
workers compensation and casualty insurance cases.  These products and
services are provided to insurers and large self-insured employers and include
hospitalization and outpatient surgery precertification and case management,
access to provider networks, specialized programs such as carpal tunnel and
back injury case management, and review of imaging (CT scans and MRI) services.

     Employee and Member Assistance Programs.  The Company's Institute for Human
Resources ("IHR") division offers clients employee assistance programs which
provide an assessment and referral service to a client's employees and family
members for work-related or personal problems which might otherwise interfere
with an employee's productivity.  The Company also offers its employee
assistance programs in conjunction with its Healthmarc and HealthPro programs
and its 24-hour health care information line product known as Nurseline.  IHR's
clients include health plans, government agencies or departments, self-insured
organizations and insurers. As of December 31, 1994, IHR's services were
available to approximately three million individuals, approximately 74% of whom
were individuals not enrolled in any of the Company's owned health plans.

Geriatric Care Management Services.  The Companys also develops and provides
- ----------------------------------                 
products and services to HMOs and providers for cost control and the management
of health care for the elderly. LinkAge(registered trademark) (formerly marketed
as Geriatric Case Management System) identifies for hospitals high-cost, high-
risk inpatients upon admission and provides focused case management throughout
their hospital stay. The Company's EverCare(registered trademark) program
arranges for the provision of managed medical care services to institutionalized
elderly individuals in nursing homes through contracts with a physician-nurse
practitioner team. EverCare, in conjunction with UHL, is participating in a
demonstration project with HCFA to offer managed health care services to the
institutionalized elderly in nine separate locations throughout the country. The
Company's Long Term Care Group division provides consulting and administrative
services relating to long term care insurance to employers and insurance
carriers, including information services and underwriting services.

Behavioral Health Services.  The specialty operations in the Company's
- --------------------------                                            
Behavioral Health Services business unit include mental health and substance
abuse related services.  UHC's UBS subsidiary provides a specialized provider
network and mental health and substance abuse benefit program services including
providing or arranging for behavioral health care/case management services and
network development services, primarily on a capitation basis, to certain of
UHC's owned or managed health plans, and to other health plans or PPOs and
insurance companies.  UBS' services are provided by employed behavioral health
care professionals and by a network of contracted providers.  As of December 31,
1994, UBS was providing its services to approximately three million individuals,
approximately 51% of whom  were individuals not enrolled in any of the Company's
owned health plans.

Prescription Drug Benefit Program Services.  Prior to its sale in May 1994,
- ------------------------------------------                                 
UHC's Diversified subsidiary administered UHC's prescription drug benefit
program services.  Diversified's services included the establishment of a
pharmacy network and formulary, installation and operation of a pharmacy claims
processing system, and maintenance of a prescription information database.
Diversified also assisted its clients in managing pharmaceutical costs through
chargeback arrangements with major pharmaceutical manufacturers.

International Business.  The Company has begun exploring opportunities to sell
- ----------------------                                                        
its products and services in foreign countries and anticipates utilizing various
arrangements such as joint ventures, as well as direct contracting.



 
CENTER FOR HEALTHCARE POLICY AND EVALUATION
- -------------------------------------------

     The Center for HealthCare Policy and Evaluation (the "Center") is the
Company's quality-of-care and research unit.  The Center's activities include
developing UHC's nationwide operations' commitment to measuring and reporting
performance; providing quality of care, patient surveying and cost-effectiveness
research and analysis; and participating in major national public policy
initiatives to positively influence the reform of health care delivery,
financing and access.

     HealthCare Evaluation Services.  The Company's HealthCare Evaluation
Services ("HCES") division, a part of the Center, performs services and research
relating to the growing data and analysis needs of the Company's health plans,
specialty managed care services businesses and an external client base.  HCES
offers the following research services and software developed by the Center to
third-party payers, providers, employers and the government, and utilizes these
services and software in the management of the Company's health plans and
specialty managed care services:

     Quality Screening and Management (QSM(registered trademark)). QSM is a
     -------------------------------------------                             
     comprehensive quality management program  that assists managed care
     organizations and other enrolled populations, such as Medicaid programs,
     in the evaluation of health care quality.  The QSM software incorporates
     and reports measures of quality and access to care through performance
     indicators such as disease incidence rates, occurrence of adverse events,
     condition-specific processes and outcomes, and utilization of preventive
     services.

     ProSight(registered trademark). ProSight is an executive information
     --------
     system that allows users to manage health care costs and utilization
     through simplified data analysis and reporting packages.  A decision
     support database facilitates additional customized analysis.

     Physician Profiling.  Physician Profiling is a desktop performance
     --------------------                                              
     evaluation tool that supports ongoing management of physician networks by
     managed care organizations.  The system uses case data collection, peer-
     based physician norms and comparative report software to describe physician
     performance in the areas of cost, quality and utilization.
 
     EPIS(trademark). EPIS is a specialized analytic software system which
     allows
     --------                                                           
     clients to profile comparative data. The Company also utilizes EPIS as the
     platform from which it updates and disseminates the latest expert-derived
     clinical guidelines to its health plans and other clients.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
- ------------------------------

     The Company's health plans and specialty managed care products use
computer-based management information systems for various purposes, including
claims processing, billing, utilization management, underwriting, marketing and
sales tracking, general accounting, medical cost trending, managed care
reporting and financial planning.  These systems also support member, group and
provider service functions, including on-line access to membership verification,
claims and referral status and information regarding hospital admissions and
lengths of stay.  In addition, these systems support extensive analysis of cost
and outcome data.

     The Company's computer information systems which support its health plans
and specialty managed care services operations are continually being enhanced
and upgraded.  System development efforts relating to increased efficiency,
capacity and flexibility are ongoing.  The Company's computer processing
capabilities support multiple product delivery systems with attendant tracking
and processing for such systems, an integrated database of information for
increased reporting and research capabilities, and  use automated entry and edit
capabilities to speed the capture and processing of information.  The Company
generally uses a phased release strategy to provide new systems capabilities to
its various operating units. Over the past several years, the Company has
upgraded its mainframe computers, enhanced its existing software functionality
and  migrated to various software database environments.  This approach allows
the Company to preserve its investment in existing systems while, at the same
time, enabling it to exploit new technologies that help improve either the cost
effectiveness of the services provided, or allow for the



introduction of new product capabilities.

Information System Products and Services.  The Company provides certain
- ---------------------------------------- 

components of its management information systems to nonaffiliated health plans,
self-funded employers and health care providers. As a third-party administrator,
UHC offers its management information systems, primarily its claims processing
and information reporting capabilities, to certain self-funded employers. The
Company believes that its technology-based products can lower clients'
administrative costs, improve information flow and facilitate decision making.
One of these information systems components is ProviderLink(registered
trademark), an EDI network and series of products designed as the foundation for
delivery of an electronic solution for health care payors, providers and
purchasers. In addition to enabling health care providers to electronically
submit referral authorizations and multi-payor claims, ProviderLink allows
provider clients immediate access to information on benefit coverage,
eligibility, referral and claim status and the ability to communicate through
electronic mail. EmployerLink, an EDI/electronic network information system that
links employers with their health plans. EmployerLink provides such employers
with electronic member enrollment, billing reconciliation, claims status and
electronic-mail capabilities.

     Episodes(registered trademark), UHC's utilization and case management
software, is a comprehensive healthcare management system designed for clients
who need to better manage their health care dollars. The software automates the
client's evaluation of the accuracy and appropriateness of care using industry-
accepted criteria and standards. Episodes captures necessary case information in
a relational structure that is intended to mirror the way health care
professionals think about their caseloads.

MARKETING
- ---------

     The Company's marketing strategy and implementation for its health plans
and alternative managed care products are defined and coordinated by UHC's
corporate marketing staff.  Primary marketing responsibility for each of the
Company's health plans and specialty managed care products resides with a
marketing director and a direct sales force.  In addition, the Company's health
plans and specialty managed care products are sold through independent insurance
agents and brokers.  Marketing efforts are supported by ongoing market research
that identifies and grades prospective customers and establishes specific
enrollment goals by territory and employer.  Marketing efforts are also
supported by public relations efforts and advertising programs that may employ
television, radio, newspapers, billboards, direct mail and telemarketing.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     The managed health care industry evolved primarily as a result of health
care buyers' concerns regarding rising health care costs.  The industry's goal
is to infuse greater cost effectiveness and accountability into the health care
system through the development of managed care products, including health plans,
PPOs, and specialized services such as mental health or pharmacy benefit
programs, while increasing the accessibility and quality of health care
services.  The managed health care industry is highly competitive, both
nationally and in the Company's various market areas.

     As HMO and PPO penetration of the health care market and the effects of
health care reforms increase nationwide, the Company expects that obtaining new
contracts for its products with large employer and government groups may become
more difficult and that competition for smaller employer groups will intensify.
In addition, employers may choose to self-insure the health care risk while
seeking benefit administration and utilization review services from third
parties to assist them in controlling and reporting health care costs.  In such
an environment, the Company believes that having a broad line of health care
programs and products available will be important in being selected by employers
to manage the health care products or coverage offered to their employees.

     The Company's health plans and specialty managed care coverage products
compete for group and individual membership with conventional health insurance
plans, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, other health plans, HMOs, PPOs, third party
administrators and health care companies, and employers or groups who elect to
self-insure.  The company's ability to increase the number of persons covered by
its products



 
or services or to increase its premiums and fees can be affected by the
Company's level of competition in any particular area.  The Company believes
that the principal competitive factors affecting the Company, its health plans
and its specialty managed care products include price, the level and quality of
service provided or arranged for, provider network capabilities, the offering of
innovative products and marketplace reputation.  The Company also faces
competition  from hospitals, health care facilities and other health care
providers who have combined and formed their own networks to contract directly
with employer groups and other prospective customers for the delivery of health
care services.

EXPANSION OF OPERATIONS
- -----------------------

     The Company continually seeks out and evaluates opportunities for future
growth and expansion.  Such growth and expansion opportunities may include
acquisitions or dispositions of specialty managed care services or health plan
operations, and the internal development of new products and techniques for the
containment of health care costs, the measurement of the outcomes and efficiency
of health care delivered and the management of health care delivery systems.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION
- ---------------------

     Government regulation of employee benefit plans, including health care
coverage, health plans and the Company's specialty managed care products, is a
changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and generally
gives responsible administrative agencies broad discretion.  The Company
believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the various
federal and state regulations applicable to its current operations.  To maintain
such compliance, it may be necessary for the Company or a subsidiary to make
changes from time to time in its services, products, structure or marketing
methods.  Additional governmental regulation or future interpretation of
existing regulations could increase the cost of the Company's compliance or
otherwise affect the Company's operations, products, profitability or business
prospects.

     The Company is unable to predict what additional government regulations, if
any, affecting its business may be enacted in the future or how existing or
future regulations might be interpreted.   A number of jurisdictions have
enacted small group insurance and rating reforms which generally limit the
ability of insurers and health plans to use risk selection as a method of
controlling costs for small group business.  These laws may generally limit or
eliminate use of pre-existing conditions exclusions, experience rating and
industry class rating and may limit the amount of rate increases from year to
year.    Under these laws, cost control through provider contracting and
managing care may become more important, and the Company believes its experience
in these areas will allow it to compete effectively.

     Increasingly states are considering various health care reform measures and
are adopting laws or regulations, which may limit the Company's health plans'
and insurance operations' ability to control which providers are part of their
networks and may hinder their ability to effectively manage utilization and
cost.  The Company is unable to predict what reforms, if any, may be enacted or
how those reforms would affect the Company's operations.

HMOs.  All of the states in which the Company's health plans offer HMO products
- ----                                                                           
have enacted statutes regulating the activities of those health plans.  Most
states require periodic financial reports from HMOs licensed to operate in their
states and impose minimum capital or reserve requirements.  Certain of the
Company's subsidiaries are required to retain for their own use cash generated
from their operations.  In  addition, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are
required by state regulatory agencies to maintain restricted cash reserves
represented by interest-bearing instruments which are held by trustees or state
regulatory agencies to ensure that adequate financial reserves are maintained.
Some state regulations enable agencies to review all contracts entered into by
HMOs, including management contracts, for reasonableness of fees charged and
other provisions.

     The Company's health plans which have Medicare risk contracts are subject
to regulation by HCFA, a branch of the United States Department of Health and
Human Services.  HCFA has the right to audit health plans operating under
Medicare risk contracts to determine each health plan's compliance with


 
HCFA's contracts and regulations and the quality of care being rendered to the
health plan's members.  To enter into Medicare risk contracts, a health plan
must either be federally qualified or be considered a Competitive Medical Plan
under HCFA's requirements.  Health plans which offer a Medicare risk product
also must comply with requirements established by peer review organizations
("PROs"), which are organizations under contract with HCFA to monitor the
quality of health care received by Medicare beneficiaries.  PRO requirements
relate to quality assurance and utilization review procedures.  The Company's
health plans which have Medicare cost and HCPP contracts are subject to similar
regulatory requirements.  In addition, these health plans are required to file
certain cost reimbursement reports with HCFA which are subject to audit and
revision.

     The Company's health plans which have Medicaid contracts are subject to
both federal and state regulation regarding services to be provided to Medicaid
enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of the Medicaid program.
Both Medicare and Medicaid have in force and/or have proposed regulations
relating to fraud and abuse, physician incentive plans and provider referrals
which may affect the Company's operations.

     Many of the Company's health plans have contracts with the Federal
Employees Health Benefit Plan ("FEHBP").  These contracts are subject to
extensive regulation, including complex rules relating to the premiums charged.
FEHBP has the authority to retroactively audit the rates charged and frequently
seeks premium refunds and other sanctions against health plans participating in
the program.  The Company's health plans which have contracted with FEHBP are
subject to such audits and may be requested to make such refunds.

Insurance Regulation.  The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
- --------------------                                                      
regulation by the Department of Insurance in each state in which the entity is
licensed.  Regulatory authorities exercise extensive supervisory power over
insurance companies in regard to the licensing of insurance companies; the
amount of reserves which must be maintained; the approval of forms and insurance
policies used; the nature of, and limitation on, an insurance company's
investments; periodic examination of the operations of insurance companies; the
form and content of annual statements and other reports required to be filed on
the financial companies condition of insurance companies; and the establishment
of capital requirements for insurance companies.  The Company's insurance
company subsidiaries are required to file periodic statutory financial
statements in each jurisdiction in which they are licensed.  Additionally, such
companies are periodically examined by the insurance departments of the
jurisdiction in which they are licensed to do business.

Insurance Holding Company Regulations.  Certain of the Company's health plans
- -------------------------------------                                        
and each of the Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under
state insurance holding company regulations.  Such insurance holding company
laws and regulations generally require registration with the state Department of
Insurance and the filing of certain reports describing capital structure,
ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general
business operations.  Various notice and reporting requirements generally apply
to transactions between companies within an insurance holding company system,
depending on the size and nature of the transactions.  Certain state insurance
holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in
certain circumstances, prior notice of, certain material intercompany transfers
of assets as well as certain transactions between the regulated companies, their
parent holding companies and affiliates, and acquisitions.

TPAs.  Certain subsidiaries of the Company are also licensed as third-party
- ----                                                                       
administrators ("TPAs") in states where such licensing is required for their
activities.  TPA regulations, although differing greatly from state to state,
generally contain certain required administrative procedures, periodic reporting
obligations and minimum financial requirements.

PPOs. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries' operations may be subject to PPO
- -----                                                                        
regulation in a particular state.  PPO regulations generally contain certain
network, contracting, financial and reporting requirements which vary from state
to state.

Utilization Review Regulations.  A number of states have enacted laws and/or
- ------------------------------                                              
adopted regulations governing the provision of utilization review activities.
Generally, these laws and regulations require compliance with



specific standards for the delivery of services, confidentiality, staffing, and
policies and procedures of private review entities, including the credentials
required of personnel.  Some of these laws and regulations may affect certain
operations of the Company's business units.

MCOs.  In recent years a number of states have enacted laws enabling self-
- ----                                                                     
insured employers and/or insurance carriers to apply medical management and
other managed care techniques to the medical benefit portion of workers'
compensation, if such managed care is performed by a state certified managed
care organization ("MCO").  The Company, by itself or with its HMOs, has
generally sought MCO certification in the states where it is available and where
it markets managed care workers compensation products.  MCO laws differ
significantly from state to state, but generally address network and utilization
review activities.

ERISA.  The provision of goods and services to or through certain types of
- -----                                                                     
employee health benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA").  ERISA is a complex set of laws and regulations
that are subject to periodic interpretation by the United States Department of
Labor.  ERISA places certain controls on how UHC's business units may do
business with employers covered by ERISA, particularly employers that maintain
self-funded plans.  The Department of Labor is engaged in an ongoing ERISA
enforcement program which may result in additional constraints on how ERISA-
governed benefit plans conduct their activities.  There recently have been
legislative attempts to limit ERISA's preemptive effect on state laws.  If such
limitations were to be enacted, they might increase UHC's liability exposure
under state law-based suits relating to employee health benefits offered by
UHC's health plans and specialty businesses and may permit greater state
regulation of other aspects of those businesses' operations.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     As of December 31, 1994, the Company employed approximately 9,600 persons;
approximately 150 of which  were represented by a union.  The Company believes
its employee relations are good.






Executive Officers of the Company are elected annually by the Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

     Dr. McGuire became a director of the Company in February 1989 and the
Chairman of the Board in May 1991.  Dr. McGuire became an Executive Vice
President of UHC in November 1988, was appointed the Company's Chief Operating
Officer in May 1989, the Company's President in November 1989 and the Company's
Chief Executive Officer in February 1991.

     Mr. Conto has been employed by the Company since 1985 and has served as its
Vice President, Acquisitions and Audit since 1991.  From 1985 to 1987, he was
the Assistant Director of HMO Financial Research, from 1987 to 1990, he was the
Director of Internal Audit and from 1990 to 1991 he was the Company's Director
of Development.

     Mr. Bradley has been employed by the Company since October 1989 and is
currently a Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer.  From 1987 to
1989, Mr. Bradley was a Senior Manager at Price Waterhouse, a world-wide public
accounting and professional services firm.

     Dr. Gould  became the Company's Senior Vice President, Specialty Operations
in August 1990 and UHC's Senior Vice President, International Development in
September 1993.  Prior to joining UHC, Dr. Gould served as a Senior Vice
President from April 1988 to August 1990 for Blue Cross of California.  Dr.
Gould also served as the Corporate Medical Director for Blue Cross of California
from November 1986 to August 1990 and as a Commissioner of the State of
California's Health Policy and Data Advisory Commission from 1985 through 1990.

     Mr. Koppe became the Company's Chief Financial Officer in December 1994.
He has been employed by the Company since June 1983 and has served as the
Company's Vice President and Treasurer  since May 1989.  Mr. Koppe also served
as the Company's Controller from May 1989 until October 1994.

     Ms. Leatherman became President of UHC's Center for Health Care Policy and
Evaluation in June 1992.  From 1989 to 1992, Ms. Leatherman was UHC's Vice
President of Research and Development.  Ms. Leatherman was Vice President,
Medical Affairs of Partners National Health Plans from 1987 to 1989.

     Mr. Pogue became Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Product
Development in October 1989.  Mr. Pogue was previously with Lincoln National
Life Insurance Company of Fort Wayne, Indiana, for 20 years in various
capacities, most recently as Vice President of Sales.

     Ms. Rivet became the Company's Executive Vice President, Operations in
October, 1994.  She served as the Company's Senior Vice President, Health Plan
Operations from September 1993 to September 1994; and the Company's Vice
President of Health Service Operations from June 1990 to September 1993.  From
1989 to 1990, Ms. Rivet was Vice President of Group Operations of The Prudential
Insurance Company of America.
 
     Mr. Roche' became Secretary and General Counsel of the Company in May 1989.
From August 1987 to April 1989, Mr. Roche' was Associate General Counsel of
Partners National Health Plans.

     Ms. Walstead-Plumb joined the Company as Vice President of Claims in
January 1986 and became Vice President of Group Service Administration in May
1990.  Ms. Walstead-Plumb became a Senior Vice President of the Company in 1992.

     Mr. Wills  became Senior Vice President, Specialty Operations of the
Company in November 1992.  From 1968 to 1992, Mr. Wills was employed by CIGNA
Corporation, a multi-line insurance company, in various capacities, most
recently as President of MCC Companies, a mental health/substance abuse
subsidiary of CIGNA.
 



                              ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
                              -------------------

     As of December 31, 1994, the Company leased approximately 1,045,000
aggregate square feet of space for administrative offices in the greater
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota area, and for computer facilities and claims
processing centers in International Falls and Duluth, Minnesota and San Antonio,
Texas.  In connection with its operations outside of Minnesota and Texas, as of
December 31, 1994,  the Company leased 1,588,000 aggregate square feet of office
space and space for computer facilities and claims processing centers in the
various areas in which its health plans or managed care services specialty
programs operate. The Company's leases for office space, computer facilities and
claims processing centers expire at various dates through 2000.   As of December
31, 1994, the Company owned approximately 185,000 aggregate square feet of space
for administrative offices and its staff model clinic operations in Florida.

                           ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
                           --------------------------

     The Company is not a party to any material pending legal proceedings, other
than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business.  The Company is
periodically engaged in litigation concerning decisions made by its owned or
managed health plans and specialty managed care programs regarding benefit plan
coverage, and it may be subject to liability for adverse medical consequences,
particularly in its staff model health plans.

          ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ------------------------------------------------------------

     None.
 



                                    PART II

               ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
               --------------------------------------------------
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
                          ---------------------------


     The information contained under the heading "Investor Information" in the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1994, is incorporated herein by reference.


                        ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                        --------------------------------
                                        
     The information contained under the heading "Financial Highlights" in the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1994 is incorporated herein by reference.


                 ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                 ---------------------------------------------
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
                -----------------------------------------------

     The information contained under the heading "Financial Review" in the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

              ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
              ----------------------------------------------------

     The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Report of
Independent Public Accountants thereon appearing on pages 22 through 32 of the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1994 is incorporated herein by reference.

           ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ---------------------------------------------------------
                      ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                      -----------------------------------

     None.



 
                                    PART III

          ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
          ------------------------------------------------------------

     The information included under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 10, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.

     Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10K and Instruction 3 to item
401(b) of Regulation S-K, information as to executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K under separate caption.


                        ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                        --------------------------------

     The information included under the heading "Executive Compensation" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 10, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.

           ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
           ---------------------------------------------------------
                                 AND MANAGEMENT
                                 --------------

     The Information included under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 10, 1995, is incorporated
herein by reference.

            ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
            --------------------------------------------------------

     Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions
appearing under the heading "Certain Relationships and Transactions" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 10, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.



 
                                    PART IV

               ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
               -------------------------------------------------
                            AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                            -----------------------

(a)  1.   Financial Statements
          --------------------

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included
     in the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
     December 31, 1994 and are incorporated herein by reference:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and 1993.

     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Three Years Ended December
     31, 1994.

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the Three
     Years Ended December 31, 1994.

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended December
     31, 1994.

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Report of Independent Public Accountants.

(a)  2.   Financial Statement  Schedules
          ------------------------------

     None
             


 
(a)  3.   Exhibits
          --------





 



 



*  Denotes compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive
officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to Item
601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K
     -------------------

     The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of
     1994 and through March 17, 1995:

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 1994.
     The only item reported on this filing was Item 5 concerning the Company's
     announcement of its financial results for the quarter ended September 30,
     1994.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 3, 1995.  The
     only item reported on this filing was Item 2 concerning the Company's
     acquisition of GenCare Health Systems, Inc.  This filing was subsequently
     amended to include under Item 7 the Audited Consolidated Financial
     Statements of GenCare Health Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years
     ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 and pro forma condensed combining
     financial information for the year ended December 31, 1994.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 14, 1995.
     The only item reported on this filing was Item 5 concerning the Company's
     announcement of its financial results for the quarter and year ended
     December 31, 1994.

(c)  See Exhibits listed in Item 14 hereof and the Exhibits attached as a
     separate section of this Report.


 
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 28, 1995

                                    UNITED HEALTHCARE CORPORATION

                                    By: /s/ William W. McGuire, M.D.
                                        ----------------------------   
                                        William W. McGuire, M.D.
                                        Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





 



 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------




 




 




