
10-K
DOLLAR TREE 1999 FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

           ( X ) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999


                           Commission File No.0-25464

                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Virginia                            54-1387365
     (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
     Incorporation or organization)            Identification No.)

                     500 Volvo Parkway, Chesapeake, VA 23320
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (757) 321-5000

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
          Title of Each Class         Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
                None                                    None

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common Stock (par value $.01 per share)
                                (Title of Class)

     Indicate  by check  mark  whether  Registrant  (1) has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. (X)

     The aggregate  market value of Common Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant on March 10, 2000 was  $2,009,327,616  based on a $40.844  average of
the high and low sales prices for the Common Stock on such date. For purposes of
this  computation,  all executive  officers and directors have been deemed to be
affiliates. Such determination should not be deemed to be an admission that such
executive officers and directors are, in fact, affiliates of the Registrant.

     On March 10, 2000 there were 62,248,562  shares of the Registrant's  Common
Stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The information  called for in Part III is incorporated by reference to the
definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company
to be held May 25, 2000,  which will be filed with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission not later than April 30, 2000.





                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
                               

                                                                           Page
                                     PART I

Item 1.     BUSINESS.........................................................4

Item 2.     PROPERTIES.......................................................9

Item 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS...............................................10

Item 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.............10

                                    PART II

Item 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
              STOCKHOLDER MATTERS...........................................11

Item 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.........................................11

Item 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
              CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS...........................14

Item 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK......21

Item 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.....................23

Item 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
              ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE...........................41


                                    PART III

Item 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT..............41

Item 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION..........................................41

Item 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
              AND MANAGEMENT................................................41

Item 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS..................41


                                    PART IV

Item 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
              ON FORM 8-K...................................................41

            SIGNATURES......................................................42






A  WARNING   ABOUT  FORWARD   LOOKING   STATEMENTS:   This   document   contains
"forward-looking  statements"  as that  term is used in the  Private  Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements address future events,
developments and results.  They include  statements  preceded by, followed by or
including words such as "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "expect,"  "intend,"  "plan,"
"view" or  "estimate."  For  example,  our  forward-looking  statements  include
statements regarding:


     o    our  anticipated  comparable  store net  sales  and the  impact of our
          growth on total sales;

     o    our future operating costs such as wages and landlord costs (including
          rents and our ability to sublease our former distribution centers);

     o    the availability and cost of merchandise, including shipping costs;

     o    the reliability  and stability of our sources of supply,  particularly
          China;

     o    our growth strategy, including store openings and remodeling plans and
          entering new markets;

     o    the planned opening and performance of distribution centers;

     o    the anticipated consequences of the Year 2000 issue; and

     o    our expectations regarding competition, the overall retail environment
          and domestic and international economies.

     These   forward-looking   statements   are  subject  to   numerous   risks,
uncertainties and assumptions  potentially  affecting Dollar Tree, including the
factors  described  in  this  annual  report  under  the  headings   "Business,"
"Properties" and  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of Operations" as well as the factors listed under "Risk Factors" in
our most recent prospectus. They include, among other things:

     o    possible  difficulties  in meeting our expansion goals on a profitable
          basis, including anticipated store openings and expansions;

     o    adverse  economic factors and increases in costs,  including  possible
          increases in shipping  rates,  wage levels and  inflation and interest
          rates;

     o    risks  relating  to our  dependence  on imports and  vulnerability  to
          import tariffs and restrictions, particularly those regarding China;

     o    potentially   limited    availability   of   low-cost,    high-quality
          merchandise;

     o    possible  difficulties  in achieving our sales goals due to the effect
          of expansion,  seasonal  sales  fluctuations,  the  development of our
          larger format stores and changes in merchandise mix;

     o    the capacity and the  performance of our  distribution  system and its
          ability to cope with our expansion plans; and

     o    increasing competition in the discount retail market.

     Our  forward-looking  statements could be wrong in light of these and other
risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The future events, developments or results
described  in this  report or our most  recent  prospectus  could turn out to be
materially  different.  We have no obligation  to publicly  update or revise our
forward-looking  statements  after the date of this annual report and you should
not expect us to do so.

     Investors  should  also be  aware  that  while  we do,  from  time to time,
communicate  with securities  analysts,  it is against our policy to disclose to
them  any  material  nonpublic  information  or  other  confidential  commercial
information.  Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that we agree with any
statement  or report  issued by any  analyst  regardless  of the  content of the
statement or report. We also have a policy against issuing  financial  forecasts
or  projections or confirming  those issued by others.  Thus, to the extent that
reports  issued by securities  analysts  contain any  projections,  forecasts or
opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.




     INTRODUCTORY  NOTE: Unless otherwise stated,  references to "we," "our" and
"Dollar  Tree"  generally  refer to Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. and its direct and
indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

                                     PART I


Item 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

     Dollar Tree was started in 1986 by Macon  Brock,  our  President  and Chief
Executive Officer, Doug Perry, our Chairman, and Ray Compton, our Executive Vice
President.  We are the  leading  operator of discount  variety  stores  offering
merchandise  at a fixed  price  point of $1.00 or less.  We  operate  over 1,383
stores  in 33  states  and have  added  over 200  stores in each of the last two
years.

     Our stores  successfully  operate in major  metropolitan  areas,  mid-sized
cities and small  towns with  populations  under  25,000 and  perform  well in a
variety of locations.  We have  traditionally  opened stores  generally  between
3,500 and  6,000  total  square  feet in size,  stocking  a wide  assortment  of
products in many  traditional  variety store  categories.  During 1998, we began
testing  larger  stores in the 7,000 to 10,000  total  square foot range,  which
provides us the  opportunity  to target  prime  locations  with the larger store
size. In 2000, we will open stores generally in the 5,000 to 12,000 total square
foot range.

     In December 1998, we merged with 98 Cent Clearance Center, adding 66 stores
located in northern  and  central  California  and Nevada to our chain.  In June
1999,  we merged  with Only $One,  adding 24 stores to our chain in central  and
upstate New York.  These stores average 10,000 to 12,000 total square feet.

Business Strategy

     We are the leader in the $1.00 price point  segment of the discount  retail
industry. Factors contributing to our success include:

     Value Offering. We strive to exceed customers'  expectations of the variety
and quality of products  that can be purchased  for $1.00.  Many of the items we
sell for $1.00 are  typically  sold for higher prices  elsewhere.  We purchase a
substantial  portion  of  our  products  directly  from  foreign  manufacturers,
allowing us to pass on  additional  value to the customer.  In addition,  direct
relationships with both domestic and foreign manufacturers permit us to select a
broad product range,  customize  packaging and frequently  obtain larger product
sizes and higher package quantities.

     Convenient,  Highly Visible Store Locations.  We locate our stores close to
where we believe our core customer resides.  Although our customer tends to be a
female with children in a middle income household, we attract customers from all
demographic  ranges,  including low and high income households.  We believe that
bright lighting and the store's "curb appeal" attract new customers,  as well as
our repeat  customers,  and enhance our image as both a destination and impulse,
treasure hunt store.

     Strong and  Consistent  Store Level  Economics.  Since 1994,  stores opened
under the Dollar  Tree name have been  profitable  within the first full year of
operation.  Our stores,  whose first full year of  operation  was 1999,  have an
average store level operating  income of approximately  $195,000  (approximately
22% of net sales).

     Cost  Control.  Given our fixed  $1.00  price  structure,  we must  monitor
expenses,  inventory levels and operating  margins to be successful.  We closely
manage  both retail  inventory  shrinkage  and retail  markdowns  of  inventory,
limiting  each to an  average of not more than 2.5% of annual net sales over the
last five years. In the past five years, excluding merger related items, we have
kept our gross  profit  margins in the 35.9% to 37.7%  range and  increased  our
operating income margin from 10.8% to 13.6%.

Growth Strategy

     For the five years  ended  December  31,  1999,  net sales  increased  at a
compound  annual growth rate of 33.2% and  operating  income,  excluding  merger
related items, increased at a compound annual growth rate of 41.2%. Future sales
growth will come  primarily  from new store  openings  and, to a lesser  degree,
sales  increases  from expanded and relocated  stores and  comparable  store net
sales increases.  We anticipate  expanding by approximately 225 to 235 stores in
2000.  While a portion of our store openings in 2000 are planned to occur in the
West, our



store openings  continue to be concentrated  within our existing eastern markets
to take advantage of market opportunities,  distribution  efficiencies and field
management efficiencies. We also plan to selectively enter new markets.

     We plan to increase our store expansion and relocation program. In 1999, we
expanded or  relocated  59 stores  and,  in 2000,  we plan to expand or relocate
approximately  100 additional  stores.  We target  existing stores for expansion
based on the current sales per square foot and changes in market opportunities.

     Our growth strategy  includes the opening of new  distribution  centers and
the expansion or  replacement  of existing  distribution  centers.  We currently
operate four distribution centers. Two of these can be physically  expanded--the
facilities in Olive Branch,  Mississippi and Stockton,  California. In addition,
the Stockton facility can be fully automated when the store demand requires.  We
are  currently  constructing  a  new  600,000  square  foot,  leased,  automated
distribution  facility in Savannah,  Georgia which we expect to begin  operating
during the first quarter of 2001. See more  information on distribution  centers
in "Merchandise Receiving and Distribution" on page 7.

     We have  experienced  significant  sales  growth  over the last five years.
Managing our growth has become more complex  because we are now  operating in 33
states  from  coast to  coast.  Our  sales  growth  depends  on our  ability  to
aggressively  and steadily add stores and store support  systems in a profitable
and  efficient  manner.  Management  believes  that we are  well  positioned  to
accomplish  these  tasks,  but we may not  achieve  our  targets for opening new
stores, and we may not expand profitably and efficiently.  As we expand, we will
face challenges that may be difficult to manage, and others that may be entirely
controlled by outside economic  factors.  We must supply an increasing number of
stores with the proper mix and amount of  merchandise.  This will require hiring
an increasing number of qualified  employees,  opening suitable store sites, and
expanding  and  upgrading our  distribution  centers and internal  store support
systems.  Failure to achieve these goals in a timely and economical manner could
have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

     In the past four years, we have made three large  acquisitions and a number
of smaller  acquisitions  which added 239 stores.  Our acquisition  strategy has
been to target  companies  with a similar  single price point  concept that have
shown  success in operations or provide some  strategic  advantage.  We look for
opportunities to leverage our management  expertise in merchandise  procurement,
logistics,  management  information  systems,  and in  managing  growth  thereby
significantly improving the acquired company. Reviewing the operating strategies
of the  acquired  companies  has also  enabled  us to  improve  our  operations.
Although we do not have any current plans regarding potential  acquisitions,  we
continuously evaluate opportunities in our retail sector.

     Inherent  in  our  growth  strategy  is  the  constant  evaluation  of  our
infrastructure  needs in  people,  processes  and  systems.  Over the past three
years, we have:

     o    increased our efforts in recruiting and training;

     o    improved human resource and merchandising functions;

     o    added buying and real estate infrastructure; and

     o    increased our top management expertise.

     During this period of growth, we feel we have made appropriate  investments
while containing costs and improving  operating margins. We will continue making
future  investments to improve our supply chain and decision making processes in
order to achieve our target growth rate.

Site Selection and Store Locations

     We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection,
favoring strip centers and selected  enclosed  malls. In the last five years, we
have opened  primarily  strip center based  stores.  These stores have  required
lower initial capital  investment and generated  higher  operating  margins than
mall stores. We prefer opening new stores in strip center locations  anchored by
strong mass  merchandisers  such as  Wal-Mart,  Kmart and Target,  whose  target
customers  are  similar to ours.  We also open  stores in  neighborhood  centers
anchored by large grocery  retailers.  Our stores have been  successful in major
metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns. We believe that our stores
have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to concentrate multiple
stores  in a  single  market  profitably.  Our  ability  to open new  stores  is
dependent  upon,  among other factors,  locating  suitable sites and negotiating
favorable lease terms.



     The  size  of our  stores  has  evolved  over  time  from  a  predominantly
mall-based  store,  averaging  2,500 to 3,000  total  square  feet,  in the late
1980's,  to a predominantly  strip shopping center based store of  approximately
4,500 to 5,000 total square feet in more recent years. In the past two years, we
have opened  larger size  stores,  primarily in the 7,000 to 10,000 total square
foot range.  The range of store sizes provides us with an important  opportunity
to target a particular  location with the  appropriate  store size.  Although we
characterize  a 7,000  square  foot store as  "larger,"  these  stores are still
regarded as "small box"  retailing  within the  discount  retail  industry.  Our
management does not view these stores as a departure from our core business.

     Including stores added by merger or acquisition,  approximately  10% of our
store base at the end of 1999 is greater than 7,000 total square feet per store.
We expect to open 90 to 100 of these larger stores during 2000, primarily in the
8,000 to  12,000  total  square  foot  range.  For more  information  on  retail
locations and retail store leases, see "Properties" on page 9.

Merchandising and Store Format

     We offer a wide assortment of products which exceed  customer  expectations
of the value available for $1.00 by:

     o    providing  a balanced  mix of  everyday  core  products  and  changing
          selections in traditional variety store categories;

     o    maintaining a disciplined, global purchasing program; and

     o    emphasizing the effective display of merchandise in our stores.

     Merchandise  Mix.  Our stores  offer a well  stocked  selection of core and
changing products within traditional variety store categories.  These categories
include  housewares,  candy and food,  seasonal  goods,  health and beauty care,
toys, party goods, gifts,  stationery and other consumer items. The actual items
and  brands  offered  at any one time will  vary.  We have a core  selection  of
consumable products (such as household chemicals,  paper and plastics, candy and
food, and health and beauty care) which we target to have in stock at our stores
continuously.   These  products  are  generally  available   year-round  in  our
distribution facilities for stores to reorder as needed. Our larger stores carry
more consumable  products than our smaller stores,  particularly food and health
and beauty care products. Because of the added space in the large stores, we can
also display a larger selection of certain items.

     We sell  seasonal  and  impulse  items and, to a limited  extent,  selected
closeout merchandise to add variety and freshness to our core products. Seasonal
goods include Easter gifts, summer toys,  back-to-school  products and Christmas
wrapping paper.  When the  opportunity  arises,  we offer closeout  merchandise,
whose value creates an exciting shopping experience for our customers.  However,
in order  to  maintain  our  disciplined  approach  to  merchandising,  we limit
closeout  merchandise  to less than 20% of our  purchases.  We also  sell  lower
priced, private label goods, which are comparable to national name brands.

     Purchasing.   Our  excellent  supplier   relationships,   as  well  as  our
substantial buying power at the $1.00 price point,  contribute to our successful
purchasing  strategy.  We offer real product  value to our  customers  that they
recognize and appreciate.  At the same time, we establish disciplined,  targeted
merchandise margin goals.

     We  purchase  merchandise  from  a  large  number  of  vendors,   including
manufacturers,  trading companies and brokers. No vendor accounted for more than
10% of total  merchandise  purchased in any of the last five years.  New vendors
are used frequently to offer competitive, yet varied, product selection and high
levels of value.

     We buy product on an  order-by-order  basis and have no long-term  purchase
contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed  product
cost.  Management believes that an adequate supply of quality merchandise suited
to a $1.00 sales price will continue to be available.

     Imports.  Merchandise  imported  directly from overseas  manufacturers  and
agents accounts for approximately 40% to 45% of total purchases at retail. China
is the primary source for our import  merchandise.  In addition,  our management
believes that a small portion of the non-consumable  goods that we purchase from
domestic vendors is imported.  While we do not expect to significantly  increase
imports as a percentage of our  merchandise,  our future success  depends on the
continuing availability of imported merchandise at favorable costs.

     Chinese goods  imported into the United States  currently  enjoy  favorable
duties because the United States grants China normal trade  relations,  formerly
called "most favored nation" status.  Under a 1974 law, China's  favorable trade
status is reviewed on an annual basis and is



currently extended through July 2, 2000. In November 1999, the United States and
China finalized an agreement  concerning  China's future membership in the World
Trade Organization.  President Clinton has asked Congress to remove normal trade
relations  with  China  from  annual  review.  However,  there  continues  to be
significant  political  opposition  to the  permanent  extension of normal trade
relations with China. The opposition  stems from a variety of issues,  including
China's  trade surplus with the United  States,  its failure to open its markets
adequately  to U.S.  businesses,  its  relations  with Taiwan,  its human rights
record and its acquisition and sale of weapons and sensitive technology. Failure
to renew  normal trade  relations  could have a material  adverse  effect on our
business  and  results of  operations.  For  example,  administration  officials
testified in June 1999 that ending normal trade relations with China would raise
tariffs on Chinese products from their current overall trade-weighted average of
4% to an  estimated  44%.  Depending  on the extent of tariffs and the nature of
goods affected,  such an increase could impose  significantly  higher purchasing
costs on our company.

     Even if normal trade relations do become permanent, the United States could
also impose  punitive trade sanctions on Chinese goods for a variety of reasons.
In 1995,  the United  States  threatened  to impose  punitive  trade  tariffs on
certain  categories of Chinese  goods in response to China's  failure to protect
the  intellectual  property of U.S.  businesses.  The  November  1999  agreement
between the United States and China permits  punitive  tariffs and other tariffs
designed to reduce  market  disruptions  because of a large  increase in Chinese
imports.  Although no punitive import duties are currently imposed, these duties
could equal as much as 100% of the cost of certain Chinese goods.  Imposition of
trade   restrictions,   such  as  punitive  tariffs  or  duties,   could  impose
significantly  higher  purchasing costs on us, depending on which goods might be
affected.

     While  imported  goods  are less  expensive  than  domestic  goods and have
contributed   significantly  to  our  historically   favorable  profit  margins,
importing presents  significant  risks. For example,  the flow of imported goods
could be interrupted,  or the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise
could increase.  In the event Chinese or other imported merchandise becomes more
expensive  or  unavailable,  we  believe we could  find  alternative  sources of
supply.  However, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to
meet our demands.  Products  from  alternative  sources  could also be of lesser
quality  and more  expensive  than those we  currently  import.  As a result,  a
disruption  in the flow of  imported  merchandise  or an increase in the cost of
those goods could have a material  adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.

     Visual  Merchandising.  The  presentation and display of merchandise in our
stores is critical to communicating  value and excitement to our customers.  Our
stores  are  attractively  designed.  They  create an  inviting  atmosphere  for
shoppers by using bright lighting,  vibrant colors,  uniform  decorative  signs,
carpeting  and  background  music.  Our  merchandise  fixtures  include  gondola
shelving,  slat walls,  bins,  and  adjustable  gift  displays,  allowing us the
flexibility to rearrange merchandise to feature seasonal products. Some of these
fixtures have been  specifically  designed for us, such as the customized  shelf
display  promoting  our  polyresin  and  porcelain  gift  products.   Our  field
merchandising  group,  including regional merchandise managers and store display
coordinators,   maintains  a  consistent  visual   presentation  of  merchandise
throughout  our  chain of  stores.  We rely on  attractive  exterior  signs  and
in-store merchandising for our advertising.  We generally do not use other forms
of advertising, except when promoting the opening of a new store.

     The wide variety,  value and freshness of our merchandise together with the
lively  appearance of the store create an exciting  shopping  experience for our
customers. These unique features result in high store traffic, high sales volume
and an environment which encourages  impulse  purchases.  Credit and debit cards
are accepted at a select number of stores and checks are accepted at all stores.

     During  1999,  we converted  the 98 Cent  Clearance  Center  stores to more
closely resemble existing Dollar Tree stores,  including changing the store name
to Dollar Tree. During the first quarter of 2000, we will convert most of the 24
Only $One stores added in 1999. These  conversions  will include  installing new
checkouts  and display  fixtures and  improving  store  layouts and  merchandise
displays at all Only $One stores and  changing the name from Only $One to Dollar
Tree at select stores.

Merchandise Receiving And Distribution

     Merchandise  receiving  and  distribution  are managed  centrally  from our
corporate  headquarters,  located on the same site as our  Chesapeake,  Virginia
distribution  center.  Maintaining a strong receiving and distribution system is
critical  to  our  expansion  and  ability  to  maintain  a low  cost  operating
structure.




     Substantially  all of our  inventory is shipped or picked up directly  from
suppliers  and  delivered to our  distribution  centers,  where the inventory is
processed and then  distributed to our stores.  The majority of our inventory is
delivered to the stores by contract carriers. Stores receive weekly shipments of
merchandise  from  distribution  centers  based on their  anticipated  inventory
requirements for that week. We also make semi-weekly  deliveries to certain high
volume stores and during the busy Christmas season.

     Our distribution center capacity allows us to receive  manufacturers' early
shipment  discounts and buy large  quantities of goods at favorable  prices.  In
addition,  during the past several  years we have used  off-site  facilities  to
accommodate  large  receipts of seasonal  merchandise.  For more  information on
distribution centers, see "Properties" on page 9.

Competition

     The retail industry is highly  competitive.  Our  competitors  include mass
merchandisers  (such as  Wal-Mart),  discount  stores (such as Dollar  General),
closeout  stores (such as Odd Lots and Big Lots) and other  variety  stores.  In
past  years,  other  single  price  point  retailers  have not been  significant
competitors.  However,  we  expect  that  our  expansion  plans  as  well as the
expansion  plans of other  single  price point  retailers  such as 99 Cents Only
Stores based in Southern  California and Dollar  Express based in  Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania  will bring us  increasingly  into  direct  competition.  Increased
competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, comparable store
net sales and results of operations.

Trademarks

     We are the owners of Federal service mark  registrations for "Dollar Tree,"
the "Dollar Tree" logo, "1 Dollar Tree"  together with the related  design,  and
"One Price . . . One  Dollar." A small  number of our stores  operate  under the
name  "Only  One  Dollar,"  for  which  we have  not  obtained  a  service  mark
registration;  if we were required to change the name of these stores, we do not
believe that this would have a material adverse effect on our business.  We also
own a  concurrent  use  registration  for "Dollar  Bill$" and the related  logo.
During  1997,  we  acquired  the rights to use trade names  previously  owned by
Everything's A Dollar,  a former  competitor in the $1.00 price point  industry.
Several  trade  names  were  included  in  the  purchase,  including  the  marks
"Everything's   $1.00  We  Mean  Everything"  and   "Everything's   $1.00,"  the
registration  of which is  pending,  and "The Dollar  Store." In 1998,  with the
acquisition  of 98 Cent  Clearance  Center,  we became  the owner of  additional
Federal service mark registrations which include "98 Cent Clearance Centers" and
"98 Cent Clearance  Centers" together with the related design. In 1999, with the
acquisition of the Only $One stores,  we became the owner of additional  Federal
service  mark  registrations  which  include  Only One $1  stylized  "Only $One"
together  with the related  design.  We also  occasionally  use various  private
labels under which we market products,  although  management believes that these
brand names are not material to our operations.

Seasonality

     Dollar  Tree has  historically  experienced  and  expects  to  continue  to
experience  seasonal  fluctuations  in its net sales,  operating  income and net
income.  See "Management's  Discussion and  Analysis--Seasonality  and Quarterly
Fluctuations" on page 20.

Employees

     We employed  approximately 5,000 full-time and 13,000 part-time  associates
on December 31, 1999. The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on
seasonal  needs.  None of our  associates  are currently  represented by a labor
union. The Teamsters have attempted to organize our associates at our Chesapeake
and Chicago distribution centers on several occasions,  and we expect them to do
so in the future.  We consider our relationship  with associates to be good, and
we have not  experienced  significant  interruptions  of operations due to labor
disagreements.



Item 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of  December  31,  1999,  we  operated  1,383  stores in 33 states.  The
following  table presents a summary of our historical unit growth by region over
the past three years (number represents stores open as of the date indicated):

                                                    December 31,
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                      1999              1998             1997
                                      ----              ----             ----

     Southeast....................     466               415              351
     Midwest......................     362               309              256
     Mid-Atlantic.................     258               230              196
     Southcentral.................     121                68               47
     Northeast ...................      99                91               57
     West.........................      77                66               59
                                     -----             -----            -----

      Total.......................   1,383             1,179              966
                                     =====             =====            =====

     Of the 1,383 stores open at December 31, 1999,  the majority are located in
the  Southeastern  and Midwestern  regions of the United  States.  We anticipate
expanding by approximately 225 to 235 stores in 2000.

     We currently  lease all of our existing store locations and expect that our
policy of leasing  rather than owning  stores  will  continue as we expand.  Our
leases  typically  provide for a short initial lease term and give us the option
to extend. Management believes that this lease strategy enhances our flexibility
to pursue various expansion and relocation opportunities resulting from changing
market conditions. Our ability to open new stores is contingent upon:

     o    finding, signing leases for, building-out improvements for and opening
          suitable  store  sites on a timely  basis  and on  favorable  economic
          terms, including both in new geographic markets, where we have limited
          or no experience, and in our established geographic markets, where new
          stores may draw sales away from our existing stores; and

     o    hiring,  training  and  retaining  an  increasing  number of qualified
          employees at affordable rates of compensation.

     As current leases expire,  we believe that we will be able either to obtain
lease renewals, if desired, for present store locations, or to obtain leases for
equivalent  or better  locations in the same general  area. To date, we have not
experienced  difficulty  in either  renewing  leases for  existing  locations or
securing  leases for suitable  locations  for new stores.  We may have  violated
prohibitions  against a change in  control of Dollar  Tree in a minority  of our
leases.  Many of our leases  contain  provisions  with  which we do not  comply,
including  provisions  requiring  us to  advertise  or  insure  store  property,
prohibiting  us from  operating  another  store  within a  specified  radius and
restricting the sale of leasehold improvements. We believe that the violation of
these  provisions  will not have a material  adverse  effect on our  business or
financial position because we maintain good relations with our landlords, and we
are a  valued  tenant.  Most of our  leases  are at  market  rents,  and we have
historically been able to secure leases for suitable locations.

     The following table includes  information  about the  distribution  centers
that we  currently  operate.  We believe our existing  distribution  centers can
support a total of  approximately  $1.7  billion in sales.  The table  shows the
location of those distribution centers; whether we own the facility or lease it,
and, if leased,  when the lease expires;  and the overall size in square feet of
the facility.

                                                                       Size in
Location                        Own/Lease       Lease Expires        Square Feet
- --------                        ---------       -------------        -----------
Chesapeake, Virginia               Own               N/A               400,000

Olive Branch, Mississippi          Own               N/A               425,000

Chicago, Illinois area            Lease        June 2005, with         250,000
                                               options to renew

Stockton, California              Lease        June 2004, with         317,000
                                               options to renew





     We have also signed a contract to lease a 600,000 square foot  distribution
center being constructed in Savannah,  Georgia. We believe this facility,  along
with our  existing  distribution  centers,  will  support  sales of more than $2
billion.  We expect  this  distribution  center to be  operational  in the first
quarter of 2001 and its lease expires in January 2005 with options to renew.

     The  Chesapeake  and Olive Branch  distribution  centers  contain,  and the
Savannah   distribution   center  will  contain,   advanced  materials  handling
technologies,    including   an   automated   conveyor   and   sorting   system,
radio-frequency   inventory  tracking  equipment  and  specialized   information
systems. The Chicago and Stockton  distribution  centers are not automated,  but
the Stockton distribution center is designed to allow for future automation.

     Our Store  Support  Center in  Chesapeake  was built in 1997 to replace our
original location in Norfolk, Virginia. The lease on our former Norfolk location
expires in December 2009 and the facility has been  subleased  through  February
2008. The distribution center in Olive Branch became operational in January 1999
and replaced a former  location in Memphis,  Tennessee.  The lease on our former
Memphis  distribution  center  expires  in  September  2005;  this  facility  is
currently  subleased through December 2000. The distribution  center in Stockton
became  operational  in  January  2000 and  replaced  a former  location  in the
Sacramento,  California  area. The lease on our former  Sacramento  distribution
center  expires in June 2008;  we hope to sublease  this facility in the future.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis--Inflation and Other Economic Factors"
on page 20.


Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Alper  Lawsuit.  On January 31, 1996, we bought all of the capital stock of
Dollar Bills,  Inc. pursuant to a stock purchase  agreement.  In March and April
1996, Michael and Pamela Alper,  former  shareholders of Dollar Bills,  together
with a corporation they control,  filed lawsuits in the state and federal courts
in Illinois against our company and one of our employees, relating to the Dollar
Bills transaction.  The lawsuits sought to recover  compensatory  damages of not
less than $10.0 million, punitive damages, attorney's fees and other relief. The
plaintiffs  claimed  contract  violations,  fraud,  misrepresentation  and other
violations in connection  with our purchase of the  wholesale  operations  which
were owned by Dollar Bills and are currently operated by Dollar Tree. Plaintiffs
subsequently  dismissed their suit in state court  voluntarily.  On November 26,
1996, the federal court dismissed all counts of the plaintiffs'  lawsuit against
us and the co-defendant.  Plaintiffs'  federal  securities and federal antitrust
claims  against us were  dismissed  with  prejudice  and the state  claims  were
dismissed  without  prejudice.  No litigation is currently pending against us in
this matter.  However,  in light of the history of this dispute,  the Alpers may
attempt to refile  their  state law claims in the  future.  We believe  that the
ultimate  outcome of this matter will not have a material  adverse effect on our
financial  condition  or results of  operations.  Nevertheless,  there can be no
assurance regarding the ultimate outcome of any future litigation,  and any such
litigation  may have a material  adverse  effect on our  financial  condition or
results of operations.

     Consumer Products Liability.  We recalled (in cooperation with the Consumer
Products Safety Commission)  approximately 155,000 retractable dog leashes which
we sold between  November  1997 and January  1998.  We learned of several  minor
injuries  involving  the  leashes,  and one  leash  allegedly  caused a  serious
personal  injury in January 1998.  Our insurer  settled with that  individual in
1999 at no cost to Dollar  Tree.  Management  does not  believe  that  potential
claims arising from product  injuries will have a material adverse effect on us.
However, we can give no assurance that additional serious injuries from products
we have sold will not occur in the future.

     Additional Disputes.  We are also defendants to ordinary routine litigation
and proceedings incidental to our business,  including certain matters which may
occasionally  be asserted by the Consumer  Products  Safety  Commission.  We are
currently in the process of recalling three products. We do not believe that any
of these additional matters are individually or in the aggregate material to the
Company.


Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders during the fourth
quarter of our 1999 calendar year.




                                     PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Dollar  Tree's  common stock has been traded on The Nasdaq Stock  Market(R)
under the symbol "DLTR" since our initial public  offering on March 6, 1995. The
following  table  gives the high and low sales  prices  of our  common  stock as
reported  by Nasdaq for the  periods  indicated,  restated  to reflect a 3-for-2
stock split effected as a stock dividend in June 1998.

            1999:                                      High          Low
            -----                                      ----          ---
         First Quarter...........................    $ 49.250     $ 30.750
         Second Quarter..........................      44.000       28.750
         Third Quarter...........................      46.500       32.500
         Fourth Quarter..........................      52.250       34.500

            1998:
            -----
         First Quarter...........................    $ 36.083     $ 23.000
         Second Quarter..........................      41.917       33.417
         Third Quarter...........................      49.500       27.875
         Fourth Quarter..........................      48.750       23.750

     On March 10,  2000,  the last  reported  sale price for our common stock as
quoted  by  Nasdaq  was  $40.063  per  share.  As of  March  10,  2000,  we  had
approximately 460 shareholders of record.

     We  anticipate  that all of our income in the  foreseeable  future  will be
retained for the  development and expansion of our business and the repayment of
indebtedness.  Management  does not  anticipate  paying  dividends on our common
stock in the foreseeable  future.  Additionally,  our credit facilities  contain
financial covenants which restrict our ability to pay dividends.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     This section of our report  presents our  selected  financial  data for the
last five years. This information is different from the information  reported in
the table in our 1998  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  because we merged  with Only
$One during 1999. We accounted  for the merger as a pooling of interests,  which
required us to combine  the  financial  statements  of Dollar Tree with those of
Only $One, retroactively.

     The  selected  income  statement  and balance  sheet items for December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997 come from our  consolidated  financial  statements that have
been audited by our independent  certified public accountants.  This information
should be read in conjunction  with the  consolidated  financial  statements and
related notes,  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and other financial  information  found elsewhere in this
report.








Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Introduction

     In Management's  Discussion and Analysis,  we explain our general financial
condition and results of operations, including:

     o    what factors affect our business;

     o    what our earnings and costs were for the years 1999, 1998, and 1997;

     o    why earnings and costs in 1999 and 1998 were  different  from the year
          before;

     o    where our earnings come from;

     o    how all of this affects our overall financial condition;

     o    what our  expenditures  for capital  projects were in 1999,  1998, and
          1997 and what we expect them to be in 2000; and

     o    where funds will come from to pay for future expenditures.

     We merged with 98 Cent Clearance Center in December 1998 and with Only $One
in June  1999.  We  accounted  for  each  of  these  mergers  as a  "pooling  of
interests." Under this form of accounting,  we combined the financial statements
of Dollar Tree with those of 98 Cent  Clearance  Center and Only $One,  not only
since  the  dates of the  mergers,  but also  retroactively.  As a  result,  all
financial  data,  information,  and  discussion  assumes that 98 Cent  Clearance
Center and Only $One had each been a part of Dollar  Tree  throughout  all years
discussed.  For each period presented,  the outstanding 98 Cent Clearance Center
and Only $One shares have been  converted  into Dollar Tree shares  based on the
exchange  ratios used in each merger.  This has the effect of changing our prior
net income per share calculations.

Key Events and Recent Developments

     Several key events have had or are expected to have a significant effect on
our results of operations.  When reading  Management's  Discussion and Analysis,
you should keep in mind that:

     o    In January 2000, we signed a contract to enter into an operating lease
          for a new 600,000  square  foot  distribution  center,  which is being
          constructed  in Savannah,  Georgia.  We plan to have this  facility in
          operation in the first quarter of 2001.

     o    Also in January 2000, we opened a new 317,000 square foot distribution
          center  in  Stockton,   California,  which  replaced  our  Sacramento,
          California facility.

     o    In June  1999,  we  completed  our merger  with Only  $One.  We issued
          501,600  shares of our common stock to the former owners of Only $One.
          Only $One operated 24 stores in central and upstate New York.

     o    In January  1999,  we opened a new 425,000  square  foot  distribution
          center in Olive  Branch,  Mississippi,  which  replaced  our  Memphis,
          Tennessee facility.

     o    In December  1998,  we  completed  our merger  with 98 Cent  Clearance
          Center.  We reserved or issued  approximately  2,152,000 shares of our
          common stock for 98 Cent Clearance Center's existing  shareholders and
          its option  holders.  98 Cent Clearance  Center  operated 66 stores in
          northern and central California and Nevada.

     o    In January  1996,  we acquired a  corporation  owning 136 Dollar Bills
          stores for $54.6 million in cash and inventory.

Results of Operations

     In this section,  we discuss our 1999 and 1998  operations  and the factors
affecting  them.  Our net sales result from the sale of  merchandise.  Two major
factors tend to affect our net sales trends. First is our success at opening new
stores or adding new stores through mergers or  acquisitions.  Second,  sales at
our  existing  stores  change  from one year to the next.  We refer to this as a
change in  "comparable  store net sales,"  because we compare  only those stores
which are open for the entire two years being compared.




     Most retailers can increase the price of their  merchandise as well as sell
more  merchandise in order to increase their  comparable  store net sales.  As a
fixed price point retailer,  we do not have the ability to raise our prices. Our
comparable store net sales increase only if we sell more  merchandise.  In 1999,
however, we increased the price point in the sixty-six 98 Cent Clearance Centers
from $0.98 to $1.00, which had a minor impact on our comparable store net sales.
We believe that our future comparable store net sales increases, if any, will be
lower than those we have  experienced  in the past.  Our internal  business plan
continues to call for a 2% to 3% increase in comparable store net sales in 2000,
with some  reduction  in the first  quarter of 2000  because the Easter  holiday
shopping season shifts to the second quarter.

     We anticipate  that our future sales growth will come mostly from new store
openings.  We plan to expand by 225 to 235  stores in 2000.  We also  expect our
average  store  size to  increase  in 2000,  which we believe  will  result in a
decrease in our net sales per square foot.

     Increases in expenses could impact our operating  results  negatively since
we  cannot  pass on  increased  expenses  to our  customers  by  increasing  our
merchandise price. Consequently, our future success depends in large part on our
ability to control costs.

     The following  table  expresses  certain of our expenses as a percentage of
net sales:


1999 Compared to 1998

     Net Sales.  Net sales  increased  26.9% to  $1,198.0  million for 1999 from
$944.1  million  for 1998.  We  attribute  this $253.9  million  increase to two
factors:

     o    Approximately 81% of the increase came primarily from stores opened in
          1999 and 1998,  which are not  included  in our  comparable  store net
          sales calculation.

     o    Approximately 19% of the increase came from comparable store net sales
          growth. Comparable store net sales increased 5.6% during 1999.

     Because our  products  sell for a fixed price,  the increase in  comparable
store net sales was entirely a result of an increase in the number of items sold
in the stores  included in the  calculation.  We believe net sales  increased in
comparable stores because:

     o    We improved the quality and mix of merchandise, with a slightly higher
          emphasis on consumable products.

     o    Throughout  1999,  we  changed  the  merchandise  mix at  the 98  Cent
          Clearance  Center  stores  to  more  closely  resemble  the mix at our
          existing Dollar Tree stores.

     o    We benefited from expanding and relocating existing stores,  which are
          included in the comparable store net sales calculation.

     o    Customers  purchased  a  higher  average  number  of  items  and  more
          customers visited our stores.




     We opened 208 new stores and closed four stores  during  1999,  compared to
220 new stores  opened and seven stores closed the previous  year.  The new 1999
stores  include four that we acquired  from a small dollar  store  operator.  We
added 24.2% to our total  square  footage in 1999  compared  to adding  27.5% in
1998.

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit  increased  $97.3 million,  or 27.5% in 1999 as
compared to 1998.  Our gross profit  expressed  as a percentage  of net sales is
called our "gross profit margin." Our gross profit margin  increased to 37.7% in
1999 from 37.5% in 1998.  This increase  occurred mainly because of a decline in
certain  costs as a percentage of net sales offset by increases in certain costs
as a percentage of sales:

     o    Our  increased  sales  volume  provided   greater  buying  power  with
          merchandise  vendors.  We also experienced  lower overall  merchandise
          costs   resulting  from  an  increase  in  the  percentage  of  import
          merchandise.

     o    Our  distribution  costs were lower as a result of efficiencies at our
          Chesapeake and Olive Branch distribution centers.

     o    We  experienced  higher  freight  costs because of the increase in the
          trans-Pacific shipping rates.  Management estimates that the impact of
          these higher  shipping rates was  approximately  $5.0 million in 1999.
          See "Inflation and Other Economic Factors" on page 20.

     In 1999,  we  purchased a slightly  higher  percentage  of  imports,  which
generally  cost less than domestic  product,  and these goods improved our gross
profit margin for the year. In 2000, we intend to buy more consumable  products,
such as food and household  chemicals,  to meet  customer  demand and supply our
larger store format. Consumable products are generally domestically produced and
carry a higher cost than imports.  Management  expects the changing  merchandise
mix will result in a slight reduction in gross profit margin in 2000.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative   Expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses increased $55.3 million,  or 23.7%, in 1999 compared to
1998. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses
decreased to 24.1% in 1999 compared to 24.7% in 1998.  Excluding  merger related
expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage
of net  sales to 24.0% in 1999  from  24.3%  in  1998.  This  decrease  happened
primarily  because our  comparable  store net sales  allowed us to leverage  our
fixed costs.  Depreciation and amortization increased $7.6 million, to 2.3% as a
percentage of net sales in 1999 from 2.2% in 1998. This  percentage  increase is
mainly the result of depreciation related to the Olive Branch facility.

     During  1999,  we  recorded a $1.3  million  loss  contingency  in selling,
general and  administrative  expenses due to our uncertainty about being able to
sublease our  Sacramento  facility for an amount that would cover our  remaining
payments.  During 1998, we recorded a $1.1 million loss  contingency in selling,
general and  administrative  expenses  because we were not certain that we could
sublease  our Memphis  facility  for an amount  that would  cover our  remaining
payments. The Memphis facility experienced favorable developments in 1999, which
reduced the loss  contingency  approximately  $0.7 million.  See  "Inflation and
Other Economic Factors" on page 20.

     Operating Income.  Our operating income increased $42.0 million,  or 34.9%,
in 1999 as compared to 1998.  As a  percentage  of net sales,  operating  income
increased to 13.6% in 1999 compared to 12.8% in 1998.  Excluding  merger related
items,  operating income increased to $163.5 million in 1999 from $125.7 million
in 1998 and  increased as a percentage  of net sales to 13.6% from 13.3%.  These
increases were attributable to our improved gross profit margin and the decrease
in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
discussed above.

     Interest  Income/Expense.  Interest expense  decreased $0.4 million to $4.5
million  in 1999 from $4.9  million  in 1998.  Interest  income  increased  $1.1
million to $1.7  million  in 1999 from $0.6  million in 1998.  The  increase  in
interest  income and the decrease in interest  expense each  resulted from lower
levels of debt in 1999 compared to 1998, creating a higher cash position in 1999
compared to 1998.

1998 Compared to 1997

     Net Sales. Net sales increased 26.6% to $944.1 million for 1998 from $745.6
million for 1997. We attribute this $198.5 million increase to two factors:

     o    Approximately 80% of the increase came primarily from stores opened in
          1998 and 1997,  which are not  included  in our  comparable  store net
          sales calculation.




     o    Approximately 20% of the increase came from comparable store net sales
          growth.  Comparable  store net sales  increased 6.8% during 1998. This
          comparable  store  net  sales  calculation  includes  sales at 98 Cent
          Clearance  Center stores for the 11-month  periods ended  December 31,
          1998 and December 31, 1997.

     We   believe net sales increased in comparable stores because:

     o    We stocked a more  consistent  quantity of consumable  products during
          the first half of 1998.

     o    Customers  purchased  a  higher  average  number  of  items,  and more
          customers visited our stores.

     o    The  number of days in the Easter  selling  season  increased  because
          Easter shifted to April 12 in 1998 from March 30 in 1997.

     o    We continued to improve the quality and variety of merchandise offered
          in our stores.

     We opened 220 new stores and closed seven stores  during 1998,  compared to
166 new stores  opened and one store closed the previous  year. We acquired nine
of the new stores in 1998 from two small dollar store operators.

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit  increased $82.8 million,  or 30.5%, in 1998 as
compared to 1997. Our gross profit margin  increased to 37.5% in 1998 from 36.3%
in 1997. If you exclude merger related costs otherwise included in cost of sales
(related to merchandise markdowns),  the gross profit margin increased to 37.6%.
This increase  occurred mainly because certain costs declined as a percentage of
net sales:

     o    Our  increased   sales  volume  gave  us  greater  buying  power  with
          merchandise  vendors,  which in turn  lowered our overall  merchandise
          costs  expressed  as a  percentage  of  net  sales.  We  believe  that
          favorable  foreign currency rates had only a minor effect on the lower
          cost of our imported goods.

     o    We imported a higher percentage of our goods.

     o    We experienced  lower occupancy costs expressed as a percentage of net
          sales because  occupancy costs tend to be mostly fixed. The ability to
          lower fixed costs as a percentage  of net sales because of a growth in
          sales is known in the industry as "leverage."

     In 1998,  we brought in a larger than usual  amount of imports  compared to
1997, which generally cost less than domestic product,  and these goods improved
our  gross  profit  margin  for the  year.  Consumable  products  are  generally
domestically produced and carry a higher cost than imports.

     In May 1998,  certain ocean shippers  increased freight charges by $300 per
container.  The higher  charges,  which  apply  only to  imported  goods,  added
approximately $700,000 to our freight costs in 1998.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative   Expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses increased $49.0 million,  or 26.6%, in 1998 as compared
to 1997.  As a  percentage  of net sales,  selling,  general and  administrative
expenses  remained  constant at 24.7%.  If you exclude merger related  expenses,
selling,  general and  administrative  expenses decreased as a percentage of net
sales to 24.2% in 1998  from  24.7% in 1997.  This  decline  happened  primarily
because  we were able to  leverage  fixed  costs  across a higher  sales  volume
because  of a  high  comparable  store  net  sales  increase.  Depreciation  and
amortization  increased  $6.0  million,  to 2.2% as a percentage of net sales in
1998  from 1.9% in 1997.  This  percentage  increase  is  mainly  the  result of
depreciation related to the Chesapeake Store Support Center.

     Operating Income.  Our operating income increased $33.8 million,  or 38.9%,
in 1998 as compared to 1997.  As a  percentage  of net sales,  operating  income
increased  to 12.8% in 1998 from 11.6% in 1997.  If you exclude  merger  related
items,  operating  income increased to $125.7 million in 1998 from $86.7 million
in 1997 and  increased as a percentage  of net sales to 13.3% from 11.6%.  These
increases were attributable to our improved gross profit margin and the decrease
in our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
discussed above.

     Interest  Income/Expense.  Interest  income  increased $0.5 million to $0.6
million in 1998 from $0.1 million in 1997.  This increase was primarily a result
of an  increased  net cash  position in the fourth  quarter of 1998  compared to
1997.  Interest expense increased $1.3 million to $4.9 million in 1998 from $3.6
million in 1997.  This  increase was primarily a result of higher levels of debt
in 1998  compared  to 1997  resulting  from  borrowings  related  to our two new
distribution  centers. In 1998, we capitalized  $402,000 of interest relating to
the construction of the Olive



Branch facility  compared with $916,000 of interest  capitalized in 1997 related
to the construction of the Chesapeake Store Support Center.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

     Our  business  requires  capital  primarily  to open new stores and operate
existing  stores.  Our working  capital  requirements  for  existing  stores are
seasonal and typically  reach their peak in the months of September and October.
Historically,  we have satisfied our seasonal  working capital  requirements for
existing stores and funded our store expansion program from internally generated
funds and borrowings under our credit facilities.

     The following  table compares  certain  cash-related  information for 1999,
1998, and 1997:

                                            1999           1998           1997
                                            ----           ----           ----
                                                       (in millions)
Net cash provided by (used in):
         Operating activities............  $120.7         $ 71.0         $ 70.5

         Investing activities............   (48.1)         (53.4)         (60.0)

         Financing activities............    29.2            9.4           29.4

     We generally  expended net cash used in  investing  activities  to open new
stores and to meet the following additional needs:

     o    $17.9  million  for  part  of the  construction  of the  Olive  Branch
          distribution  center in 1998 and another  $1.4 million on that project
          in 1999; and

     o    $30.0 million for the  construction  of the  Chesapeake  Store Support
          Center in 1997.

     Net cash  provided by financing  activities  reflects  cash which came from
sources  other than normal  operations.  We obtained  cash from the  exercise of
stock options and the following sources:

     o    $21.6  million from the sale and leaseback of some of our retail store
          leasehold improvements in 1999;

     o    $2.5  million in 1999 and $16.5  million in 1998 from the  issuance of
          callable  bonds  related  to  the  construction  of the  Olive  Branch
          facility; and

     o    $30.0 million from the issuance of senior notes in 1997.

     Our borrowings  under our bank facility,  senior notes and bonds were $49.0
million at December 31, 1999 and $46.5 million at December 31, 1998. At December
31,  1999,  we had an  additional  $135.0  million  available  through  our bank
facility. Of this amount, approximately $42.4 million is committed to letters of
credit issued for the routine purchase of imported merchandise.

Funding Requirements

     We expect to expand by  approximately  225 to 235 stores  during  2000.  In
1999, the average  investment  per new store,  including  capital  expenditures,
initial inventory and pre-opening  costs, was approximately  $211,000 per store.
Of our new Dollar Tree stores in 1999, 35 were a slightly larger format than our
traditional   prototype.   Average   investment  for  these  larger  stores  was
approximately $307,000. We expect our cash needs for opening new stores in 2000,
including  approximately  90 to  100 of  the  larger  format  stores,  to  total
approximately  $58.0  million  and we have  budgeted  $36.5  million for capital
expenditures and $21.5 million for initial inventory and pre-opening  costs. Our
total planned capital  expenditures  for 2000 are  approximately  $77.5 million,
including  planned  expenditures for expanded and relocated  stores,  additional
equipment for the distribution centers, computer system upgrades,  expanding the
Store Support  Center in Chesapeake  and  remodeling and upgrading the Only $One
stores.

     We believe that we can adequately fund our planned capital expenditures and
working capital  requirements  for the next several years from net cash provided
by operations and borrowings under our credit facility.





     Bank Credit Facility. During September 1996, we entered into an amended and
restated credit  agreement with our banks which currently  provides for a $135.0
million  unsecured  revolving  credit  facility to be used for working  capital,
letters of credit and development  needs,  bearing  interest at the agent bank's
prime rate or LIBOR plus a spread,  at our option.  As of December 31, 1999, the
interest rate was approximately 7.0%. The credit agreement,  among other things,
requires the maintenance of certain specified ratios,  restricts the payments of
cash dividends and other distributions,  limits the amount of debt, and, through
March  1,  2000,  requires  that  aggregate  borrowings  must be paid  down to a
specified amount for at least 30 consecutive days at any time between December 1
and March 1. The facility matures May 31, 2002.

     During 1998, our banks agreed to remove the  requirement  that our founding
shareholders  maintain a minimum  beneficial  ownership  in the  company  and to
eliminate requirements which restricted the amount of our capital expenditures.

     Operating  Lease  Agreements.  During June 1999,  we entered  into an $18.0
million  operating  lease  agreement  to  finance  the  construction  of  a  new
distribution center in Stockton,  California. In January 2000, we entered into a
$35.0 million  operating  lease  agreement to finance the  construction of a new
distribution  center in Savannah,  Georgia.  Under these  agreements  the lessor
purchases the property,  pays for the construction costs and subsequently leases
the facility to us.

     Sale-Leaseback  Transaction.  In September 1999, we sold some of our retail
store  leasehold  improvements  to an unrelated third party and leased them back
for seven years.  We have an option to repurchase the leasehold  improvements at
the end of the fifth and  seventh  years at  amounts  approximating  their  fair
market values at the time the option is exercised.  This  transaction is treated
as a financing  arrangement.  The total amount of the lease  obligation is $29.0
million. We are required to make monthly lease payments of $438,000 in years one
through  five  and  $638,000  in  years  six  and  seven.  As a  result  of  the
transaction,  we received net cash of $20.9 million and an $8.1 million 11% note
receivable  which  matures in September  2006 and is included in "other  assets,
net."

     Revenue Bond Financing.  In May 1998, we entered into an agreement with the
Mississippi  Business Finance Corporation under which it issued $19.0 million of
Taxable  Variable Rate Demand Revenue Bonds. We used the proceeds from the bonds
to finance the acquisition,  construction  and installation of land,  buildings,
machinery  and  equipment  for our new  distribution  facility in Olive  Branch,
Mississippi.  At December 31,  1999,  the balance  outstanding  on the bonds was
$19.0 million.  We begin repayment of the principal  amount of the bonds on June
1, 2006, with a portion  maturing each June 1 until the final portion matures on
June 1, 2018. The bonds do not have a prepayment penalty as long as the interest
rate remains  variable.  The bonds contain a demand  provision  and,  therefore,
outstanding  amounts are  classified  as current  liabilities.  We pay  interest
monthly  based on a variable  interest rate which was 6.9% at December 31, 1999.
The bonds are supported by a $19.3 million letter of credit issued by one of our
existing lending banks. The letter of credit is renewable  annually.  The letter
of  credit  and  reimbursement  agreement  requires  that  we  maintain  certain
specified ratios and restricts our ability to pay dividends.

     In April  1999,  we  entered  into an  interest  rate swap  agreement  that
converts a portion of the Demand  Revenue  Bonds to a fixed rate and reduces our
exposure to changes in interest rates. Under this agreement,  as amended, we pay
interest  to the bank  which  provided  the swap at a fixed  rate of  4.99%.  In
exchange,  the bank pays us at a variable interest rate, which is similar to the
rate on the Demand  Revenue  Bonds and was 6.5% at December  31, 1999. A maximum
variable  interest  rate was set, such that no payments are made by either party
under the swap for monthly  periods with an  established  interest  rate greater
than 8.28%. The variable interest rate on the interest rate swap is set monthly.
The swap expires  April 1, 2009;  however,  it may be canceled by us or the bank
and settled for the fair value of the swap as determined by market rates.

     Debt Securities.  In April 1997, we issued $30.0 million of 7.29% unsecured
senior notes. We used the proceeds to pay down a portion of the revolving credit
facility,  which  enabled  us to  use  that  credit  facility  to  fund  capital
expenditures for the Chesapeake corporate  headquarters and distribution center.
We pay interest on the notes  semiannually  on April 30 and October 30 each year
and will pay  principal in five equal  installments  of $6.0  million  beginning
April 30,  2000.  The note  holders  have the right to  require us to prepay the
notes in full without  premium  upon a change of control or upon  certain  asset
dispositions  or certain other  transactions  we may make.  The note  agreements
prohibit  certain  mergers  and  consolidations  in which our company is not the
surviving  company,  require that we maintain certain specified ratios,  require
that the notes  rank on par with  other debt and limit the amount of debt we can
incur.  In the event of default or a  prepayment  at our  option,  we must pay a
prepayment penalty equal to a make-whole amount.




Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations

     We experience  seasonal  fluctuations  in our net sales growth,  comparable
store net sales, operating income and net income.  Management expects this trend
to continue.  Our results of operations  may also fluctuate  significantly  as a
result of a variety of factors, including:

     o    shifts in the timing of certain holidays, especially Easter, which may
          fall in different quarters from year to year;

     o    the timing of new store openings;

     o    the net sales contributed by new stores;

     o    changes in our merchandise mix; and

     o    competition.

     Our  highest  sales  periods  are the  Christmas  and  Easter  seasons.  We
generally realize a  disproportionate  amount of our net sales and a substantial
majority  of our  operating  and  net  income  during  the  fourth  quarter.  In
anticipation  of  increased  sales  activity  during these  months,  we purchase
substantial  amounts of  inventory  and hire a  significant  number of temporary
employees to  supplement  our  permanent  store staff.  Our  operating  results,
particularly  operating and net income, could suffer if our net sales were below
seasonal  norms  during the  fourth  quarter  or Easter  season for any  reason,
including merchandise delivery delays due to receiving or distribution problems.
Historically,  net sales,  operating  income and net  income  have been  weakest
during the first quarter. We expect this trend to continue.

     Our unaudited  results of operations for the eight most recent quarters are
shown in a table in Footnote 12 of the consolidated financial statements in Item
8 of this Form 10-K. To reconcile the combined company's  quarterly  information
with that  previously  reported by Dollar Tree,  refer to our Form 8-K, filed on
July 22, 1999, which includes quarterly information for the combined companies.

Inflation and Other Economic Factors

     Our  ability to  provide  quality  merchandise  at a fixed  price  point is
subject to certain  economic  factors  which are beyond our  control,  including
inflation, operating costs, consumer confidence and general economic conditions.
These factors may not remain  favorable.  In particular,  ocean shipping  costs,
hourly minimum wage rates, or other costs may not remain at current levels.

     Ocean Shipping Costs. In May 1998, a  trans-Pacific  ocean-shipping  cartel
imposed a freight  increase of $300 per container on United States  imports from
Asia. In May 1999, the cartel  imposed a further  increase of $900 per container
for  shipments  from Asia to the West Coast of the United  States and $1,000 for
shipments to the East Coast, with a $300 per container surcharge during the peak
shipping season from June 1 through November 30. Management  believes the higher
rates will  increase our shipping  costs by  approximately  $2.0 to $3.0 million
during the first three  quarters of 2000 as compared to the first three quarters
of 1999. The shipping cartel could seek a further rate increase in the future.

     Minimum Wage.  The federally  mandated  minimum wage increased by $0.50 per
hour on  October 1, 1996 and by an  additional  $0.40 per hour on  September  1,
1997. These changes increased payroll costs by approximately $5 million in 1998.
In February  2000, the United States Senate  approved a proposal  increasing the
federal minimum wage by $1.00 an hour over three years. In March 2000, the House
of  Representatives  approved a proposal  increasing the federal minimum wage by
$1.00 per hour over two  years.  Differences  between  the two bills  need to be
settled before a final bill is sent to the President for approval.  Although our
average hourly rate is  significantly  higher than the federal  minimum wage, an
increase in the  minimum  wage,  if  eventually  passed  into law,  could have a
significant impact on our payroll costs.

     Leases  for  Replaced  Distribution  Centers.  We are  liable  for rent and
pass-through  costs under leases for our former  distribution  center in Memphis
through  September  2005 and in  Sacramento  through June 2008.  Annual rent and
pass-through  costs are  approximately  $745,000  for the Memphis  facility  and
$585,000 for the Sacramento  facility.  We have recorded loss  contingencies for
each of these leases considering current market conditions and probable sublease
income  at  each  location.  If  an  acceptable  sublease  is  not  obtained  in
Sacramento,   we  could   record  up  to  $250,000   in  selling,   general  and
administrative  expenses in 2000. If an  acceptable  sublease is not obtained in
Memphis beyond December 2000, we could record up to $350,000 in selling, general
and administrative expenses in 2000.

     Unless  offsetting  cost savings are realized (and we can give no assurance
that they will be), an increase in  inflation,  minimum  wage  levels,  shipping
costs or other operating  costs, or a



decline in consumer  confidence  or general  economic  conditions,  could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Year 2000 Compliance

     We use a large number of computer software  programs  throughout our entire
organization,  such  as  purchasing,   distribution,  retail  store  management,
financial business systems and various  administrative  functions.  We developed
some of these  programs  in-house and bought others from  vendors.  At one time,
most  computer  programs  were written to store only two digits of  date-related
information  in order to more  efficiently  handle and sort  data.  As a result,
these programs were unable to properly  distinguish  between dates  occurring in
the year 1900 and dates  occurring in the year 2000.  This is referred to as the
"Year 2000 problem."

     In  preparation  for  Year  2000,  we  evaluated  and  adjusted  all  known
date-sensitive  systems  and  equipment  for Year  2000  compliance.  We  relied
primarily  on internal  resources to  identify,  correct or  reprogram  and test
systems for Year 2000 compliance.  Through December 31, 1999, we spent less than
$150,000 in  modifying  our  systems for the Year 2000,  and we do not expect to
incur any additional costs.

     We have  not  encountered  any  business  interruptions  due to  Year  2000
problems.  However,  it is too early to conclude  these  interruptions  will not
occur. We are unable to assess fully the potential  effect of Year 2000 problems
on our  international  suppliers,  particularly in China. We also cannot predict
the duration or severity of any disruptions which may occur in China or the home
countries of our other overseas  suppliers.  In the event we experience business
interruptions  resulting  from  Year 2000  problems,  we are  prepared  to enact
contingency  plans  developed  during  the Year  2000  project.  This  Year 2000
Compliance section is a Year 2000 readiness disclosure as defined under the Year
2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act of 1998.

New Accounting Pronouncements

     Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  establishes  standards  for
derivative  instruments  and hedging  activities  and  requires  that  companies
recognize all  derivatives  as either assets or  liabilities in the statement of
financial  position and measure those  instruments at fair value. This statement
goes into effect on January 1, 2001. We do not expect that the implementation of
this  pronouncement  will have a material  impact on our financial  condition or
results of operations.

Recently Issued Securities

     During the quarter  ended June 30, 1999,  we issued an aggregate of 501,600
shares of our common stock in connection  with the purchase of the capital stock
of Tehan's  Merchandising,  Inc. The shares were issued pursuant to an exemption
by reason of Section 4(2) of the Securities  Act of 1933.  These sales were made
without general  solicitation  or advertising.  Each purchaser was an accredited
investor or a  sophisticated  investor  with access to all relevant  information
necessary.  We have filed a  Registration  Statement  on Form S-3  covering  the
resale of such securities.

     During the quarter  ended  September  30, 1999, we granted an option to two
owners of a business we acquired to purchase 3,000 shares of our common stock at
an  exercise  price of $42.875 per share.  The option was issued  pursuant to an
exemption by reason of Section 4(2) of the  Securities Act of 1933. The issuance
was made without general solicitation or advertising. The holders are accredited
investors or  sophisticated  investors  with access to all relevant  information
necessary.

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We are exposed to various  types of market risk in the normal course of our
business,  including  the impact of interest  rate changes and foreign  currency
rate  fluctuations.  We have the option of entering  into interest rate swaps to
manage  exposure  to  interest  rate  changes,  and we  may  employ  other  risk
management strategies,  including the use of foreign currency forward contracts.
We do not enter into derivative instruments for any purpose other than cash flow
hedging purposes. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

     We have  financial  instruments  that are  subject to  interest  rate risk,
comprised  of debt  obligations  issued at variable  and fixed  rates.  Based on
amounts outstanding on our fixed rate debt obligations at December 31, 1999, our
exposure to interest rate risk is not considered material.



     We use variable-rate debt to finance our operations. In particular, we have
issued  variable-rate  long-term  revenue bonds.  This obligation  exposes us to
variability in interest  payments due to changes in interest  rates. If interest
rates  increase,  interest  expense  increases.  Conversely,  if interest  rates
decrease,  interest expense also decreases. We believe it is beneficial to limit
the variability of a portion of our interest payments.

     To meet this objective, we entered into a derivative instrument in the form
of an interest rate swap to manage  fluctuations  in cash flows  resulting  from
interest  rate risk.  The interest rate swap changes the variable rate cash flow
exposure on the  variable-rate  debt to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into a
receive-variable,  pay-fixed  interest  swap.  Under the interest  rate swap, we
receive  variable  interest rate payments and make fixed interest rate payments,
thereby creating fixed rate bonds. Under the interest rate swap, we pay the bank
at a fixed rate of 4.99% and receive variable  interest at a rate  approximating
the variable rate on the hedged cash flows. No payments are made by either party
under the swap for  monthly  periods  in which  the  variable  interest  rate is
greater than 8.28%. As a result,  we will not experience a negative cash flow or
income statement  impact unless the variable  interest rate increases to greater
than 8.28%.  The variable rate under the swap was 6.5% for the month of December
1999. We assess  interest  rate cash flow risk by  continually  identifying  and
monitoring changes in interest rate exposures that may adversely impact expected
future cash flows.

Foreign Currency Risk

     Although we purchase most of our imported goods with U.S.  dollars,  we are
subject to  foreign  currency  exchange  rate risk  relating  to  payments  to a
supplier in Italian lire. As a general policy,  we  substantially  hedge foreign
currency  commitments of future payments by purchasing  foreign currency forward
contracts.  On December 31, 1999, we had one contract  outstanding for $793,000.
Less than one percent of our expenditures are contracted in Italian lire and the
market risk exposure relating to currency exchange is not material.




Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements             Page

Independent Auditors' Report...........................................   24

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998...........   25

Consolidated Income Statements for the years ended
         December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..............................   26

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..........   27

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..............................   28

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.............................   29











                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Dollar Tree
Stores,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  (the Company) as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
and the related  consolidated  income statements and statements of shareholders'
equity  and cash  flows for each of the  years in the  three-year  period  ended
December  31,   1999.   These   consolidated   financial   statements   are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Dollar Tree
Stores,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.







Norfolk, Virginia
January 24, 2000







          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (In thousands, except share and per share data)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description of Business

     Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. (DTS or the Company)  owns and  operates,  in one
business  segment,  discount variety retail stores which sell  substantially all
items for $1.00.  The Company  operates  under the names of Dollar Tree,  Dollar
Bills, Only $One and Only One Dollar. The Company's  headquarters and one of its
distribution  centers  are located in  Chesapeake,  Virginia.  The Company  also
operates  distribution  centers in Olive  Branch,  Mississippi,  in the Chicago,
Illinois  area and in Stockton,  California.  Most of the  Company's  stores are
located in the eastern  half of the United  States and in  northern  and central
California and Nevada. The Company's merchandise includes housewares,  candy and
food,  seasonal  goods,  health and  beauty  care,  toys,  party  goods,  gifts,
stationery  and  other  consumer  items.  A  slight  majority  of the  Company's
merchandise is imported, primarily from China. The Company is not dependent on a
few suppliers.

Principles of Consolidation

     At December 31, 1999, DTS has three wholly owned subsidiaries,  Dollar Tree
Management, Inc. (DTM), Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc. (DTD) and Dollar Tree New
York,  Inc.  (DTN).  DTM  provides  management,  accounting  and  administrative
services to DTS for a fee and DTD provides merchandise procurement,  purchasing,
warehousing  and  distribution  services to DTS for a fee. DTN owns and operates
discount  variety retail stores under the name Only $One and was merged with and
into DTS on January 1, 2000.  Effective  October 29,  1996,  DTD  established  a
wholly owned subsidiary, Dollar Tree Properties, Inc. (DTP). DTP is organized as
a real  estate  holding  company  and owns  certain  undeveloped  property.  The
consolidated  financial  statements  include the financial  statements of Dollar
Tree  Stores,   Inc.  and  its  wholly  owned   subsidiaries.   All  significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

     On December 10, 1998,  Dollar Tree West,  Inc. (DTW), a former wholly owned
subsidiary,  completed  a  merger,  which  was  accounted  for as a  pooling  of
interests, with Step Ahead Investments, Inc. (98 Cent Clearance Center) in which
98 Cent  Clearance  Center  became a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of DTS.  98 Cent
Clearance  Center  operated 66 stores in northern  and  central  California  and
Nevada under the name "98 Cent Clearance  Center." Prior to the merger,  98 Cent
Clearance  Center's  fiscal year end was the 52-week  period  ending on the last
Sunday  in  January.  As a result  of the  merger,  the  Company's  consolidated
financial  statements were restated to  retroactively  combine 98 Cent Clearance
Center's financial  statements as if the merger had occurred at the beginning of
the earliest period presented.

     On June 30, 1999,  DTN  completed a merger,  which was  accounted  for as a
pooling of interests,  with  privately-held  Tehan's  Merchandising,  Inc. (Only
$One),  in which Only $One became a wholly owned  subsidiary  of DTS.  Only $One
operated 24 stores in New York state under the name "Only  $One." As a result of
the merger, the Company's  consolidated  financial statements have been restated
to retroactively  combine Only $One's financial  statements as if the merger had
occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented.

     The consolidated  income  statement and statements of shareholders'  equity
and cash flows for the year ended  December  31,  1998  reflect  the  results of
operations  and cash flows for Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. for the year then ended
combined with 98 Cent  Clearance  Center for the 11-month  period ended December
31, 1998. The consolidated income statements, statements of shareholders' equity
and cash flows for the year ended  December  31,  1997  reflect  the  results of
operations  and cash flows for Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. for the year then ended
combined  with 98 Cent  Clearance  Center for the fiscal year ended  January 25,
1998.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash  equivalents at December 31, 1999 and 1998 includes  $162,755
and $64,200,  respectively,  of investments in money market  securities and bank
participation  agreements which are valued at cost, which  approximates  market.
The underlying assets of these short-term participation agreements are primarily
commercial  notes.  For purposes of the  statements  of cash flows,  the Company
considers all highly liquid debt instruments  with original  maturities of three
months or less to be cash equivalents.





Merchandise Inventories

     Merchandise  inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
assigned to store inventories using the retail inventory method, determined on a
first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. Costs directly associated with warehousing and
distribution are capitalized as merchandise  inventories.  Total warehousing and
distribution costs capitalized into inventories  amounts to $8,347 and $7,790 at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Property and Equipment

     Property  and  equipment  are  stated  at cost and  depreciated  using  the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets as
follows:

     Buildings........................................   39 years
     Furniture, fixtures and equipment................   3 to 7 years
     Transportation vehicles..........................   4 to 6 years

     Leasehold  improvements  and assets held under capital leases are amortized
over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets or terms of the related
leases, whichever is shorter.

     Costs  incurred  related  to  software   developed  for  internal  use  are
capitalized and depreciated over three years.  Costs  capitalized  include those
incurred in the application development stage.

     Interest  is  capitalized  in  connection  with the  construction  of major
facilities.  The capitalized  interest is recorded as part of the asset to which
it relates and is amortized over the asset's  estimated useful life. In 1998 and
1997, $402 and $916, respectively, of interest cost was capitalized; no interest
was capitalized in 1999.

Goodwill

     Goodwill,  which  represents the excess of  acquisition  cost over the fair
value of net assets  acquired,  is amortized on a  straight-line  basis over the
expected  periods to be benefited,  generally 20 to 25 years. If events indicate
the carrying  amount of goodwill will not be recoverable,  the Company  assesses
the  recoverability  by comparing  the carrying  amount of the asset to expected
future  net  undiscounted   cash  flows  of  the  acquired   organization.   The
recoverability  of goodwill will be impacted if estimated  future net cash flows
are not achieved.  The amount of goodwill impairment,  if any, is measured based
on  projected  discounted  future  operating  cash flows  using a discount  rate
reflecting  the  Company's  average  cost of capital.  Accumulated  amortization
relating to  goodwill  approximates  $7,593 and $5,619 at December  31, 1999 and
1998, respectively.

Financial Instruments

     The  Company  utilizes  derivative  financial  instruments  to  reduce  its
exposure to market  risks from  changes in interest  rates.  By entering  into a
receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swap, the Company changed the variable
rate cash flow exposure on certain  variable-rate debt to fixed rate cash flows.
The Company is exposed to credit related losses in the event of  non-performance
by the  counterparty to the interest rate swap;  however,  the counterparty is a
major  financial  institution,  and the risk of loss due to  non-performance  is
considered remote.  Interest rate differentials paid or received on the swap are
recognized as adjustments to interest  expense in the period earned or incurred.
The Company  does not  speculate  using  derivative  instruments  in the form of
interest  rate swaps;  therefore,  these swaps are not recorded in the Company's
balance  sheet.  The  Company  had  no  interest  rate  derivative   instruments
outstanding at December 31, 1998.

     The  Company  enters  into  foreign  exchange  forward  contracts  to hedge
off-balance  sheet  foreign  currency   denominated  purchase  commitments  from
suppliers.  The contracts are  exclusively  for Italian lire. The terms of these
contracts  are  generally  less than  three  months.  Gains and  losses on these
contracts are not recognized  until  included in the  measurement of the related
foreign  currency  transaction.  At December  31, 1999,  open  foreign  exchange
contracts of approximately  $793 were recorded based on current conversion rates
in prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts payable. There were no
open exchange contracts at December 31, 1998.

Cost of Sales

     The Company includes the cost of merchandise,  warehousing and distribution
costs, and certain occupancy costs in cost of sales.





Store Opening Costs

     The Company expenses store opening costs as they are incurred.

Income Taxes

     Income  taxes are  accounted  for under  the  asset and  liability  method.
Deferred  tax  assets  and   liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  future  tax
consequences  attributable to differences  between financial  statement carrying
amounts of  existing  assets and  liabilities  and their  respective  tax bases.
Deferred  tax  assets and  liabilities  are  measured  using  enacted  tax rates
expected  to apply to  taxable  income  in the  years in which  those  temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in the tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date of such change.

Stock-Based Compensation

     The Company has elected to apply  Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No.
25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued to  Employees"  (APB No.  25),  and  related
Interpretations  in accounting  for certain  stock-based  compensation  plans as
permitted  by  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  123,
"Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  (SFAS No.  123).  The  Company has
adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123.

Net Income Per Share

     Basic net income per share has been  computed by dividing net income by the
weighted  average  number of common shares  outstanding.  Diluted net income per
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur assuming the inclusion of
dilutive potential common shares and has been computed by dividing net income by
the  weighted  average  number of common  shares and dilutive  potential  common
shares  outstanding.  Dilutive  potential  common shares include all outstanding
stock options and warrants after applying the treasury stock method.

New Accounting Standards

     The Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (FASB) has issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities." This statement
establishes  accounting  and  reporting  standards for  derivative  instruments,
including certain derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts,  and for
hedging activities.  In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date
of SFAS No. 133," an Amendment of SFAS No. 133,  which defers the effective date
of SFAS No. 133 to all fiscal  quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000.  Management does not expect the implementation of these  pronouncements to
have a material  effect on the  Company's  financial  condition  and  results of
operations.

Use of Estimates

     The  preparation  of financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosures  of contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.  Actual  results  could differ from those  estimates.  In addition,  the
Company  has  contingent  liabilities  related  to legal  proceedings  and other
matters arising from the normal course of operations. Management does not expect
that amounts,  if any, which may be required to satisfy such  contingencies will
be material in relation to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Reclassifications

     Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified for comparability with
the 1999 financial statement presentation.

NOTE 2 - MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

98 Cent Clearance Center Merger

     On  December  10,  1998,  the  Company  completed  the merger  with 98 Cent
Clearance Center.  The merger qualified as a tax-free exchange and was accounted
for as a pooling of interests.  DTS issued 1.1212 shares of the Company's common
stock  for  each  share  of 98 Cent  Clearance  Center  outstanding  common  and
preferred  stock. A total of 1,662,740 of the Company's  common stock was issued
as a result of the  merger  and 98 Cent  Clearance  Center's  outstanding  stock
options were




converted  into options to purchase  323,207  common  shares of the Company.  In
addition,  the Company issued options to certain former  shareholders of 98 Cent
Clearance  Center in exchange for  non-competition  agreements  and a consulting
agreement.  Included in other  assets at December  31, 1998 is the fair value of
these agreements of $4,413 which is being amortized,  generally, over a ten-year
period.  At December 31, 1999, the carrying value of these agreements is $3,930,
net of $483 of accumulated amortization.  The recording of these non-competition
agreements did not involve the use of cash and,  accordingly,  has been excluded
from the accompanying  consolidated statements of cash flows. In connection with
the merger, the Company incurred $5,325 ($4,201 after taxes or $0.06 diluted net
income per share) of merger related costs and expenses,  consisting primarily of
professional  fees and  writedowns  of inventory  and fixed  assets,  which were
charged to operations during the year ended December 31, 1998.

Only $One Merger

     On June 30,  1999,  the Company  completed  the merger with Only $One.  The
merger  qualified  as a tax-free  exchange of stock and was  accounted  for as a
pooling of interests.  The Company issued 501,600 shares of its common stock for
all of the Only $One  outstanding  common stock.  In connection with the merger,
the Company incurred approximately $1,050 ($792 after taxes or $0.01 diluted net
income per share) of merger related costs and expenses,  consisting primarily of
professional fees and writedowns of inventory,  which were charged to operations
during the year ended December 31, 1999.

     Prior to June 30,  1999,  Only $One was  treated  as an  S-corporation  for
federal and state income tax purposes.  As such, income of Only $One for periods
prior to June 30, 1999 was taxable to the Only $One shareholders, rather than to
Only $One.  Effective with the Company's merger with Only $One, Only $One became
a  C-corporation.  The pro forma  provisions  for income taxes  presented in the
consolidated  income  statements  represent  an estimate of the taxes that would
have been  recorded  had Only $One been a  C-corporation  prior to the merger on
June 30, 1999.  Distributions  paid presented in the consolidated  statements of
cash  flows  represent  distributions  paid to the Only  $One  shareholders  for
payment of their pass-through tax liabilities.

     The following table presents a  reconciliation  of net sales and net income
previously  reported in the Company's  1998 Annual Report to those  presented in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

                                         For the year ended December 31,
                                               1998          1997
                                               ----          ----
     Net sales:
     DTS................................   $ 918,807     $ 723,202
     Only $One .........................      25,315        22,388
                                             -------       -------
     Combined...........................   $ 944,122     $ 745,590
                                             =======       =======

     Net income:
     DTS................................   $  68,890     $  49,928
     Only $One..........................       2,663         2,031
                                             -------       -------
     Combined...........................   $  71,553     $  51,959
                                             =======       =======

Other

     On July 6, 1999, the Company  acquired all of the assets and liabilities of
a small dollar store operator for  approximately  $2,600 in cash and forgiveness
of receivables.  The  acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The purchase
price was allocated to the assets  acquired based on their estimated fair market
values.  The excess of the purchase  price over the fair value of the net assets
acquired  (goodwill) was approximately  $1,800.  The goodwill is being amortized
over 20 years. The operating results of the acquired company are included in the
Company's  operating  results  beginning  July  6,  1999.  Pro  forma  financial
information is not presented because it is immaterial.

NOTE 3 - INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998
and 1997 consists of the following:

                                              1999         1998         1997
                                              ----         ----         ----

     Federal--Current...................   $ 48,535     $ 39,348     $ 29,967
     Federal--Deferred..................      3,950       (1,024)      (3,067)
     State--Current.....................      7,868        6,392        4,831
     State--Deferred....................        737         (183)        (436)
                                             ------       ------       ------

                                           $ 61,090     $ 44,533     $ 31,295
                                             ======       ======       ======




     A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective
rate for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 follows:

                                                      1999      1998      1997
                                                      ----      ----      ----

     Statutory tax rate............................   35.0%     35.0%     35.0%
     Effect of:
       State and local income taxes, net of
              federal income tax benefit...........    3.5       3.5       3.3
       Only $One S-corporation income..............   (0.3)     (0.8)     (0.8)
       Other, net..................................    0.1       0.7       0.1
                                                      ----      ----      ----

     Effective tax rate............................   38.3%     38.4%     37.6%
                                                      ====      ====      ====

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax  purposes.  Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified on the balance sheet based on the  classification  of
the underlying asset or liability.  Significant  components of the Company's net
deferred tax assets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

                                                            1999        1998
                                                            ----        ----
     Deferred tax assets:
        Property and equipment.........................  $    -      $  2,359
        Accrued expenses...............................     5,707       5,487
        Inventories....................................     3,142       3,147
        Other..........................................       424         361
                                                            -----      ------

            Total deferred tax assets..................     9,273      11,354
                                                            -----      ------

     Deferred tax liabilities:
        Intangible assets..............................    (2,553)    (2,311)
        Property and equipment.........................      (657)       -
        Deferred compensation..........................    (1,626)       -
        Other..........................................      (221)      (140)
                                                           ------     ------

            Total deferred tax liabilities.............    (5,057)    (2,451)
                                                           ------     ------

            Net deferred tax assets....................  $  4,216    $ 8,903
                                                           ======     ======

     In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more  likely  than not that some  portion  or all of the  deferred
taxes will not be realized.  Based upon the availability of carrybacks of future
deductible  amounts  to 1999,  1998 and 1997  taxable  income  and  management's
projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax
assets  are  deductible,  management  believes  it is more  likely  than not the
existing net  deductible  temporary  differences  will reverse during periods in
which  carrybacks  are  available or in which the Company  generates net taxable
income.  However,  there can be no assurance  that the Company will generate any
income or any specific level of continuing income in future years.

NOTE 4 - LEASES

     Future  minimum lease  payments  under  noncancelable  store,  distribution
center and former corporate  headquarters operating leases and the present value
of future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

                                                             Capital   Operating
                                                              Leases     Leases
                                                              ------     ------
     Year ending December 31:
         2000 ............................................. $  5,873    $ 71,921
         2001 .............................................    5,859      65,016
         2002 .............................................    5,829      53,969
         2003 .............................................    5,792      41,629
         2004 .............................................    6,346      27,801
         Thereafter........................................   13,525      56,436
                                                              ------     -------
     Total minimum lease payments..........................   43,224    $316,772
                                                                         =======
     Less amount representing interest
         (at an average rate of approximately 9%)..........   11,666
                                                              ------
     Present value of net minimum capital lease payments...   31,558
     Less current installments of obligations under
         capital leases....................................    3,183
                                                              ------
     Obligations under capital leases, excluding current
         installments...................................... $ 28,375
                                                              ======




     The above future  minimum lease  payments  include  amounts for leases that
were  signed  prior to  December  31,  1999 for stores  that were not open as of
December 31, 1999.  Minimum rental payments for operating  leases do not include
contingent  rentals  that may be paid  under  certain  store  leases  based on a
percentage  of sales in excess  of  stipulated  amounts.  Future  minimum  lease
payments  have not been  reduced by future  minimum  sublease  rentals of $7,284
under operating leases.

     Included in property and equipment at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are leased
furniture and fixtures and  transportation  vehicles,  excluding  sale-leaseback
assets, with a cost of $3,366 and $3,473 and accumulated  amortization of $1,170
and $677 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Sale-Leaseback Transaction

     On September  30, 1999,  the Company  sold certain  retail store  leasehold
improvements  to an  unrelated  third party and leased them back for a period of
seven years. The Company has an option to purchase the leasehold improvements at
the end of the fifth and  seventh  years at  amounts  approximating  their  fair
market values at the time the option is  exercised.  This  transaction  is being
accounted  for as a  financing  arrangement.  The  total  amount  of  the  lease
obligation is $29.0 million.  The lease agreement includes  financial  covenants
that are not more restrictive than those of existing loan agreements. As part of
the transaction,  the Company received net proceeds of $20,880 and an $8,120 11%
note receivable  which matures  September 2006 and is included in "other assets,
net." The future minimum lease payments  related to the capital lease obligation
are included in the five year schedule above.

Operating Leases

     During  June 1999,  the Company  entered  into an $18,000  operating  lease
agreement to finance the construction of the new unautomated distribution center
in Stockton.  This distribution center replaced the Sacramento,  California area
facility.  Under this agreement, the lessor purchases the property, pays for the
construction  costs and  subsequently  leases the facility to the  Company.  The
initial  lease term is five  years.  The lease  provides  for a  residual  value
guarantee  and  includes  a purchase  option  based on the  initial  cost of the
property. The Company estimates its liability,  if any, under the residual value
guarantee and records additional rent expense on a straight-line  basis over the
remaining lease term. (See Note 11)

     The  Company  is   responsible   for  payments   under  leases  for  former
distribution centers located in Memphis, Tennessee and Sacramento and the former
corporate headquarters and distribution center in Norfolk,  Virginia. The leases
for the  facilities  expire in September  2005,  June 2008,  and December  2009,
respectively.  The lease for the Norfolk facility is from a partnership owned by
related  parties.  The future  minimum  lease  payments  for each  facility  are
included in the five-year  schedule above. The Company receives  sublease income
in connection with the Norfolk and Memphis  facilities from sublease  agreements
which expire in February  2008 and  December  2000,  respectively.  The sublease
income on the Norfolk facility  exceeds the annual  obligation of $656 under the
lease.  Due to the  uncertainty  regarding  the ultimate  recovery of the future
lease payments and the investment in the improvements in the building in Memphis
and  Sacramento,  the  Company  recorded a $1,300  loss  contingency  related to
Sacramento in 1999 and a $1,125 loss contingency related to Memphis in 1998. The
loss  contingency  for  Memphis  was  reduced  $700  in  1999  due to  favorable
developments.

     The  Company  also  leases   properties   for  three  of  its  stores  from
partnerships owned by related parties.  The total rental payments related to the
leases for the former corporate  headquarters and distribution  center and these
stores were $794,  $790 and $789 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997,  respectively.  Rental  expense  for these  properties  is included in the
rental expense disclosure below.

     Rental  expense  for  store,   distribution  center  and  former  corporate
headquarters  operating leases included in the accompanying  consolidated income
statements for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:

                                              1999          1998          1997
                                              ----          ----          ----

     Minimum rentals.....................  $ 65,480      $ 51,693      $ 42,143
     Contingent rentals..................     1,613         1,374         1,837
                                             ------        ------        ------
            Total........................  $ 67,093      $ 53,067      $ 43,980
                                             ======        ======        ======





NOTE 5 - BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

Net  property and  equipment  as of December  31, 1999 and 1998  consists of the
following:

                                                           1999          1998
                                                           ----          ----

     Land   ...........................................  $  8,051     $  8,051
     Buildings.........................................    28,468       17,714
     Improvements......................................    61,779       47,508
     Furniture, fixtures and equipment.................   111,033       80,729
     Transportation vehicles...........................     3,248        3,903
     Construction in progress..........................     7,576       20,918
                                                          -------      -------
           Total property and equipment................   220,155      178,823

     Less accumulated depreciation and amortization....    76,132       56,320
                                                          -------      -------

           Total ......................................  $144,023     $122,503
                                                          =======      =======

Other  current  liabilities  as of December  31,  1999 and 1998  consists of the
following:

                                                            1999         1998
                                                            ----         ----

     Compensation and benefits.........................  $ 12,132     $ 13,496
     Taxes (other than income taxes)...................    13,963       10,355
     Other.............................................     2,939        2,137
                                                           ------       ------
           Total ......................................  $ 29,034     $ 25,988
                                                           ======       ======

NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 consists of the following:

                                                            1999         1998
                                                            ----         ----
     7.29% Senior Notes, interest payable semiannually
     on April 30 and October 30, principal payable
     $6,000 per year beginning April 30, 2000..........  $ 30,000     $ 30,000

     Demand Revenue Bonds, interest payable monthly at a
     variable rate which was 6.9% at December 31, 1999,
     principal payable beginning June 2006, maturing
     June 2018.........................................    19,000       16,500

     Note payable, interest at 7.0%, paid in
     January 2000......................................     1,500          -
                                                            -----       ------

     Total long-term debt .............................    50,500       46,500
     Less current portion .............................    26,500       16,500
                                                           ------       ------
     Long-term debt, excluding current portion ........  $ 24,000     $ 30,000
                                                           ======       ======

     Maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 2000 - $26,500; 2001 - $6,000;
2002 - $6,000; 2003 - $6,000; 2004 - $6,000.

Senior Notes

     The  holders of the Senior  Notes have the right to require  the Company to
prepay  the  Notes in full  without  premium  upon a change of  control  or upon
certain other  transactions  by the Company.  The Note  agreements,  among other
things, prohibit certain mergers and consolidations,  require the maintenance of
certain  specified  ratios,  require  that the Notes  rank pari  passu  with the
Company's  other  debt and limit the  amount of  Company  debt.  In the event of
default or a prepayment at the option of the Company, the Company is required to
pay a prepayment penalty equal to a make-whole amount.

Demand Revenue Bonds

         On May 20, 1998,  the Company  entered into a Loan  Agreement  with the
Mississippi  Business  Finance  Corporation  (MBFC)  under which the MBFC issued
Taxable Variable Rate Demand Revenue Bonds (the Bonds) in an aggregate principal
amount of $19,000 to finance the acquisition,  construction, and installation of
land,  buildings,  machinery and  equipment  for the Company's new  distribution
facility in Olive Branch.  The Bonds do not contain a prepayment penalty as long
as the interest




rate remains  variable.  The Bonds are  supported by a $19,300  letter of credit
issued by one of the Company's  existing  lending banks. The letter of credit is
renewable annually.  The Letter of Credit and Reimbursement  Agreement requires,
among other things,  the maintenance of certain  specified  ratios and restricts
the payment of dividends.  The Bonds contain a demand provision and,  therefore,
outstanding amounts are classified as current liabilities.

     On April 1, 1999, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap agreement
(swap)  related to the $19,000 Loan  Agreement  with the MBFC (Loan  Agreement).
This swap  converts the variable  interest  rate to a fixed rate and reduces the
Company's  exposure to interest  rate  fluctuations.  Under this  agreement,  as
amended,  the Company  pays  interest to the bank which  provided  the swap at a
fixed  rate of 4.99%.  In  exchange,  the bank pays the  Company  at a  variable
interest rate, which  approximates the rate on the Loan Agreement.  The variable
interest rate of the swap is adjusted monthly.  For months in which the interest
rate as calculated  under the  agreement is greater than 8.28%,  no payments are
made by either  party.  The swap,  effective  through  April 1, 2009, is for the
entire amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement.

Note Payable

     The Company issued a note in connection with the acquisition of four stores
from a small dollar store operator (see Note 2). The note bears interest at 7.0%
and the Company  paid all except $24 of the  principal  and accrued  interest in
January 2000. The remaining  balance relates to certain  contingent  payments of
store deposits.

Revolving Credit Facility

     On  September  27, 1996,  the Company  entered into an Amended and Restated
Revolving  Credit  Agreement  with its  banks  (the  Agreement).  The  Agreement
provides  for,  among other  things:  (1) a $135,000  revolving  line of credit,
bearing  interest  at the agent  bank's  prime  interest  rate or LIBOR,  plus a
spread,  at the option of the Company;  (2) an annual  facilities fee and annual
agent's fee payable  quarterly;  and (3) the  reduction  of amounts  outstanding
under the Agreement for a period of 30 consecutive days between December 1, 1999
and March 1, 2000 to $10,000. There are no additional reduction requirements.

     The  Agreement,  among other things,  requires the  maintenance  of certain
specified financial ratios,  restricts the payment of certain  distributions and
prohibits the incurrence of certain new indebtedness. During 1998, the Agreement
was amended to remove the restrictions on the amount of capital expenditures and
on the minimum beneficial ownership of the founding shareholders.  The Agreement
matures on May 31, 2002. At December 31, 1999, the variable interest rate on the
facility was 7.0%.  At December 31, 1999 and 1998,  no amounts were  outstanding
under the Agreement;  however,  approximately  $42,387 of the $135,000 available
under the  Agreement  was  committed  to  certain  letters  of credit  issued in
relation to the routine purchase of imported merchandise at December 31, 1999.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The carrying value of the Company's  long-term debt  approximates  its fair
value.  The fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows of each
instrument  at  rates  offered  for  similar  debt   instruments  of  comparable
maturities.

     The fair  value of the  interest  rate  swap is the  estimated  amount  the
Company  would  receive or pay to terminate  the  agreement as of the  reporting
date. The fair value of the interest rate swap at December 31, 1999 is $867.

NOTE 7 - MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES

     The Company has a financial and management  advisory service agreement with
one of its non-employee shareholders.  The agreement provides for the payment of
$200  annually  over the term of the  agreement.  The agreement is terminable by
vote of the  Company's  Board  of  Directors.  During  each of the  years  ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company paid $200 under this agreement.

NOTE 8 - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Unattached Warrants

     The Company  issued  unattached  warrants to purchase  2,792,450  shares of
Common Stock on September 30, 1993 for $0.18 per warrant and unattached warrants
to purchase  2,792,450 shares of Common Stock on February 22, 1994 for $0.18 per
warrant. The warrants, which are held by certain Company shareholders,  carry an
exercise  price of $0.86 per share,  have been  exercisable  since





March 6, 1995 (the effective date of the Company's initial public offering), and
expire on December 31, 2003. All warrants are outstanding at December 31, 1999.

Preferred Stock

     Effective  February 1, 1995, the Articles of Incorporation  were amended to
authorize 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share.

Stock Dividends

     In connection with stock dividends  authorized by the Board of Directors in
1998 and 1997, the Company issued one-half share for each  outstanding  share of
Common  Stock,  payable June 29, 1998 to  shareholders  of record as of June 22,
1998, and payable July 21, 1997 to  shareholders  of record as of July 14, 1997,
respectively.  All  share  and per share  data in these  consolidated  financial
statements  and the  accompanying  notes  have been  retroactively  adjusted  to
reflect these dividends, each having the effect of a 3-for-2 stock split.

Net Income Per Share

     The  following  table sets forth the  calculation  of basic and diluted net
income per share:


NOTE 9 - PROFIT SHARING AND 401(K) RETIREMENT PLAN

     The Company maintains defined  contribution profit sharing and 401(k) plans
which are available to all employees over 21 years of age who have completed one
year of service in which they have  worked,  in general,  at least 1,000  hours.
Eligible  employees may make  elective  salary  deferrals.  The Company may make
contributions at its discretion.

     Contributions to and reimbursements by the Company of expenses of the plans
included in the accompanying  consolidated income statements for the years ended
December 31 were as follows:

          1999.................................  $ 5,344
          1998.................................    4,017
          1997.................................    2,923

NOTE 10 - STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

     At December 31, 1999, the Company has five stock-based  compensation plans,
which are described below.

Accounting Method

     The Company  adopted the  disclosure-only  option  under SFAS No. 123 as of
January 1, 1996. If the  accounting  provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been adopted
as of the  beginning of 1996,  the Company's net income and net income per share
would have been  reduced to the pro forma  amounts  indicated  in the  following
table:



                                                  1999        1998        1997
                                                  ----        ----        ----
     Net income:
        As reported.........................   $ 98,518    $ 71,553    $ 51,959
                                                 ======      ======      ======
        Pro forma...........................   $ 88,499    $ 64,813    $ 48,951
                                                 ======      ======      ======

     Basic net income per share:
        As reported.........................   $   1.59    $   1.17    $   0.86
                                                 ======      ======      ======
        Pro forma...........................   $   1.43    $   1.06    $   0.81
                                                 ======      ======      ======

     Diluted net income per share:
        As reported.........................   $   1.45    $   1.06    $   0.78
                                                 ======      ======      ======
        Pro forma...........................   $   1.30    $   0.96    $   0.73
                                                 ======      ======      ======

     The full impact of  calculating  compensation  cost for stock options under
SFAS No.  123 is not  reflected  in the pro forma net  income and net income per
share amounts  presented above because  compensation  cost is reflected over the
options'  vesting  periods and  compensation  cost for options  granted prior to
January  1,  1995  is  not  considered.  These  pro  forma  amounts  may  not be
representative of future disclosures because compensation cost is reflected over
the options'  vesting periods and because  additional  options may be granted in
future years.

Fixed Stock Option Plans

     The Company  has four fixed stock  option  plans.  Under the  Non-Qualified
Stock  Option  Plan (SOP),  the Company  granted  options to its  employees  for
698,176  shares  of Common  Stock in 1993 and  698,859  shares in 1994.  Options
granted  under the SOP have an exercise  price of $1.29 and are fully  vested at
the date of grant.

     Under the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (SIP), the Company may grant options to
its employees for up to 5,400,000  shares of Common Stock. The exercise price of
each option equals the market price of the Company's stock at the date of grant,
unless a higher price is established by the Board of Directors,  and an option's
maximum term is ten years.  Options  granted under the SIP generally vest over a
three-year period.

     The Step  Ahead  Investments,  Inc.  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan (SAI  Plan)
provided for the issuance of stock options,  stock  appreciation  rights (SARs),
phantom  stock and  restricted  stock  awards  to  officers  and key  employees.
Effective with the merger with 98 Cent Clearance  Center and in accordance  with
the terms of the SAI Plan,  outstanding  98 Cent  Clearance  Center options were
assumed by the Company and converted,  based on 1.1212 Company  options for each
98 Cent  Clearance  Center option,  to options to purchase the Company's  common
stock. Options issued as a result of this conversion were fully vested as of the
date of the merger.  At the date of the merger,  the SAI Plan was  authorized to
issue 400,000 shares subject to stock options,  40,000 phantom  shares,  125,000
SARs, and 25,000  restricted  stock awards.  In 1996, 98 Cent  Clearance  Center
converted all of the outstanding  SARs and phantom stock awards to stock options
and restricted stock awards, respectively.

     Under the 1998  Special  Stock  Option  Plan  (Special  Plan),  options  to
purchase  165,000  shares  were  granted  to  five  former  officers  of 98 Cent
Clearance  Center who were serving as employees  or  consultants  of the Company
following  the merger.  The options were granted as  consideration  for entering
into non-competition  agreements and a consulting agreement.  The exercise price
of each option  equals the market  price of the  Company's  stock at the date of
grant,  and an option's  maximum term is ten years.  Options  granted  under the
Special Plan vest over a five-year period.

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model with the  following  weighted  average
assumptions:

                                               1999         1998        1997
                                               ----         ----        ----

     Expected term in years................        8           8          10
     Expected volatility...................    52.7%       50.4%       47.7%
     Annual dividend yield.................      -           -           -
     Risk-free interest rate...............     6.6%        4.9%        5.8%

     The  following  tables  summarize  the  Company's   various  option  plans,
including the SAI Plan for the period prior to the merger with 98 Cent Clearance
Center,  as of December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997,  and changes  during the years
then ended and information about fixed options outstanding at December 31, 1999.






Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     Under the Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), the
Company is authorized to issue up to 506,250  shares of Common Stock to eligible
employees.  Under the terms of the ESPP,  employees can choose to have up to 10%
of their annual base earnings  withheld to purchase the Company's  common stock.
The  purchase  price  of the  stock  is 85% of the  lower  of the  price  at the
beginning or the price at the end of the quarterly  offering  period.  Under the
ESPP, the Company has sold 97,449 shares as of December 31, 1999.

     The fair value of the employees'  purchase  rights is estimated on the date
of grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
weighted average assumptions:

     Expected term.............................  3 months
     Expected volatility.......................  21% to 34%
     Annual dividend yield.....................   -
     Risk-free interest rate...................  5.16% to 5.88% (annualized)

     The weighted  average per share fair value of those purchase rights granted
in 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $6.10, $6.28, and $3.97, respectively.





NOTE 11 - SUBSEQUENT EVENT (Unaudited)

     On January 13, 2000,  the Company  entered into a $35,000  operating  lease
agreement to finance the construction of a new automated  distribution center in
Savannah,  Georgia. Under this agreement the lessor purchases the property, pays
for the construction costs and subsequently  leases the facility to the Company.
The initial  lease term is five years with  renewal  options for two  additional
five-year  periods.  The lease  provides  for a  residual  value  guarantee  and
includes a purchase  option based on the initial cost of the property.  When the
assets are placed into service, the Company will estimate its liability, if any,
under the  residual  value  guarantee  and record  additional  rent expense on a
straight-line  basis over the remaining lease term. The new facility is expected
to be operational in early 2001.

NOTE 12 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)

     The following table sets forth certain  unaudited results of operations for
each quarter of 1999 and 1998.  The unaudited  information  has been prepared on
the same  basis  as the  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  appearing
elsewhere in this report and includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring   adjustments,   which  management  considers  necessary  for  a  fair
presentation of the financial data shown. The operating  results for any quarter
are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period.




Item 9. CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                                    PART III


Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information concerning our Directors and Executive Officers required by
this Item is  incorporated  by  reference  to Dollar Tree  Stores,  Inc.'s Proxy
Statement  relating to our Annual Meeting of  Shareholders to be held on May 25,
2000, under the caption "Election of Directors."

     Information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption  "Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the  Securities and Exchange Act of 1934," with respect to
director and executive  officer  compliance  with Section 16(a), is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information   set  forth  in  the  Proxy   Statement   under  the   caption
"Compensation of Executive Officers," with respect to executive compensation, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information set forth in the Proxy  Statement under the caption  "Ownership
of the Common  Stock of the  Company,"  with  respect to security  ownership  of
certain beneficial owners and management, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information  set forth in the Proxy  Statement  under the caption  "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

     1.  Financial   Statements.   Reference   is  made  to  the  Index  to  the
         Consolidated  Financial  Statements set forth under Part II, Item 8, on
         page 23 of this Form 10-K.

     2.  Financial  Statement  Schedules.  All schedules for which  provision is
         made in the  applicable  accounting  regulations  of the Securities and
         Exchange  Commission are not required  under the related  instructions,
         are not applicable,  or the information is included in the Consolidated
         Financial Statements, and therefore have been omitted.

     3.  Exhibits. The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits, on
         page 43 of this Form  10-K,  are filed as part of, or  incorporated  by
         reference into, this report.


(b) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed since September 30, 1999.

     1.  Report on Form 8-K,  filed  January 26, 2000,  included a press release
         regarding earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 1999.








                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.


DATE: February 29, 2000               By: /s/ Macon F. Brock, Jr.
                                          ------------------------------------
                                           Macon F. Brock, Jr.
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer



     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



        Signature                  Title                            Date
        ---------                  -----                            ----


/s/ J. Douglas Perry
- --------------------
J. Douglas Perry               Chairman of the Board;          February 29, 2000
                               Director

/s/ Macon F. Brock, Jr.
- -----------------------
Macon F. Brock, Jr.            President and Chief Executive   February 29, 2000
                               Officer; Director (principal
                               executive officer)

/s/ H. Ray Compton
- ------------------
H. Ray Compton                 Executive Vice President;       February 29, 2000
                               Director


/s/ John F. Megrue
- ------------------
John F. Megrue                 Vice Chairman; Director         February 29, 2000


/s/ Frederick C. Coble
- ----------------------
Frederick C. Coble             Senior Vice President and       February 29, 2000
                               Chief Financial Officer
                               (principal financial and
                               accounting officer)


/s/ Richard G. Lesser
- ---------------------
Richard G. Lesser              Director                        February 29, 2000



/s/ Thomas A. Saunders, III
- ---------------------------
Thomas A. Saunders, III        Director                        February 29, 2000



/s/ Alan L. Wurtzel
- -------------------
Alan L. Wurtzel                Director                        February 29, 2000


/s/ Frank Doczi
- ---------------
Frank Doczi                    Director                        February 29, 2000









                                Index to Exhibits

3.    Articles and Bylaws

      3.1   Third Restated Articles of Incorporation of Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.
            (the Company),  as amended  (Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's  Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended  September 30, 1996
            incorporated herein by this reference)

      3.2   Second Restated Bylaws of the Company  (Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's
            Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1,  No.  33-88502,  incorporated
            herein by this reference)

10.   Material Contracts

(a)   The following document(s) is/are filed herewith:

      10.1  Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement
            (Amended and Restated Credit  Agreement) dated September 15, 1999 by
            and among Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Dollar Tree Distribution,  Inc.,
            Dollar Tree  Management,  Inc.,  BankBoston,  N.A., Bank of America,
            N.A.,  Crestar  Bank,  First Union  National  Bank,  Amsouth Bank of
            Alabama, Union Bank of California, N.A.

      10.2  Master Lease Agreement  between Atlantic  Financial Group,  LTD., as
            Lessor,  and  Dollar  Tree  Distribution,  Inc.  and  Certain  Other
            Subsidiaries  of Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc.,  as Lessee dated January
            13, 2000

      10.3  Appendix  A  to  Master   Agreement,   Lease,   Loan  Agreement  and
            Construction Agency Agreement

      10.4  Master Agreement among  Dollar Tree  Stores,  Inc.,  as a Guarantor,
            Dollar  Tree  Distribution,  Inc.  and  Certain  Other  Subsidiaries
            of Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. That May Hereafter  Become Party Hereto,
            as Lessees, Atlantic  Financial  Group,  LTD.,  as  Lessor,  Certain
            Financial Institutions Parties Hereto,  as Lenders and Crestar Bank,
            as Agent, dated January 13, 2000

      10.5  Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc.  Supplemental  Deferred  Compensation Plan
            dated February 24, 2000.

(b)   The following  documents,  filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5,
      10.6,  and 10.7 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the
      fiscal  quarter  ended  June 30,  1999  are  incorporated  herein  by this
      reference:

      10.6  Merger Agreement by and among Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc., Dollar Tree
            New York, Inc., Tehan's Merchandising, Inc., dated June 15, 1999

      10.7  Credit Agreement among First Security Bank, National Association and
            First Union National Bank, dated June 2, 1999

      10.8  Agency Agreement  between Dollar Tree  Distribution,  Inc. and First
            Security Bank, National Association, dated June 2, 1999

      10.9  Trust Agreement between First Union National Bank and First Security
            Bank, National Association, dated June 2, 1999

      10.10 Security Agreement between First Security Bank, National Association
            and First Union  National  Bank and accepted and agreed to by Dollar
            Tree Distribution, Inc., dated June 2, 1999

      10.11 Lease Agreement between First Security Bank,  National  Association,
            and Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc., dated June 2, 1999

      10.12 Participation Agreement among Dollar Tree  Distribution,  Inc. First
            Security Bank,  National  Association and First Union National Bank,
            dated June 2, 1999



(c)   The following document, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's Form  S-3 on
      August 18, 1999 is incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.13 Amendment  to  Merger  Agreement  dated  June 22, 1999  by and among
            Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Dollar  Tree  New York, Inc.,  Tehan's and
            the Shareholders

(d)   The following documents,  filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to the Company's
      Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended  September 30,
      1999 are incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.14 Master Lease Agreement between DTS Properties,  Inc. and Dollar Tree
            Stores,  Inc.,  dated  September  30,  1999  (Confidential  material
            omitted  and  filed  separately  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment)

      10.15 Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc.
            and DTS Properties, Inc., dated September 30, 1999


21.   Subsidiaries of the Registrant

      21.1  Subsidiaries

23.   Consents of Experts and Counsel

      23.1  Consent of Independent Auditors

27.   Financial Data Schedule

      27.1  Financial  Data Schedule as of and for the years ended  December 31,
            1999,  December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997.  Years 1998 and 1997
            have been restated to give effect to the pooling-of-interests merger
            with Only $One


