
10-K
DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC. 1998 FORM 10K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

 ( X )       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998


                           Commission File No.0-25464

                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Virginia                            54-1387365
      (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
      Incorporation or organization)            Identification No.)

                     500 Volvo Parkway, Chesapeake, VA 23320
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (757) 321-5000

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
          Title of Each Class         Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
                None                                    None

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common Stock (par value $.01 per share)
                                (Title of Class)

     Indicate  by check  mark  whether  Registrant  (1) has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. (X)

     The aggregate  market value of Common Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant on March 15, 1999 was $1,785,983,119 based on a $37.50 average of the
high and low sales  prices for the Common  Stock on such date.  For  purposes of
this  computation,  all executive  officers and directors have been deemed to be
affiliates. Such determination should not be deemed to be an admission that such
executive officers and directors are, in fact, affiliates of the Registrant.

     On March 15, 1999, there were 61,169,679 shares of the Registrant's  Common
Stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         The information  called for in Part III is incorporated by reference to
the definitive  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  of the
Company to be held June 3, 1999,  which  will be filed with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission not later than April 30, 1999.




                                                                   
                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
                               

                                                                          Page
                                     PART I

Item 1.    BUSINESS.........................................................3

Item 2.    PROPERTIES.......................................................9

Item 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS...............................................10

Item 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.............11

                                 PART II

Item 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
             STOCKHOLDER MATTERS...........................................11

Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.........................................11

Item 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
             CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS...........................13

Item 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK......21

Item 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.....................22

Item 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
             ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE...........................38

                                 PART III

Item 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT..............39

Item 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION..........................................39

Item 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
             AND MANAGEMENT................................................39

Item 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS..................39

                                 PART IV

Item 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
             ON FORM 8-K...................................................39

           SIGNATURES......................................................41




A WARNING  ABOUT  FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS:  We have  made  "forward-looking
statements"  in this  document  as that term is used in the  Private  Securities
Litigation  Reform Act of 1995.  Such  statements  are based on the  beliefs and
assumptions of our  management,  and on information  currently  available to our
management. Our assumptions,  beliefs and current information could be mistaken.
Forward-looking  statements  include any statements  preceded by, followed by or
including words such as "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "expect,"  "intend,"  "plan,"
"view" or "estimate."  Forward-looking  statements also include, and are subject
to risks relating to, our future operations, performance, or financial condition
such as:

         o    comparable store net sales trends,

         o    expansion plans and store openings,

         o    dependence on imports and vulnerability to foreign economic and 
              political conditions as well as import restrictions, duties and 
              tariffs,

         o    increases in shipping costs, the minimum wage, and other costs,

         o    the integration of Step Ahead,

         o    the capacity and the performance of our distribution centers and 
              systems,

         o    our ability to sublease the Memphis facility, and

         o    Year 2000 compliance.

Any  statements  concerning  our future  operations,  performance,  or financial
condition  could be inaccurate or incorrect.  For  additional  discussion of the
factors  that could  affect our actual  operations,  performance  or  financial
condition,  see  "Business,"  and  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time,  communicate
with securities  analysts,  it is against company policy to disclose to them any
material non-public  information or other confidential  commercial  information.
Accordingly,  shareholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or
report  issued by any analyst  irrespective  of the content of the  statement or
report.  We also have a company policy against  issuing  financial  forecasts or
projections  or  confirming  those  issued by others.  Thus,  to the extent that
reports  issued by securities  analysts  contain any  projections,  forecasts or
opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         INTRODUCTORY  NOTE: Unless otherwise  stated,  financial and other data
describe Dollar Tree and Step Ahead on a combined basis, and references to "we,"
"our" and the "company" refer to the combined company.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

         Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. was established in 1986 by J. Douglas Perry, 
our Chairman,  Macon F. Brock,  Jr., our President and Chief Executive  Officer,
and H. Ray Compton, our Executive Vice President.  They have worked together for
20 years  building  first a chain of toy  stores and then the  discount  variety
store chain that became Dollar Tree.  After selling the toy stores in 1991, they
concentrated  solely on developing and expanding  Dollar Tree variety stores and
selling merchandise at the $1.00 price point.

         We have  opened  over 100 new stores in each of the last  three  years.
Dollar Tree stores have been successful in major metropolitan  areas,  mid-sized
cities and small towns with populations under 25,000. Our stores perform well in
a variety of locations. They are typically between 4,500 to 5,000 square feet in
size and stock a wide  assortment  of  products  in  traditional  variety  store
categories.  Much of this  merchandise  is directly or indirectly  imported from
vendors located abroad.

         In December  1998, we merged  Dollar Tree with Step Ahead  Investments,
Inc.,  and obtained its sixty-six "98 Cent  Clearance  Center" stores located in
northern and central  California and northwestern  Nevada.  These stores average
10,000 to 14,000  square  feet and are more than  twice as large as the  typical
Dollar Tree store.  They also stock more  consumable  merchandise  and generally



target  customers  with  lower  incomes  than those that  Dollar  Tree  targets.
Although Step Ahead does not directly import merchandise, a portion of its goods
purchased from domestic vendors are manufactured abroad.

         During  1999,  we will make  several  changes to the 98 Cent  Clearance
Centers so that they will more closely  resemble  our Dollar Tree stores.  These
changes include:

         o    changing the name, layout and look of the stores,

         o    improving the quality and selection of merchandise,

         o    improving merchandise presentation, and

         o    converting the $0.98 price point to match our $1.00 price point.

Business Strategy

         Our goal is to  continue  our  leadership  position  in the $1.00 price
point  segment of the discount  retail  industry.  Factors  contributing  to the
success of our operations include:

         Value  Offering.  We strive to exceed  customers'  expectations  of the
range and  quality of  products  that can be  purchased  for  $1.00.  Management
believes that many of the items we sell for $1.00 are typically  sold for higher
prices  elsewhere.  We are able to offer  such  value  in part by  purchasing  a
substantial  portion  of  our  products  directly  from  foreign  manufacturers,
allowing us to pass on  additional  value to the customer.  In addition,  direct
relationships with both domestic and foreign  manufacturers permit broad product
selection,  customized packaging and,  frequently,  the ability to obtain larger
sizes and higher package quantities.

         Changing Merchandise Mix. In addition to our wide assortment of quality
everyday core merchandise, we have a constantly changing mix of new and exciting
products.  These can include seasonal goods, such as Easter gifts,  summer toys,
back-to-school  products  and  Christmas  wrapping  paper,  as well as  closeout
merchandise. We also take advantage of the availability of lower priced, private
label goods, which are comparable to national name brands.

         Strong and Consistent Store Level Economics. The early profitability of
our stores and the  flexibility  of our real estate  strategy  provide us with a
wide  range of real  estate  opportunities.  Dollar  Tree and 98 Cent  Clearance
Center stores have  historically  been profitable  within the first full year of
operations.  Dollar Tree stores have an average store level operating  income of
approximately  $185,000  (approximately 23% of net sales) for stores whose first
full year of  operations  was 1998.  98 Cent  Clearance  Centers have an average
store level operating income of approximately $252,000 (approximately 15% of net
sales) for stores whose first full year of operations was 1998. In addition, the
operating  performance of both Dollar Tree and 98 Cent  Clearance  Center stores
has been very consistent. Over 90% of those stores open for the entire year have
store level  operating  income margins in excess of 15% for 1998. We expect most
future stores we open to resemble the Dollar Tree model.

         Cost  Control.  Given our pricing  structure,  it is  critical  that we
monitor  expenses,  inventories  and operating  margins.  We closely manage both
retail inventory  shrinkage and retail markdowns of inventory,  limiting each to
an average  of not more than 2.5% of annual net sales over the last five  years.
In the past five years, on a combined basis and excluding  merger related costs,
we have kept our gross profit  margins in the 35.7% to 37.9% range and increased
our operating income margin from 10.3% to 13.4%.

Growth Strategy

         Historically,  our net sales growth has come  primarily  from new store
openings,  as well as comparable store net sales  increases.  For the five years
ended December 31, 1998, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of
35% and  operating  income,  excluding  merger  related  costs,  increased  at a
compound  annual  growth rate of 44%.  Management  anticipates  that the primary
sources of future  sales  growth  will be new store  openings  and,  to a lesser
degree,  sales increases from expanded and relocated stores and comparable store
net sales increases.  We anticipate expanding by approximately 215 to 225 stores
in 1999, 24 of which have been added as of March 1, 1999. Our new store openings
in 1999 will continue to be concentrated  within our existing eastern markets to
take  advantage of market  opportunities,  distribution  efficiencies  and field
management  efficiencies.  In 1999,  we expect to add  approximately  six to ten
stores in the western market. We also plan to selectively enter new markets.





Merchandising and Store Format

         Our primary  goal in  merchandising  is to offer a wide  assortment  of
products which exceed customer expectations of the value available for $1.00. We
seek to accomplish this goal by:

         o    offering a balanced mix of everyday core products and changing 
              selections in traditional variety store categories,

         o    maintaining a disciplined, global purchasing program, and

         o    emphasizing the effective presentation of merchandise in the 
              stores.

         Merchandise  Mix. Our  merchandise mix  distinguishes  Dollar Tree from
other discount variety stores selling at the $1.00 price point. Our stores offer
a well  stocked  selection  of core and  changing  products  within  traditional
variety store categories.  These categories include housewares,  seasonal goods,
candy and food, toys,  health and beauty care, party goods,  gifts,  stationery,
personal  accessories,  books and other  consumer  items.  The actual  items and
brands offered at any one time will vary.

         We use seasonal and, to a limited extent, selected closeout merchandise
to add to the variety and freshness of our stores' core products. Seasonal goods
include  Easter  gifts,  summer  toys,  back-to-school  products  and  Christmas
wrapping paper. We purchase closeout merchandise,  which management believes can
be effective in generating  recognized  value and excitement,  as  opportunities
present themselves,  but limit the percentage of total inventory  represented by
closeout  merchandise to less than 20%. The 98 Cent  Clearance  Centers have, in
the past, carried slightly more closeout  merchandise and slightly less seasonal
goods than the traditional Dollar Tree stores.

         The  merchandise  mix in the 98 Cent  Clearance  Center stores  focuses
considerably more on consumable products. While we expect the historical balance
between consumable and "impulse" merchandise for the West Coast stores to remain
relatively the same in 1999, within this merchandise mix we will focus on faster
selling  items  and  replace  lower  quality  goods  with  the  higher   quality
merchandise already carried in our eastern stores. We also expect to broaden the
selection of items available within particular categories,  such as gifts, party
goods, toys and seasonal goods.

         Purchasing.   Management  believes  that  our  disciplined   purchasing
program,  our  relationships  with our suppliers and the exclusive  focus of our
buying power at the $1.00 price point  contribute to our  successful  purchasing
strategy.  We believe that  offering  perceived,  as well as real,  value to our
customers while maintaining target merchandise margins in our purchasing program
is critical to our success.

         We purchase  merchandise from 850 to 900 vendors annually,  buying both
directly from  manufacturers  and indirectly from trading companies and brokers.
No vendor accounted for more than 10% of total  merchandise  purchased in any of
the  last  five  calendar  years.  New  vendors  are  used  frequently  to offer
competitive, yet varied, product selection and to maintain high levels of value.

         We deal with our suppliers  principally on an order-by-order  basis. We
have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurance of continued
supply or pricing.  Management  believes that a continuing and increasing supply
of  quality  merchandise  suited to a $1.00  sales  price will be  available  in
sufficient quantities to meet our plans for future growth.

         Imports.  A majority of the  merchandise  sold in Dollar Tree stores is
imported from foreign sources, particularly China. On a combined basis, in 1997,
we imported approximately 29% of our merchandise based on cost and approximately
33% based on retail,  directly from vendors  located  abroad,  primarily in Hong
Kong and Taiwan  (through  which our Chinese  imports flow),  Thailand,  Mexico,
Indonesia,  Italy and  India.  In 1998,  we  imported  approximately  36% of our
merchandise  based on cost and  approximately  40% based on retail.  In 1999, we
expect imports to account for  approximately  40% of total  purchases at retail.
Historically,  Step  Ahead  did not  purchase  a  significant  amount  of direct
imports.  However,  we believe that a portion of the  non-consumable  goods both
companies  purchased from domestic vendors was indirectly  imported from foreign
countries.

         China is the source for a large  majority  of our  direct  imports.  We
believe it is also the largest source of our indirect imports.  Our imports from
China are generally  subject to favorable  United  States import duties  because
China is currently  afforded "most favored  nation" status by the United States.
This status for China is reviewed  annually by the United States  government and
is currently  extended through July 2, 1999. As a result of unresolved trade and
other  issues  between  the  United  States  and  China,  there  is  significant
opposition in the U.S.  Congress to the renewal of "most favored  nation" status
for China. Loss of this status for China or the 




imposition of trade restrictions such as punitive tariffs or duties could impose
significantly  higher purchasing costs on us. Although no punitive import duties
are currently  imposed,  these duties could equal as much as 100% of the cost of
certain Chinese goods.

         The  countries  of  Southeast  Asia have been  involved  in an economic
crisis   characterized   by  currency   devaluations,   rising  interest  rates,
deteriorating  economic  growth and  declining  capital  markets.  In 1998,  the
Southeast Asia crisis  resulted in a shortage of shipping  containers  available
for shipments from Asia.  Continued  financial  pressure on overseas  markets or
fluctuations  in the value of the  Chinese or Hong Kong  currency  may result in
disruptions in the sourcing of goods, increases in the cost of goods, reductions
in the  quality  of goods,  product  shortages,  nonshipment  of  goods,  and/or
strikes.

         While we  believe  we could  find  alternative  sources  of  supply  in
response  to an  increase  in  tariffs,  duties or other  import  costs or to an
interruption  or  delay  in the  supply  of  goods  from  foreign  sources,  the
transition  to  alternative  sources may not occur in time to meet our  demands.
Also,  products from  alternative  sources may be of lesser  quality and/or more
expensive  than those we  currently  purchase.  The  result  could be a material
adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

         Visual Merchandising.  Management believes that the presentation of our
merchandise is critical to communicating  value and excitement to our customers.
Our stores are attractively  designed,  using vibrant colors, uniform decorative
signs and accent lighting,  and provide carpeting and background music to create
an inviting atmosphere for shoppers. We use a variety of merchandising fixtures,
including slat walls,  bins and shelving,  and adjustable  gift displays.  These
fixtures allow us the flexibility to rearrange  merchandise to feature  seasonal
products. Some of these fixtures have been specifically designed for us, such as
the  customized  shelf  display  designed to promote our polyresin and porcelain
gift  products  at the front of the stores.  We  maintain a field  merchandising
group,  including store display  coordinators,  who maintain a consistent visual
presentation  in stores  throughout  the chain and  expedite  the store  opening
process. We rely on attractive exterior signs and in-store  merchandising as the
primary  forms  of  advertising.   We  generally  do  not  use  other  forms  of
advertising, except when promoting the opening of a new store.

         The wide variety,  value and freshness of our merchandise together with
the  lively  appearance  of the  store  create  excitement  for  customers  that
management  believes  results in high store  traffic,  high sales  volume and an
environment  which  encourages  "impulse"  purchases.  After-hours  stocking and
"recovery" of the stores help  maintain the stores'  clean,  neat  appearance as
well as ensure that the maximum amount of merchandise is displayed. The size and
layout of the  store,  merchandising  by  category,  our $1.00  price  point and
convenient locations combine for a time-efficient shopping experience.

         Centralized  check-out  at the front of the  store and the  even-dollar
pricing  policy ensure that  customers  are not kept  waiting.  We do not have a
point-of-sale  system. Credit and debit cards are accepted at a select number of
stores.

         During 1999, the layout of the 98 Cent Clearance  Center stores will be
changed to more closely  resemble our eastern stores.  We will install  shelving
and display  fixtures  consistent  with current Dollar Tree standards and update
the  checkout  area for better  efficiency.  We intend to update these stores to
create a more attractive, inviting atmosphere.

Site Selection and Store Locations

         We maintain a disciplined,  cost-sensitive  approach to site selection,
favoring strip centers and selected  enclosed  malls. In the last five years, we
have opened primarily strip center based stores.  These stores have historically
required lower initial capital investment and generated higher operating margins
than mall stores. We favor opening new stores in strip center locations anchored
by strong mass  merchandisers such as Wal-Mart,  Kmart and Target,  whose target
customers  management believes are similar to those of Dollar Tree. We also open
stores in neighborhood  centers anchored by large grocery retailers.  Our stores
have been successful in major  metropolitan  areas,  mid-sized  cities and small
towns with  populations  under 25,000.  Management  believes that our stores can
perform well in a variety of locations. Management also believes that our stores
have a relatively  small  shopping  radius,  which allows the  concentration  of
multiple stores in a single market. Our ability to open new stores is contingent
upon,  among other factors,  locating  suitable sites and negotiating  favorable
lease terms.

Larger Store Format

         The  format of our Dollar  Tree  stores  has  evolved  over time from a
predominantly  mall-based  store,  averaging  2,500 to 3,000 square feet, in the
late 1980s to a preference for strip center locations of approximately  4,500 to
5,000 square feet in more recent years.  Prior to our acquisition of the 98 Cent
Clearance  Centers,  we began testing a larger  Dollar Tree store 




format.  These larger stores range from 7,500 to 14,000 square feet, and provide
a better  opportunity  to display our  variety  store  merchandise.  Although we
characterize  a 10,000  square foot store as  "larger,"  we believe that this is
still "small box" retailing within the discount retail industry.  Our management
does not view these stores as a departure from our core  business,  but rather a
variation on our core philosophies of value, variety and convenience.

         In these larger stores, a lower profile gondola  fixture,  wider aisles
and lower shelf  display  allow the customer to see  virtually  the whole store,
which  creates a sense of openness  and space.  The  merchandise  mix  displayed
within the larger Dollar Tree stores is largely  identical to that in all of our
Dollar Tree  stores,  with our ongoing  focus on  offering a wide  selection  of
variety  merchandise.  Because of the added space in the larger  stores,  we are
able to display a larger selection of certain items,  such as picture frames and
candles, and to create attractive displays, such as a gift wrap center.

         During 1998, we opened four larger format stores and remodeled three of
our existing Dollar Tree stores to this format.  Due to the short amount of time
that these stores have been open with this format,  we do not have actual annual
operating  results  available.  Our management  believes that sales in the large
format Dollar Tree stores will range from $1.2 to $1.5 million, and will produce
store-level operating margins similar to margins historically seen at the Dollar
Tree stores.  We expect to open 20 to 25 of these larger  stores during 1999. We
will  continue to locate these  stores in markets  that serve the middle  income
customer  looking for a convenient  shopping  experience.  We expect  future new
store square  footage to range from  approximately  4,500 to 10,000 square feet.
Our goal is to select the size which we believe  can best serve our  customer in
each location.

Warehousing And Distribution

         Warehousing and distribution  are managed  centrally from our corporate
headquarters,  located on the same site as our Chesapeake, Virginia distribution
center. We view maintaining strong warehousing and distribution  support for our
stores as a  critical  element  of our  expansion  strategy  and our  ability to
maintain a low cost operating structure. As we continue our expansion, we intend
to open new units in regions around our distribution centers.

         Our  financial  results  depend  in large  part on  whether  we get our
inventory  from   suppliers  to  stores  in  a  timely  and  efficient   manner.
Substantially  all of our  inventory  is  shipped  or  picked up  directly  from
suppliers  and  delivered to our  distribution  centers  where the  inventory is
processed and then distributed to stores.

         We believe that our distribution  centers currently allow us to service
over 2,000 stores.  However,  the California facility can only service 75 stores
and we currently have sixty-six 98 Cent Clearance Center stores.  As a result, a
new leased distribution center will be built in 1999 in Stockton, California and
is expected to open in early 2000. For more  information  on this facility,  see
"Properties" on page 10.

         Our  substantial  distribution  center  capacity  allows us to  receive
manufacturers'  early  shipment  discounts and buy large  quantities of goods at
favorable  prices.  In  addition,  during  the past  several  years we have used
off-site  facilities to  accommodate  large  shipments of seasonal  merchandise.
Since the distribution  centers  maintain  back-up  inventory and provide weekly
delivery to each store,  in-store inventory  requirements are reduced and we are
able to operate with smaller stores than would otherwise be required.  Off-hours
stocking,  as well as  off-site  storage  space,  is used to support the stores'
inventory turnover.

         Our merchandise  replenishment  software generates  distribution models
that can be based on variables such as store volume and certain  demographic and
physical  characteristics  of the  stores.  Each store has a weekly and  monthly
budgeted inventory requirement based on our projected sales for the year and our
existing  inventory levels.  Stores receive weekly shipments of merchandise from
distribution centers based on their anticipated inventory  requirements for each
week and  communication  via telephone or electronic mail between store managers
and the distribution group. We have the ability to make two weekly deliveries to
high  volume  stores  during the busy  Christmas  season.  The  majority  of our
inventory  is delivered to the stores by contract  carriers,  supplemented  by a
small internal fleet of less than 50 tractors.

         The orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process depends
on effective  management  of our  distribution  centers and strict  adherence to
shipping  schedules  (especially  those from the Far East).  We are  continually
looking  for  opportunities  to reduce our freight  and  distribution  costs and
periodically  evaluate various delivery options. We may not have anticipated all
of the changing demands our expanding operations will impose on our distribution
network.  Events beyond our control,  such as  disruptions  in operations due to
labor  disagreements  or shipping  problems,  may result in unexpected  costs or
delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores.




Competition

         The retail industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include mass
merchandisers  (such as  Wal-Mart),  discount  stores (such as Dollar  General),
closeout  stores (such as Odd Lots and Big Lots) and other  variety  stores.  In
past years,  our  principal  competitors  have not been other single price point
retailers.  However, management expects that our expansion plans, as well as the
expansion  plans  of  other  single  price  point   retailers,   will  bring  us
increasingly  into direct  competition  with other single price point retailers.
For example,  we expect  competition to increase with such companies as 99 Cents
Only in California and Dollar Express in the  Northeast.  Increased  competition
could have a material adverse effect on business and financial results.

Trademarks

         We are the owners of Federal  service  mark  registrations  for "Dollar
Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, "1 Dollar Tree" together with the related design,
and "One Price . . . One  Dollar,"  each of which  expires  in 2003 or later.  A
small  number of our stores  operate  under the name "Only  $1.00," for which we
have not obtained a service mark registration; if we were required to change the
name of these stores,  we do not believe that this would have a material adverse
effect on our business.  We also own a concurrent use  registration  for "Dollar
Bill$" and the related logo which expire in 2005.  During 1997,  we acquired the
rights to use trade names  previously  owned by Everything's A Dollar,  a former
competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included
in the purchase,  including the marks  "Everything's  $1.00 We Mean Everything,"
and "Everything's  $1.00," the registration of which is pending, and "The Dollar
Store," the registration of which expires in 2001. In 1998, with the acquisition
of  Step  Ahead,  we  became  the  owner  of  additional  Federal  service  mark
registrations  which include "98 Cent  Clearance  Center" and "98 Cent Clearance
Centers" together with the related design. These marks expire in 2003.

         We also  occasionally  use  various  brand  names under which we market
products,  although  management believes that these brand names are not material
to our operations.

Seasonality

         Dollar  Tree has  historically  experienced  and  expects  to  continue
to experience seasonal  fluctuations in its net sales,  operating income and net
income.  See "Management's  Discussion and  Analysis--Seasonality  and Quarterly
Fluctuations."

Employees

         We  employed  approximately  16,000  employees  at December  31,  1998,
approximately  3,800 of whom were full-time and 12,200 part-time.  The number of
part-time  employees  fluctuates  depending  on  seasonal  needs.  None  of  our
employees  are  currently  represented  by a labor union.  On March 31, 1994 and
March 20, 1996, the employees of our Virginia  distribution center voted against
union representation by the International  Brotherhood of Teamsters in elections
certified by the National  Labor  Relations  Board.  During 1998,  the Teamsters
attempted to organize our employees at our Chesapeake and Chicago, Illinois area
distribution  centers.  In the future,  our employees at any of our distribution
centers may elect to be  represented  by a union.  We consider our  relationship
with employees to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions
of operations due to labor disagreements.




                                                                   
Item 2.  PROPERTIES

         As of December  31,  1998,  we operated  1,156  stores in 31 states.  A
summary of our  historical  unit  growth by state  over the past three  years is
presented below (number represents stores open as of the date indicated):

                                                      December 31,          
                                       ---------------------------------------
                                       1996              1997             1998
                                       ----              ----             ----
      SOUTHEAST:
        Florida....................      85                96              117
        North Carolina.............      52                61               72
        Georgia....................      50                60               71
        Tennessee..................      37                41               47
        South Carolina.............      27                35               44
        Alabama....................      33                38               41
        Mississippi................      15                20               23
      MIDWEST:
        Michigan...................      49                57               69
        Illinois...................      47                58               65
        Ohio.......................      46                49               54
        Wisconsin..................       7                15               30
        Indiana....................      27                28               30
        Missouri...................      13                22               25
        Kentucky...................      15                19               24
        Minnesota..................       3                 6                9
        Iowa.......................       1                 2                3
      MID-ATLANTIC:
        Virginia...................      72                84               99
        Pennsylvania...............      45                51               57
        Maryland...................      39                47               54
        West Virginia..............       9                11               17
        Delaware...................       2                 3                3
      SOUTHCENTRAL:
        Texas......................      16                20               31
        Arkansas...................       9                12               17
        Louisiana..................      12                15               16
        Oklahoma...................       0                 0                4
      NORTHEAST:
        New York...................      16                23               45
        New Jersey.................      10                14               16
        Connecticut................       0                 0                5
        Massachusetts..............       0                 0                2
      WEST
        California.................      46                56               63
        Nevada.....................       2                 3                3
                                      ----------------------------------------
      Total........................     785               946            1,156
                                      ========================================


         Of the 1,156 stores open at December 31, 1998, the majority are located
in the Southeastern and Midwestern  regions of the United States.  Additionally,
we operate four distribution  centers, one each in Chesapeake,  Virginia;  Olive
Branch, Mississippi; the Chicago, Illinois area; and the Sacramento,  California
area. We anticipate expanding by approximately 215 to 225 stores in 1999.

         We currently  lease all of our existing store locations and expect that
our policy of leasing rather than owning stores will continue as we expand.  Our
leases  typically  provide for a short initial lease term and give us the option
to extend. Management believes that this lease strategy enhances our flexibility
to pursue various expansion and relocation opportunities resulting from changing
market conditions. Our ability to open new stores is contingent upon:

         o    locating satisfactory sites,

         o    negotiating favorable leases,

         o    obtaining necessary financing, and

         o    recruiting and training additional qualified management personnel.

         As current  leases  expire,  we believe  that we will be able either to
obtain  lease  renewals  if desired for present  store  locations,  or to obtain
leases for equivalent or better  locations in the same general area. To date, we
have not experienced difficulty in either renewing leases for existing locations
or securing leases for suitable  locations for new stores.  We may have violated
prohibitions  against a change in  control of Dollar  Tree in a minority  of our
leases.  Many of our 



leases  contain  provisions  with which we do not comply,  including  provisions
requiring  purchase of insurance upon  leasehold  improvements  and/or  property
located  in the  stores,  requiring  us to  advertise  or  prohibiting  us  from
operating  another  store within a specified  radius.  Management  believes that
these  provisions  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the  business or
financial position of Dollar Tree based primarily on our belief that we maintain
good relations with the landlords,  that most of our leases are at market rents,
and that we have historically been able to secure leases for suitable locations.

         The following table includes information about the distribution centers
we currently have in use. It shows where those distribution centers are located;
whether we own the facility or lease it, and, if leased, when the lease expires;
the  overall  size in square feet of the  facility;  and the number of stores we
believe can be served from each distribution center.


         Our Store Support Center in Chesapeake,  Virginia, was built in 1997 to
replace our  original  location in  Norfolk,  Virginia.  The lease on our former
Norfolk  location  expires in December 2009 and the facility has been subleased.
The  distribution  center in Olive Branch,  Mississippi,  became  operational in
January 1999 and replaced a former location in Memphis,  Tennessee. The lease on
our former Memphis  distribution  center  expires in September  2005; we hope to
sublease this facility in the future (see "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations").

         The Chesapeake and Olive Branch  distribution  centers contain advanced
materials  handling  technologies,  including an automated  conveyor and sorting
system, radio-frequency inventory tracking equipment and specialized information
systems.  The Chicago  area and  Sacramento  area  distribution  centers are not
automated.  The Sacramento area  distribution  center is also supported by three
satellite locations totaling approximately 220,000 square feet.

         We expect to replace the  distribution  center in the  Sacramento  area
with a new leased facility in Stockton, California. Construction of this 317,000
square foot,  non-automated facility is scheduled to begin in the second quarter
of 1999.  Management  anticipates operation of this distribution center to begin
in early 2000.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Alper Lawsuit.  On January 31, 1996, we bought all of the capital stock
of Dollar Bills, Inc. pursuant to a stock purchase agreement. In March and April
1996, Michael and Pamela Alper,  former  shareholders of Dollar Bills,  together
with a corporation they control,  filed lawsuits in the state and federal courts
in  Illinois,  against  our company  and one of our  employees,  relating to the
Dollar Bills transaction. The lawsuits sought to recover compensatory damages of
not less than $10.0 million, punitive damages, attorney's fees and other relief.
The plaintiffs claimed contract violations, fraud, misrepresentation,  and other
violations in connection  with our purchase of the  wholesale  operations  which
were owned by Dollar Bills and continued by Dollar Tree. Plaintiffs subsequently
dismissed  their suit in state court  voluntarily.  On November  26,  1996,  the
federal court dismissed all counts of the plaintiffs' lawsuit against us and the
co-defendant.  Plaintiffs'  federal  securities  and  federal  antitrust  claims
against us were  dismissed  with  prejudice and the state claims were  dismissed
without prejudice. No litigation is currently pending against us in this matter.
However,  in light of the  history of this  dispute,  the Alpers may  attempt to
refile their state law claims in the future.

         We believe  that the  ultimate  outcome of this  matter will not have a
material  adverse  effect on our financial  condition or results of  operations.
Nevertheless,  there can be no assurance  regarding the ultimate  outcome of any
future litigation, and any such litigation may have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition or results of operations.

         Consumer  Products  Liability.  We recalled  (in  cooperation  with the
Consumer  Products  Safety  Commission)  approximately  155,000  retractable dog
leashes  which we sold between  November  1997 and January  1998.  We learned of
several minor injuries  involving the leashes,  and one leash allegedly caused a
serious  personal  injury  in  January  1998  which  has  resulted  in a product
liability  claim.  The claimant has  indicated  she may seek  punitive  damages.
Management  does not believe that  potential  claims arising from these injuries
will have a material adverse effect on our company. However,  additional serious
injuries giving rise to potential claims could occur in the future.





         Additionally, the company is a party to ordinary routine litigation and
proceedings  incidental to our  business,  including  certain  matters which may
occasionally  be asserted by the Consumer  Products Safety  Commission,  none of
which is individually or in the aggregate material to the company.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of security  holders  during the
fourth quarter of our 1998 calendar year.


                                     PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         Dollar  Tree's  common  stock  has  been  traded  on The  Nasdaq  Stock
Market(R)  under the symbol "DLTR" since our initial public offering on March 6,
1995.  The  following  table  gives the high and low sales  prices of our common
stock as  reported  by Nasdaq for the  periods  indicated,  restated  to reflect
3-for-2 stock splits effected as stock dividends in July 1997 and June 1998.


         On March 15, 1999, the last reported sale price for our common stock as
quoted  by  Nasdaq  was  $37.25  per  share.  As  of  March  15,  1999,  we  had
approximately 450 shareholders of record.

         We anticipate that all of our income in the foreseeable  future will be
retained for the  development and expansion of our business and the repayment of
indebtedness.  Management  does not  anticipate  paying  dividends on our common
stock in the foreseeable  future.  Additionally,  our credit facilities  contain
financial covenants which restrict our ability to pay dividends.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         This section of our report presents our selected financial data for the
last five years. This information is different from the information  reported in
last year's table  because we merged with Step Ahead  Investments,  Inc.  during
1998. We accounted for the merger as a  pooling of interests,  which required us
to combine  the  financial  statements  of Dollar Tree with those of Step Ahead,
retroactively.  The following table  identifies the reporting  periods that have
been combined:



         After January 1, 1995 and prior to the merger with Dollar Tree in 1998,
Step Ahead  reported  financial  results based on a 52-week period that ended on
the last Sunday in January.  For this reason,  our combined  calendar  year 1998
financial statements include only an 11-month period for Step Ahead.

         On January 31, 1996, we bought all of the stock of Dollar  Bills,  Inc.
in an acquisition  accounted for as a purchase.  For this reason,  the operating
results for the year ended  December



31,  1996 only  include 11 months of results  for Dollar  Bills.  The  operating
results for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1995 do not include any Dollar
Bills results.

         The selected income  statement and balance sheet items for December 31,
1996, 1997 and 1998 come from our  consolidated  financial  statements that have
been  audited  by KPMG  LLP,  independent  certified  public  accountants.  This
information  should  be read in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated  financial
statements and related notes, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations"  and other  financial  information  found
elsewhere in this report.


Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Introduction

         In  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis,  we  explain  the  general
financial condition and the results of operations for our company, including:

         o    what factors affect our business,

         o    what our earnings and costs were in 1997 and 1998,

         o    why those earnings and costs were different from the year before,

         o    where our earnings come from,

         o    how all of this affects our overall financial condition,

         o    what our expenditures for capital projects were in 1996, 1997, and
              1998 and what we expect them to be in 1999, and

         o    where funds will come from to pay for future expenditures.

         As you read Management's  Discussion and Analysis, it may be helpful to
refer to our consolidated financial statements,  included in Item 8 of this Form
10-K,  which  present  the results of  operations  for 1996,  1997 and 1998.  In
Management's  Discussion and Analysis, we analyze and explain the annual changes
in some specific line items in the consolidated financial statements.

         You may notice some changes in this year's discussion, compared to past
years.  The Securities  and Exchange  Commission  has recently  required  public
companies to write certain financial documents in plain English. As a result, we
have  rewritten  our entire  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  section in
language that is more easily  understood.  In addition,  we recently merged with
Step Ahead  Investments,  Inc.,  the operator of 98 Cent Clearance  Centers.  We
accounted  for the  merger  as a  "pooling  of  interests."  Under  this form of
accounting,  we combine the  financial  statements  of Dollar Tree with those of
Step Ahead, not only since the date of the merger, but also retroactively.  As a
result,  we have  adjusted  our  consolidated  financial  statements  to reflect
results of operations as if Step Ahead had been a part of Dollar Tree throughout
all of the years  discussed.  For each period  presented,  the outstanding  Step
Ahead shares have been  converted  into Dollar Tree shares based on the exchange
ratio used in the merger.  This has the effect of changing  our prior net income
per  share  calculations.  Our  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  section
reflects the merger with Step Ahead under these "pooling-of-interests" rules.




         Before the merger  with  Dollar  Tree,  Step Ahead  reported  financial
results  based on a 52-week  period  that ended on the last  Sunday in  January.
Dollar  Tree's  fiscal  year ends on December  31. In  combining  our  financial
statements with those of Step Ahead, we used Step Ahead's  historical  reporting
periods most comparable to Dollar Tree's, as follows:



Our combined calendar year 1998 financial  statements  include only an 11- month
period for Step Ahead.

Key Events and Recent Developments

         Since the beginning of 1997,  several events  occurred which had or are
expected to have a significant effect on our results of operations. When reading
Management's Discussion and Analysis, you should keep in mind these key events:

         o    In  1997,  we built a new  headquarters  and  distribution  center
              facility,  known  as our  Store  Support  Center,  in  Chesapeake,
              Virginia.  The 400,000  square  foot  distribution  center,  which
              replaced our original location in Norfolk, opened in January 1998.

         o    On December 10, 1998, we completed our merger with Step Ahead.  We
              reserved or issued  approximately  2,152,000  shares of our common
              stock  for  Step  Ahead's  existing  shareholders  and its  option
              holders.  Step Ahead  operated  sixty-six  stores in northern  and
              central California and Nevada under the name of "98 Cent Clearance
              Center."

         o    In January 1999, we opened a new 425,000 square foot  distribution
              center in Olive Branch,  Mississippi,  which replaces our Memphis,
              Tennessee facility.

         o    In March 1999, we were in the process of  negotiating an operating
              lease agreement for a new distribution center. This  facility,  
              which  is  expected  to  be  located  in Stockton,  California, 
              will replace the leased site located in the Sacramento, California
              area which services the 98 Cent Clearance Center stores.

Results of Operations

         In this section,  we discuss in detail our 1997 and 1998 operations and
factors affecting them. Our net sales derive from the sale of merchandise in our
retail stores.  Two major factors tend to affect our net sales trends.  First is
our  success at opening  new stores or adding new stores  through  acquisitions.
Second,  sales at our existing stores change from one year to the next. We refer
to this as a change in  "comparable  store net sales,"  because we compare  only
those stores which are open for the entire two years being compared.

         Most  retailers can increase the price of their  merchandise as well as
sell more merchandise in order to increase their  "comparable  store net sales."
As a fixed price point retailer, we do not have the ability to raise our prices,
so  our  comparable  store  net  sales  will  only  increase  if  we  sell  more
merchandise.  In 1999,  however,  we expect to  increase  the price point in the
sixty-six 98 Cent  Clearance  Centers from $0.98 to $1.00,  which we  anticipate
will only have a minor impact on our comparable store net sales. We believe that
our future  comparable  store net sales  increases,  if any,  will be lower than
those we have  experienced in the past. Our internal  business plan continues to
call for a two to three percent increase in comparable store net sales in 1999.

         Our  management  anticipates  that  future net sales  growth  will come
mostly from new store openings.  We plan to expand by 215 to 225 stores in 1999.
We also expect our average store size to increase in 1999, which we believe will
result in a decrease in our average net sales per selling square foot.

         Increases in expenses have a negative impact on our operating  results.
This is  especially  true  since we cannot  pass on  increased  expenses  to our
customers by increasing our merchandise prices. Consequently, our future success
will depend in large part on our ability to control costs.





         The following table expresses  certain  expenses as a percentage of net
sales:


1997 Compared to 1998

         Net Sales. Net sales increased 27.0% from $723.2 million for 1997 to 
$918.8  million  for 1998.  We  attribute  this $195.6  million  increase to two
factors:

         o    Approximately 80% of the increase came from stores opened in 1997 
              and 1998, which are not included in our comparable store net sales
              calculation.

         o    Approximately  20% of the increase came from comparable  store net
              sales growth.  Comparable  store sales increased 6.8% during 1998.
              This comparable store net sales  calculation  includes sales at 98
              Cent  Clearance  Center  stores  for the  11-month  periods  ended
              December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998.

We believe net sales increased in comparable stores because:

         o    We stocked a more  consistent quantity of basic  consumable  goods
              during the first half of 1998.

         o    Customers purchased a higher average number of items, and more 
              customers visited our stores.

         o    The Easter selling season lengthened because Easter shifted from 
              March 31 in 1997 to April 12 in 1998.

         o    We continued to improve the quality and variety of merchandise
              offered in our stores.

We opened 217 new stores and closed  seven stores  during 1998,  compared to 162
new stores  opened and one store closed the previous  year.  We acquired nine of
the new stores in 1998 from two small dollar store operators.

         Gross Profit. Gross profit increased $81.9 million, or 30.9%. Our gross
profit  expressed  as a  percentage  of net sales is called  our  "gross  profit
margin." Our gross profit margin  increased from 36.6% in 1997 to 37.7% in 1998.
If you exclude merger related costs otherwise included in cost of sales (related
to merchandise markdowns), the gross profit margin increased to 37.9%.
This increase  occurred mainly because certain costs declined as a percentage of
net sales:

         o    Our  increased  sales  volume  gave us greater  buying  power with
              merchandise vendors, which in turn lowered our overall merchandise
              costs  expressed  as a  percentage  of net sales.  We believe that
              favorable  foreign  currency  rates had only a minor effect on the
              lower cost of our imported goods.

         o    We imported a higher percentage of our goods.

         o    We experienced  lower occupancy costs expressed as a percentage of
              net sales because  occupancy  costs tend to be mostly  fixed.  The
              ability to lower fixed costs as a percentage  of net sales because
              of a growth in sales is known in the industry as "leverage."

         In 1998,  we brought in an  unusually  large  amount of imports,  which
generally  cost less than domestic  product,  and these goods improved our gross
profit margin for the year.  Management expects the amount of imports in 1999 to
return to levels similar to 1997 and prior years.  We 




also intend in 1999 to buy more  consumable  items,  such as food and  household
chemicals,  to meet customer  demand.  Consumables  are  generally  domestically
produced and carry a higher cost than imports.  Management  expects the changing
merchandise mix will result in a reduction in gross profit margin in 1999.

         In May 1998,  certain ocean shippers  increased freight charges by $300
per container.  The higher charges,  which apply only to imported  goods,  added
approximately  $700,000 to our freight  costs.  More increases in shipping costs
have been proposed for 1999. For more  discussion on this topic,  please see the
section entitled "Inflation and Other Economic Factors" later in this analysis.

         Our new  distribution  centers are  designed to be more  efficient  and
improve our ability to service stores.  However,  since the distribution centers
are not yet operating at optimal  capacity,  we don't expect to see  significant
cost savings due to  efficiencies  in 1999.  Additionally,  in 1999,  we will be
preparing to move to a new leased distribution  center in California.  This will
keep our distribution center costs at a level similar to 1998.

         SGA  Expenses.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  (SGA)  expenses
increased  $48.7 million or 27.1%.  As a percentage  of net sales,  SGA expenses
remained constant at 24.9%. If you exclude merger related expenses, SGA expenses
decreased as a percentage of net sales from 24.9% in 1997 to 24.5% in 1998. This
decline happened primarily because we were able to leverage fixed costs across a
higher  sales  volume  because  of  a  high  comparable  store  sales  increase.
Depreciation and amortization  increased $6.0 million, from 2.0% as a percentage
of net sales in 1997 to 2.2% in 1998.  This  percentage  increase  is mainly the
result of depreciation related to the new Store Support Center in Chesapeake.

         During  1998,  we recorded a $1.125  million  loss  contingency  in SGA
expenses  due to our  uncertainty  about  being  able to  sublease  our  Memphis
facility  for  an  amount  that  would  cover  our  remaining  payments.  We are
responsible  for rent and  pass-through  costs  under the  Memphis  lease  until
September  2005, at a current annual cost of  approximately  $745,000.  We could
record up to $400,000 in SGA expenses in 1999 if a sublease is not obtained.

         Operating  Income.  Our  operating  income  increased  $33.2 million or
39.1%. As a percentage of net sales,  operating  income  increased from 11.7% in
1997 to 12.8%  in 1998.  If you  exclude  merger  related  costs  and  expenses,
operating  income increased from $84.7 million in 1997 to $123.2 million in 1998
and increased as a percentage of net sales from 11.7% to 13.4%.  These increases
were  attributable  to our improved  gross profit margin and the decrease in our
SGA expenses discussed above.

         Interest  Expense.  Interest  expense  increased $0.9 million from $3.5
million in 1997 to $4.4 million in 1998. This increase was primarily a result of
higher levels of debt in 1998 compared to 1997 resulting from borrowings related
to our two new  distribution  centers.  In  1998,  we  capitalized  $402,000  of
interest relating to the construction of the Olive Branch facility.

1996 Compared to 1997

         Net Sales. Net sales increased 29.4% from $558.8 million for 1996 to
$723.2 million for 1997. We attribute this $164.4 million increase to two major 
factors:

         o    Approximately 77% came from stores opened in 1996 and 1997, which 
              are not included in our comparable store net sales calculation.

         o    Approximately  23% came from  comparable  store net sales  growth.
              Comparable   store  sales   increased  7.6%  for  the  year.  This
              comparable  store net sales  calculation  includes sales at Dollar
              Bills stores for the 12-month  periods ended December 31, 1996 and
              1997.

Because our products sell for a fixed price,  the increase in  comparable  store
net sales was a direct result of more items sold. We believe net sales increased
in comparable stores because:

         o    We carried more consistent levels of inventory throughout the 
              year, particularly in the first quarter.

         o    More customers  shopped in our stores  compared to 1996,  combined
              with a slight  increase in the average  number of items  purchased
              per customer.

         o    We continued to improve the quality and variety of merchandise
              offered.

         o    We saw improved  sales in the Dollar Bills stores,  partly because
              we changed their  merchandise  throughout  1996 to include more of
              the items regularly carried by Dollar Tree.





We opened 162 new stores and closed one store during  1997,  compared to opening
117 new stores and  closing  six stores  during  1996.  We also added 136 Dollar
Bills stores on January 31, 1996.

         Gross Profit.  Gross profit  increased  $61.9 million,  or 30.6%.  As a
percentage of net sales,  gross profit increased from 36.3% to 36.6%,  primarily
due to improved merchandise costs (including freight) which was partially offset
by an increase in  distribution  costs as a percentage of net sales.  Throughout
1996,  management  shifted the  merchandise mix at Dollar Bills stores away from
their  historical  consumable  product  emphasis to more  closely  resemble  the
merchandise mix at traditional Dollar Tree stores;  this change in mix benefited
merchandise  costs in 1997.  Distribution  costs  increased as a result of costs
inherent in transitioning  operations to the new Chesapeake  distribution center
and in the  installation  of our new  warehouse  management  system in all three
distribution centers early in 1997.

         SGA Expenses.  SGA expenses  increased  $40.5  million,  or 29.0%,  but
decreased  slightly as a percentage  of net sales from 25.0% in 1996 to 24.9% in
1997.  This decrease,  as a percentage of net sales,  is primarily the result of
additional  expenses in 1996 of  approximately  $2.5  million as a result of the
Dollar Bills  acquisition and litigation.  Amortization of goodwill  relating to
the Dollar Bills  acquisition  amounted to $1.9 million for 1997. If you exclude
the  expenses  incurred in 1996  related to the Dollar  Bills  acquisition,  SGA
expenses increased as a percentage of sales from 24.5% in 1996 to 24.9% in 1997.
This increase was primarily  due to an increase of  approximately  $2 million in
payroll  costs  resulting  from the  federally  mandated  increase in the hourly
minimum wage.

         Operating Income.  Operating income increased $21.5 million,  or 33.9%,
from $63.2  million for 1996 to $84.7  million for 1997.  As a percentage of net
sales,  operating income rose from 11.3% to 11.7% during the same period for the
reasons noted above.

         Interest  Expense.  Interest  expense  decreased $2.2 million from $5.6
million in 1996 to $3.5 million in 1997.  This decline was primarily a result of
lower levels of debt in 1997 compared to 1996, when we had increased  borrowings
related to the purchase of Dollar  Bills.  In 1997, we  capitalized  $916,000 of
interest relating to the construction of the Chesapeake facility.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

         Our business  requires capital primarily to open new stores and operate
existing  stores.  Our working  capital  requirements  for  existing  stores are
seasonal in nature and typically reach their peak in the months of September and
October. Historically, we have met our seasonal working capital requirements for
existing stores and funded our store expansion program from internally generated
funds and borrowings under our credit facilities.

         The following table compares certain cash-related information for 1996,
1997 and 1998:



We generally  expended net cash used in investing  activities to open new stores
and to meet the following additional needs:

         o    $52.2 million (net of cash acquired) for the purchase of Dollar
              Bills in 1996,

         o    $30.0 million for the construction of the Chesapeake Store Support
              Center in 1997, and

         o    $17.9 million for part of the construction of the Olive Branch 
              distribution center in 1998. We expect to spend another $1 to
              $2 million on that project in 1999.

Net funds  provided  by  financing  activities  reflects  funds  which came from
sources  other than normal  operations.  We obtained  funds from the exercise of
stock options and the following sources:

         o    In 1996, we received $25.3 million from public offering  proceeds.
              The proceeds  were reduced by the repayment of  subordinated  debt
              and notes payable to banks.





         o    In 1997, we received $30.0 million from the issuance of senior 
              notes.

         o    In 1998,  we received  $16.5 million from the issuance of callable
              bonds related to the construction of the Olive Branch distribution
              facility.  These  funds  were  reduced by the  repayment  of notes
              payable to banks.

         Our  borrowings  under our bank  facility,  senior notes and bonds were
$46.5 million at December 31, 1998. Borrowings at December 31, 1997, amounted to
$40.0  million.  At December  31,  1998,  we had an  additional  $135.0  million
available through our bank facility. Of this amount, approximately $34.8 million
is  committed  to letters of credit  issued for the routine  purchase of foreign
merchandise.

Funding Requirements

         We expect to expand by approximately  215 to 225 stores during 1999 and
by approximately 250 stores during 2000. In 1998, the average investment per new
store, including capital expenditures,  initial inventory and pre-opening costs,
was  approximately  $186,500  per store.  Of our new Dollar Tree stores in 1998,
four were a slightly  larger  format  than our  traditional  prototype.  Average
investment  for these larger stores was  approximately  $315,000.  We expect our
cash needs for opening new stores in 1999,  including  approximately 20 to 25 of
the larger format stores,  to total  approximately $45 million and have budgeted
$25 million for capital  expenditures and $20 million for initial  inventory and
pre-opening  costs.  Our  total  planned  capital   expenditures  for  1999  are
approximately  $50  million,  including  planned  expenditures  for expanded and
relocated stores,  additional equipment for the distribution  centers,  computer
system  upgrades and  remodeling  and  upgrading  the 98 Cent  Clearance  Center
stores.

         We believe that we can adequately fund our planned capital expenditures
and  working  capital  requirements  for the next  several  years  from net cash
provided by operations and availability under our credit facility.

         Bank Credit Facility. On September 27, 1996, we entered into an amended
and restated credit agreement with our banks which currently provides for a $135
million  unsecured  revolving  credit  facility to be used for working  capital,
letters of credit and development  needs,  bearing  interest at the agent bank's
prime rate or LIBOR plus a spread,  at our option.  As of December 31, 1998, the
interest rate was approximately 6.1%. The credit agreement,  among other things,
requires the maintenance of certain specified ratios,  restricts the payments of
cash dividends and other distributions,  limits the amount of debt, and, through
March  1,  2000,  requires  that  aggregate  borrowings  must be paid  down to a
specified amount for at least 30 consecutive days at any time between December 1
and March 1. The facility matures May 31, 2002.

         During  1998,  our  banks  agreed to remove  the  requirement  that our
founding shareholders maintain a minimum beneficial ownership in the company and
to  eliminate   requirements   which   restricted  the  amount  of  our  capital
expenditures.

         Debt  Securities.  On April 30,  1997,  we issued $30  million of 7.29%
unsecured  senior  notes.  We used the  proceeds  to pay down a  portion  of the
revolving credit facility,  which enabled us to use that credit facility to fund
capital  expenditures  for the new Store Support Center.  We pay interest on the
notes  semiannually  on April 30 and October 30 each year and will pay principal
in five equal annual  installments  of $6 million  beginning April 30, 2000. The
note  holders  have the right to require us to prepay the notes in full  without
premium upon a change of control or upon certain asset  dispositions  or certain
other transactions we may make. The note agreements prohibit certain mergers and
consolidations in which our company is not the surviving  company,  require that
we maintain certain specified ratios,  require that the notes rank on a par with
our  other  debt and  limit the  amount  of debt we can  incur.  In the event of
default or a prepayment at our option, we must pay a prepayment penalty equal to
a make-whole amount.

         Revenue Bond  Financing.  On May 20, 1998, we entered into an agreement
with the Mississippi  Business Finance  Corporation  (MBFC) under which the MBFC
issued $19.0 million of Taxable  Variable Rate Demand Revenue Bonds. We used the
proceeds  from  the  bonds  to  finance  the  acquisition,   construction,   and
installation  of  land,  buildings,   machinery,   and  equipment  for  our  new
distribution  facility in Olive Branch,  Mississippi.  At December 31, 1998, the
balance  outstanding on the bonds was $16.5 million.  We begin  repayment of the
principal amount of the bonds on June 1, 2006, with a portion maturing each June
1 until the  final  portion  matures  on June 1,  2018.  The bonds do not have a
prepayment  penalty as long as the  interest  rate remains  variable.  The bonds
contain a demand provision and, therefore, outstanding amounts are classified as
current  liabilities.  We pay interest monthly based on a variable interest rate
which was 5.4% at December 31, 1998.  The bonds are supported by a $19.3 million
letter of credit  issued by one of our  existing  lending  banks.  The letter of
credit is renewable annually.  The letter of credit and reimbursement  agreement
requires that we maintain certain  specified ratios and restricts our ability to
pay dividends.






         Operating Lease Agreement. During March 1999, we were in the process of
negotiating an operating lease agreement to finance  construction costs to build
a new distribution center in Stockton, California. This distribution center will
replace the existing  facilities  located in the  Sacramento,  California  area.
Under  this  agreement,   the  lessor  purchases  the  property,  pays  for  the
construction  costs and  subsequently  leases  the  facility  to us.  Unlike the
Chesapeake  and Olive Branch  distribution  centers,  the new facility  will not
initially include an automated  conveyor and sorting system. The new facility is
expected to be operational in early 2000.

Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations

         We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales,  operating income
and net income,  and  management  expects this trend to continue.  Our quarterly
results of operations may also fluctuate  significantly as a result of a variety
of factors, including:

         o    the timing of certain holidays (such as Easter) which may fall in 
              different quarters from year to year,

         o    the timing of new store openings,

         o    the net sales contributed by new stores, and

         o    seasonal and other changes in the merchandise mix and in operating
              expenses.

         Our highest  sales periods are the  Christmas  and Easter  seasons.  We
generally realize a  disproportionate  amount of our net sales and a substantial
majority  of our  operating  and  net  income  during  the  fourth  quarter.  In
anticipation  of  increased  sales  activity  during these  months,  we purchase
substantial  amounts of  inventory  and hire a  significant  number of temporary
employees to  supplement  our  permanent  store staff.  Our  operating  results,
particularly  operating and net income, could suffer if our net sales were below
seasonal  norms  during the  fourth  quarter  or Easter  season for any  reason,
including merchandise delivery delays due to receiving or distribution problems.
Historically,  net sales,  operating  income and net  income  have been  weakest
during the first quarter. We expect this trend to continue.

         Our unaudited  results of operations for the eight most recent quarters
are shown in a table in Footnote 12 of the consolidated  financial statements in
Item 8 of  this  Form  10-K.  To  reconcile  the  combined  company's  quarterly
information with that previously reported by Dollar Tree, refer to our Form 8-K,
filed  on  February  5,  1999,  which  included  quarterly  information  for the
separate, as well as combined, companies.
                                                                  
Inflation and Other Economic Factors

         Our ability to provide  quality  merchandise  at a fixed price point is
subject to certain  economic  factors  which are beyond our  control,  including
inflation, minimum wage levels, operating costs, consumer confidence and general
economic  conditions.  These factors may not remain  favorable.  In  particular,
ocean shipping  costs,  hourly minimum wage rates, or other costs may not remain
at current levels.

         Ocean  Shipping  Costs.  In May 1998,  a  trans-Pacific  ocean-shipping
cartel  imposed a freight  increase of $300 per  container on U.S.  imports from
Asia.  This  increase took effect with  shipments  beginning in mid-May 1998 and
added  approximately  $700,000 in freight  expenses to our cost of sales for the
second half of 1998.  The cartel  recently  announced  its intention to impose a
further increase of up to $900 per container for shipments from Asia to the West
Coast of the United  States and $1,000 for  shipments to the East Coast,  with a
$300 per container surcharge during the peak shipping season from June 1 through
November 30. Although we are uncertain  whether the cartel will be successful in
implementing  the increase at the announced rates, the target effective date for
the increase is May 1, 1999.

         Minimum Wage.  The federally  mandated  minimum wage increased by $0.50
per hour on October 1, 1996 and by an additional  $0.40 per hour on September 1,
1997. These changes  increased  payroll costs by approximately $2 million during
1997 and by approximately $5 million during 1998. In his 1999 State of the Union
Address,  President  Clinton  announced  support for a plan that would raise the
minimum  wage by an  additional  $0.50  per  hour in  each  of  1999  and  2000.
Congressional  Republicans  have  generally  opposed any increase in the minimum
wage.  Based on the proposals  before the Congress,  management  believes that a
proposed  increase,  if  eventually  passed into law,  may have a  significantly
greater  impact  on  payroll  costs  than  the  increases  in the  minimum  wage
implemented in 1996 and 1997.

         Unless  offsetting cost savings are realized (and we can't be sure they
will be), an increase in inflation, minimum wage levels, shipping costs or other
operating  costs,  or a decline  in  consumer  confidence  or  general  economic
conditions,  could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.





Year 2000 Compliance

         We use a large  number of computer  software  programs  throughout  our
entire organization, such as purchasing,  distribution, retail store management,
financial business systems and various  administrative  functions.  We developed
some of these programs in-house and bought others from vendors.  If our software
applications  are unable to appropriately  interpret the upcoming  calendar year
2000 and beyond, then we will likely need to modify or replace such applications
in order to ensure "Year 2000 compliance."

         We have been evaluating and adjusting all known date-sensitive  systems
and  equipment for Year 2000  compliance.  We divided our Year 2000 project into
four phases:

         o    inventory and initial assessment,

         o    remediation and testing,

         o    implementation and re-testing, and

         o    contingency planning.

         The  assessment  and  remediation  and testing  phases of the Year 2000
project are complete and include both information  technology  systems,  such as
computer  equipment  and  software,   as  well  as  non-information   technology
equipment,  such  as  warehouse  conveyor  systems.  We are in  the  process  of
re-testing our systems after the implementation of certain modifications.

         Our plan  provides  for  internal  compliance  of all  mission-critical
systems by mid-1999.  We believe  that the majority of our internal  systems are
currently  Year 2000  compliant.  Some  programs  and  equipment  were  replaced
beginning  in late 1998 by  routine  upgrades  which  provided  numerous  system
enhancements.  These replacement programs and equipment are Year 2000 compliant.
The upgrades were  previously  planned and were not accelerated due to Year 2000
issues. We have not deferred any information  technology projects to address the
Year 2000 issue.

         We  plan to  continue  to  rely  primarily  on  internal  resources  to
identify,  correct or reprogram  and test systems for Year 2000  compliance.  To
date,  we have spent less than  $150,000 in  modifying  our systems for the Year
2000;  the total  costs of  modifying  our current  systems are not  expected to
exceed $500,000.  These costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods.

         Additionally,  we are in the  process  of  communicating  with  service
providers  and  domestic  suppliers  of  merchandise  to assess  their Year 2000
readiness  and the extent to which we may be  vulnerable  to any third  parties'
failure to correct their own Year 2000 issues. Many of these parties have stated
that their  ability to supply us will not be  affected  by the Year 2000  issue.
However,  we cannot be sure of their timely  compliance and our operations could
suffer  due to the  failure of a  significant  third  party to become  Year 2000
compliant.

         We feel we are unable to adequately assess the potential effect of Year
2000 problems on our  international  suppliers,  particularly in China.  Several
recent studies suggest that the  preparedness of China and other Asian countries
is considerably less than that of the United States and Europe,  particularly in
the fields of  manufacturing  and  utilities.  We cannot predict the duration or
severity of any  disruptions  which may occur in China or the home  countries of
our other  overseas  suppliers.  In addition,  we are currently  evaluating  the
preparedness of third parties who handle our international merchandise shipping.
A failure in our normal  merchandise  supply chain from China or other  overseas
suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business.

         Although we anticipate that minimal business disruption will occur as a
result of Year 2000 issues,  possible  consequences include, but are not limited
to, loss of communications  links with store locations,  customs delays, loss of
electric power,  inability to process transactions,  or engage in similar normal
business  activities.  In addition,  the United States and other world economies
could witness unusual purchasing  patterns or other disruptions if large numbers
of  consumers  believe  interruptions  in power,  communications,  water or food
supplies are likely,  regardless of the actual risks. Any such disruptions could
affect our business operations. We also feel we are currently unable to estimate
reasonably likely worst-case  effects of the arrival of the Year 2000 and do not
currently  have a contingency  plan in place for such  occurrence.  We intend to
analyze reasonably likely worst-case scenarios and the need for such contingency
planning  once the  upgrade  and  testing  of  internal  systems  and  review of
third party preparedness described above have been completed.






         The cost of the  conversions  and the  completion  dates  are  based on
management's best estimates and may be updated as additional information becomes
available.  The above  section,  even if  incorporated  into other  documents or
disclosures,  is a Year 2000 readiness disclosure as defined under the Year 2000
Information and Readiness Disclosure Act of 1998.

New Accounting Pronouncements

         Groups  responsible  for financial  accounting  standards have recently
issued two statements which are relevant to our company:

         o    In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued its
              Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting
              for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133).
              SFAS No. 133 establishes standards for derivative instruments  and
              hedging  activities  and requires  that  companies  recognize  all
              derivatives  as either assets or  liabilities  in the statement of
              financial  position and measure those  instruments  at fair value.
              SFAS No. 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal  years
              beginning after June 15, 1999.

         o    The  Accounting  Standards  Executive  Committee  of the  American
              Institute  of Certified  Public  Accountants  issued  Statement of
              Position   (SOP)  98-5,   "Reporting  on  the  Costs  of  Start-up
              Activities," on April 3, 1998. It requires pre-opening costs to be
              expensed as incurred for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
              1998.

Management does not expect the implementation of these  pronouncements to have a
material effect on our financial condition or results of operation.


Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         We are exposed to various  types of market risk in the normal course of
our business, including the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency
rate  fluctuations.  We have the option of entering  into interest rate swaps to
manage  exposure  to  interest  rate  changes,  and we  may  employ  other  risk
management strategies, including the use of foreign currency forward contracts.
We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.

         We have financial  instruments  that are subject to interest rate risk,
comprised of debt obligations issued at variable and fixed rates.  Historically,
we have not  experienced  material gains or losses due to interest rate changes.
Based on amounts  outstanding on our variable rate debt  obligations at December
31, 1998, our exposure to interest rate risk is not considered material.  We are
considering  an interest  rate swap to fix a portion of our  variable  rate debt
obligations due to the current favorable  interest rate  environment.  Our fixed
rate debt obligation is not callable until maturity.

         We are  subject to foreign  currency  exchange  rate risk  relating  to
payments to a supplier in Italian lire. As a general  policy,  we  substantially
hedge foreign  currency  commitments  of future  payments by purchasing  foreign
currency forward contracts. As of December 31, 1998, we did not have any forward
contracts outstanding.  Less than one percent of our expenditures are contracted
in Italian lire and the market risk  exposure  relating to currency  exchange is
not material.







Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements              Page  

Independent Auditors' Report............................................   23

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1998............   24

Consolidated Income Statements for the years ended
         December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998...............................   25

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998...........   26

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998...............................   27

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................   28











                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.:

         We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of Dollar
Tree Stores,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  (the  Company) as of December 31, 1997 and
1998,  and  the  related   consolidated  income  statements  and  statements  of
shareholders'  equity  and cash  flows for each of the  years in the  three-year
period ended December 31, 1998. These consolidated  financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally  accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Dollar Tree
Stores,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1998, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.




/s/ KPMG LLP


Norfolk, Virginia
January 20, 1999




















                            DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (In thousands, except share and per share data)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description of Business

         Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (DTS or the Company) owns and operates, in one
business  segment,  discount variety retail stores which sell  substantially all
items for $1.00;  through a recent  merger,  the Company  owns stores which sell
substantially  all items for  $0.98.  The  Company  operates  under the names of
Dollar Tree,  Dollar Bills, Only One Dollar,  and 98 Cent Clearance Center.  The
Company's  headquarters  and one of its  distribution  centers  are  located  in
Chesapeake,  Virginia.  The Company also operates  distribution centers in Olive
Branch,  Mississippi,  in the  Chicago,  Illinois  area  and in the  Sacramento,
California area. Most of the Company's stores are located in the eastern half of
the United States;  the 98 Cent Clearance  Center stores are located in northern
and  central   California  and  Nevada.  The  Company's   merchandise   includes
housewares,  seasonal goods, candy and food, toys, health and beauty care, party
goods, gifts, stationery,  personal accessories, books and other consumer items.
A substantial  portion of the  Company's  merchandise  is purchased  directly or
indirectly from countries in the Far East, principally China. The Company is not
dependent on a few suppliers.

Principles of Consolidation

         At December 31, 1998, DTS has three wholly owned  subsidiaries,  Dollar
Tree Management,  Inc. (DTM),  Dollar Tree  Distribution,  Inc. (DTD) and Dollar
Tree West, Inc. (DTW). DTM provides management, retail store leasing, accounting
and  administrative  services  to DTS  for a fee and  DTD  provides  merchandise
procurement, purchasing, warehousing and distribution services to DTS for a fee.
DTW owns and  operates  discount  variety  retail  stores under the name 98 Cent
Clearance Center and was merged with and into DTS on January 1, 1999.  Effective
October  29,  1996,  DTD  established  a wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Dollar Tree
Properties,  Inc.  (DTP).  DTP is organized as a real estate holding company and
owns  certain  undeveloped  property.  The  consolidated  group is  referred  to
throughout the notes as "the Company."  The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the  financial  statements of Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc.,  and its wholly
owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.

         On December 10, 1998,  DTW completed a merger,  which was accounted for
as a pooling of interests, with Step Ahead (the Step Ahead merger) in which Step
Ahead became a wholly owned subsidiary of DTS. Prior to the merger, Step Ahead's
fiscal year end was the 52-week period ending on the last Sunday in January.  As
a result of the merger,  the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements have
been restated to retroactively  combine Step Ahead's financial  statements as if
the merger had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented.

         The consolidated income statements,  statements of shareholders' equity
and cash  flows for the years  ended  December  31,  1996 and 1997  reflect  the
results of operations and cash flows for Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. for the years
then ended  combined with Step Ahead for the fiscal years ended January 26, 1997
and January 25, 1998.  The  consolidated  income  statement  and  statements  of
shareholders' equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1998 reflect
the results of  operations  and cash flows for Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. for the
year then ended combined with Step Ahead for the 11-month  period ended December
31, 1998.  The  consolidated  balance sheet as of December 31, 1997 reflects the
financial  position of Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc. on that date  combined with the
financial  position  of Step  Ahead as of January  25,  1998.  The  consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 1998 reflects the combined  financial  position
of Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. and Step Ahead on that date.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

         Cash  and cash  equivalents  at  December  31,  1997 and 1998  includes
$39,400 and $64,200, respectively, of investments in money market securities and
bank  participation  agreements  which are  valued at cost,  which  approximates
market. The underlying assets of these short-term  participation  agreements are
primarily  commercial  notes.  For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the
Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash equivalents.





Merchandise Inventories

         Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is assigned to store inventories  using the retail inventory method,  determined
on  a  first-in,   first-out  (FIFO)  basis.  Costs  directly   associated  with
warehousing and distribution are capitalized as merchandise  inventories.  Total
warehousing and distribution  costs  capitalized  into  inventories  amounted to
$5,731 and $7,790 at December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

Property and Equipment

         Property and  equipment are stated at cost.  Buildings are  depreciated
using the  straight-line  method over 39 years, the estimated useful life of the
assets.  Furniture and fixtures are depreciated using the  straight-line  method
over four to seven years, the estimated  useful lives of the respective  assets.
Transportation vehicles are depreciated using the straight-line method over four
to six years, the estimated useful lives of the respective assets.  Improvements
and assets  held under  capital  leases are  amortized  using the  straight-line
method over three to ten years,  the  estimated  useful lives of the  respective
assets or terms of the related leases, whichever is less.

         Interest is capitalized in connection  with the  construction  of major
facilities.  The capitalized  interest is recorded as part of the asset to which
it relates and is amortized over the asset's  estimated useful life. In 1997 and
1998, $916 and $402, respectively, of interest cost was capitalized. No interest
was capitalized in 1996.

Goodwill

         Goodwill, which represents the excess purchase price over fair value of
net assets  acquired,  is amortized on a straight-line  basis over 25 years. The
Company  assesses the  recoverability  of this intangible asset by comparing the
carrying  amount of the asset to expected  future net cash flows of the acquired
organization.  The  recoverability  of goodwill  will be  impacted if  estimated
future net cash flows are not achieved.

Cost of Sales

         The  Company   includes  the  cost  of  merchandise,   warehousing  and
distribution costs, and certain occupancy costs in cost of sales.

Store Opening Costs

         The Company expenses store opening costs when the store opens.

Income Taxes

         Income taxes are accounted  for under the asset and  liability  method.
Deferred  tax  assets  and   liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  future  tax
consequences  attributable to differences  between financial  statement carrying
amounts of  existing  assets and  liabilities  and their  respective  tax bases.
Deferred  tax  assets and  liabilities  are  measured  using  enacted  tax rates
expected  to apply to  taxable  income  in the  years in which  those  temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in the tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date of such change.

Stock-Based Compensation

         The Company has elected to apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion 
No. 25,  Accounting  for Stock  Issued to  Employees  (APB No. 25),  and related
Interpretations  in accounting  for certain  stock-based  compensation  plans as
permitted  by  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  123,
Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation (SFAS No. 123). The Company has adopted
the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123.

Net Income Per Share

         Basic net income per share has been  computed by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted net income per
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur assuming the inclusion of
dilutive potential common shares and has been computed by dividing net income by
the  weighted  average  number of common  shares and dilutive  potential  common
shares  outstanding.  Dilutive  potential  common shares include all outstanding
stock options and warrants after applying the treasury stock method.  The market
price used in applying the treasury stock method was the closing market price of
the stock at the end of each day.





         In connection with stock dividends authorized by the Board of Directors
in 1996, 1997 and 1998, the Company issued  one-half share for each  outstanding
share of Common Stock,  payable April 19, 1996 to  shareholders  of record as of
April 5, 1996,  payable July 21, 1997 to  shareholders  of record as of July 14,
1997 and payable  June 29, 1998 to  shareholders  of record as of June 22, 1998,
respectively.  All  share  and per share  data in these  consolidated  financial
statements  and the  accompanying  notes  have been  retroactively  adjusted  to
reflect these dividends, each having the effect of a 3-for-2 stock split.

New Accounting Standards

         The Financial  Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities.  This statement
establishes  accounting  and  reporting  standards for  derivative  instruments,
including certain derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts,  and for
hedging activities. This standard is effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal
years  beginning after June 15, 1999. The impact of the  implementation  of this
standard is not expected to be material to the Company's  financial  position or
results of operation.

Use of Estimates

         The  preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and
disclosures  of contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.  Actual  results  could differ from those  estimates.  In addition,  the
Company  has  contingent  liabilities  related  to legal  proceedings  and other
matters arising from the normal course of operations. Management does not expect
that amounts,  if any, which may be required to satisfy such  contingencies will
be material in relation to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Reclassifications

         Certain 1996 and 1997 amounts have been  reclassified for comparability
with the 1998 financial statement presentation.

NOTE 2 - ACQUISITIONS

         On January  31,  1996,  the  Company  acquired  all of the  outstanding
capital stock of Dollar Bills,  Inc. (Dollar Bills),  formerly known as Terrific
Promotions,  Inc.,  which owned and operated 136 discount  variety retail stores
under  the  name  Dollar  Bill$.  The  Company  has  assumed   operations  of  a
distribution  center and wholesale division in the Chicago area. The acquisition
was accounted for by the purchase  method of accounting  and these  consolidated
financial statements include the operating results of Dollar Bills from the date
of acquisition  through December 31, 1998. The acquisition cost for the purchase
was  allocated on the basis of the estimated  fair value of assets  acquired and
liabilities assumed with the excess purchase price allocated to goodwill.  Total
cash paid was  $52,630  and  goodwill  of $48,170  was  recorded  on the date of
acquisition.  Accumulated  amortization relating to goodwill approximates $3,692
and $5,619 at December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

         On December 10, 1998, the Company completed the Step Ahead merger.  The
merger  qualified as a tax-free  exchange and was  accounted for as a pooling of
interests. DTS issued 1.1212 shares of the Company's common stock for each share
of Step Ahead  outstanding  common and  preferred  stock.  A total of  1,662,740
shares (after  adjustment for fractional  shares) of the Company's  common stock
was issued as a result of the merger and Step Ahead's  outstanding stock options
were converted into options to purchase 323,207 common shares of the Company. In
addition,  the Company  issued options to certain  former  shareholders  of Step
Ahead in exchange for  non-competition  agreements  and a consulting  agreement.
Included  in other  assets at December  31,  1998 is the present  value of these
agreements of $4,413 which will be amortized, generally, over a ten-year period.
The  recording of these  non-competition  agreements  did not involve the use of
cash and,  accordingly,  has been  excluded from the  accompanying  consolidated
statements of cash flows.  In connection with the merger,  the Company  incurred
$5,325  ($4,201  after  taxes or $0.06  diluted  net income per share) of merger
related  costs,  consisting  primarily of  professional  fees and  writedowns of
inventory  and fixed assets,  which were charged to  operations  during the year
ended December 31, 1998.





         The  following  table  presents a  reconciliation  of net sales and net
income previously reported by the Company to those presented in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements.


NOTE 3 - INCOME TAXES

         The provision  for income taxes for the years ended  December 31, 1996,
1997 and 1998 consists of the following:


         A  reconciliation  of the  statutory  Federal  income  tax rate and the
effective rate for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 follows:


         Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the  net  tax  effects  of  temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting  purposes and the amounts used for income tax  purposes.  Deferred tax
assets  and  liabilities  are  classified  on the  balance  sheet  based  on the
classification of the underlying asset or liability.  Significant  components of
the  Company's  net  deferred tax assets as of December 31, 1997 and 1998 are as
follows:


         In  assessing  the  realizability  of deferred  tax assets,  management
considers  whether it is more  likely  than not that some  portion or all of the
deferred taxes will not be realized.  Based upon the  availability of carrybacks
of  future  deductible  amounts  to  1996,  1997  and 1998  taxable  






income and  management's  projections for future taxable income over the periods
in which the  deferred  tax  assets  are  deductible,  management  believes  the
existing net  deductible  temporary  differences  will reverse during periods in
which carrybacks are available and/or in which the Company generates net taxable
income.  However,  there can be no assurance  that the Company will generate any
income or any specific level of continuing income in future years.

NOTE 4 - LEASES

         Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable  store,  distribution
center and former corporate  headquarters operating leases and the present value
of future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 1998 are as follows:


         The above future minimum lease payments include amounts for leases that
were  signed  prior to  December  31,  1998 for stores  that were not open as of
December 31, 1998.  Minimum rental payments for operating  leases do not include
contingent  rentals  that may be paid  under  certain  store  leases  based on a
percentage  of sales in excess  of  stipulated  amounts.  Future  minimum  lease
payments  have not been  reduced by future  minimum  sublease  rentals of $7,365
under operating leases.

         The Company is a party to a lease  agreement  for the former  corporate
headquarters and distribution  center in Norfolk,  Virginia,  with a partnership
owned by certain Company  shareholders.  The lease includes land, a building and
certain  equipment  and expires in December 2009 with options to renew for three
five-year  periods.  The lease currently provides for an aggregate annual rental
payment of $656 which is included in the future  minimum lease  payments  above;
the Company  receives annual rental payments in excess of this obligation from a
sublease  agreement  which  expires in February  2008.  The Company  also leases
properties for three of its stores from related  partnerships.  The total rental
payments  related  to the  leases  for the  former  corporate  headquarters  and
distribution  center and these  stores  were  $746,  $789 and $790 for the years
ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.  Rental payments for these
properties are included in the rental expense disclosure below.

         During 1998,  the Company built an automated  distribution  facility in
Olive Branch, Mississippi to replace its leased facility in Memphis,  Tennessee.
In preparation for the move to this new facility, the Company listed its Memphis
facility  with a  commercial  real  estate  agent for  sublease.  The Company is
responsible  for payments under the terms of this lease through  September 2005.
At December  31,  1998,  the Company  had not  obtained a sublease  and the real
estate  market in Memphis did not indicate that a sublease with terms that would
cover the remaining  lease payments would be obtainable.  Due to the uncertainty
regarding the ultimate  recovery of the future lease payments and the investment
in the  improvements  in the  building,  the  Company  recorded  a  $1,125  loss
contingency during 1998.

         Included in property  and  equipment  at December 31, 1997 and 1998 are
leased furniture and fixtures and transportation  vehicles with a cost of $1,744
and $3,473 and  accumulated  amortization  of $702 and $677 at December 31, 1997
and 1998, respectively.





         Rental  expense  for store,  distribution  center and former  corporate
headquarters  operating leases included in the accompanying  consolidated income
statements for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 was as follows:



NOTE 5 - BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

         Net property and  equipment as of December 31, 1997 and 1998  consisted
of the following:


         Other current liabilities as of December 31, 1997 and 1998 consisted of
the following:


NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT

         On December 31,  1994,  the Company  issued  $7,000 of  noncallable  9%
Senior Subordinated Notes and $7,000 of noncallable 9% Junior Subordinated Notes
(collectively,  9% Subordinated Notes) to certain Company  shareholders.  The 9%
Subordinated Notes were paid in full during June 1996.  Interest expense related
to this debt was $574 for the year ended December 31, 1996.

         On September 27, 1996, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated
Revolving  Credit  Agreement  with its  banks  (the  Agreement).  The  Agreement
provides  for,  among other  things:  (1) a $135,000  revolving  line of credit,
bearing  interest  at the agent  bank's  prime  interest  rate or LIBOR,  plus a
spread,  at the option of the Company;  (2) an annual  facilities fee and annual
agent's fee payable  quarterly;  and (3) the  reduction  of amounts  outstanding
under the Agreement for a period of 30 consecutive  days between each December 1
and March 1 to the following:

              December 1, 1998 to March 1, 1999..............  $ 20,000
              December 1, 1999 to March 1, 2000..............  $ 10,000

         There are no reduction requirements beyond those indicated above.

         The Agreement,  among other things, requires the maintenance of certain
specified financial ratios,  restricts the payment of certain  distributions and
prohibits the incurrence of certain new indebtedness. During 1998, the Agreement
was amended to remove the restrictions on the amount of capital expenditures and
on the minimum beneficial ownership of the founding shareholders.  The Agreement
matures on May 31, 2002.  During 1997 and 1998,  the weighted  average  interest
rate charged by the banks under the  Company's  credit  agreements  approximated
6.4% and 6.0%,  respectively.  At December  31, 1997 and 1998,  no amounts  were
outstanding under the Agreement; however,  approximately $34,782 of the $135,000
available  under the Agreement was committed to certain letters of credit issued
in relation to the routine purchase of foreign merchandise at December 31, 1998.





         On April 30, 1997, the Company issued $30,000 of 7.29% unsecured Senior
Notes  (the  Notes).  The  principal  amount is  payable  in five  equal  annual
installments  of  $6,000   beginning   April  30,  2000.   Interest  is  payable
semiannually  on April 30 and October 30 of each year. The Note holders have the
right to require the Company to prepay the Notes in full without  premium upon a
change of control or upon certain other  transactions  by the Company.  The Note
agreements,  among other things,  prohibit  certain mergers and  consolidations,
require the maintenance of certain specified ratios, require that the Notes rank
pari passu with the  Company's  other debt and limit the amount of Company debt.
In the event of  default  or a  prepayment  at the  option of the  Company,  the
Company is required to pay a prepayment  penalty  equal to a make-whole  amount.
Outstanding  amounts of $30,000 are included in  long-term  debt at December 31,
1997 and 1998.

         On May 20, 1998,  the Company  entered into a Loan  Agreement  with the
Mississippi  Business  Finance  Corporation  (MBFC)  under which the MBFC issued
Taxable Variable Rate Demand Revenue Bonds (the Bonds) in an aggregate principal
amount of $19,000, to finance the acquisition, construction, and installation of
land,  buildings,  machinery and  equipment  for the Company's new  distribution
facility in Olive  Branch,  Mississippi.  The  principal  amount of the Bonds is
payable  beginning on June 1, 2006, with a portion maturing each June 1 with the
final  portion  maturing on June 1, 2018;  the Bonds do not contain a prepayment
penalty as long as the  interest  rate  remains  variable.  Interest  is payable
monthly  based on a variable  interest rate which was 5.4% at December 31, 1998.
The  Bonds are  supported  by a  $19,300  letter of credit  issued by one of the
Company's  existing lending banks.  The letter of credit is renewable  annually.
The Letter of Credit and Reimbursement  Agreement requires,  among other things,
the  maintenance  of certain  specified  ratios  and  restricts  the  payment of
dividends.  The Bonds contain a demand  provision  and,  therefore,  outstanding
amounts are classified as current liabilities.  At December 31, 1998 the balance
outstanding on the Bonds is $16,500.

         At  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  also  has a loan  and  security
agreement  under which  $9,241 of a revolving  loan and $804 of a term loan were
outstanding.  During  December 1998, the Company repaid all amounts  outstanding
under this  agreement,  the agreement was terminated and all security  interests
held by the lender were released.

         The carrying  value of the Company's  long-term debt  approximates  its
fair value.  The fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows of
each  instrument  at rates  offered for similar debt  instruments  of comparable
maturities.

NOTE 7 - MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES

         The Company has a financial and management  advisory service  agreement
with one of its non-employee shareholders.  The agreement initially provided for
the payment of $250 annually.  During 1995, the shareholder agreed to reduce the
annual payment to $200 over the remaining  term of the agreement.  The agreement
is terminable by vote of the  Company's  Board of Directors.  During each of the
years ended  December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998, the Company paid $200 under this
agreement.

NOTE 8 - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

         The Company issued unattached  warrants to purchase 2,792,450 shares of
Common Stock on September 30, 1993 for $0.18 per warrant and unattached warrants
to purchase  2,792,450 shares of Common Stock on February 22, 1994 for $0.18 per
warrant. The warrants, which are held by certain Company shareholders,  carry an
exercise  price of $0.86 per share,  have been  exercisable  since March 6, 1995
(the effective date of the Company's  initial  public  offering),  and expire on
December 31, 2003. All warrants were outstanding at December 31, 1998.

         Effective  February 1, 1995, the Articles of Incorporation were amended
to authorize  50,000,000 shares of Common Stock,  $0.01 par value per share, and
10,000,000  shares of Preferred  Stock,  $0.01 par value per share.  On July 23,
1996, the shareholders of the Company approved an increase in authorized  shares
of Common Stock from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000 shares.

         On June 10, 1996,  the Company sold  1,687,500  shares of Common Stock,
$0.01 par value per share,  pursuant to a registration  statement  filed on Form
S-3 under the  Securities  Act of 1933. In connection  with this  offering,  the
Company received $25,333, net of offering expenses.





NOTE 9 - NET INCOME PER SHARE

         The following table sets forth the calculation of basic and diluted net
income per share:


NOTE 10 - PROFIT SHARING AND 401(K) RETIREMENT PLAN

         The Company  maintains defined  contribution  profit sharing and 401(k)
plans  which  are  available  to all  employees  over 21  years  of age who have
completed  one year of service in which they have worked,  in general,  at least
1,000 hours. Eligible employees may make elective salary deferrals.  The Company
may make contributions at its discretion.

         Contributions to and  reimbursements  by the Company of expenses of the
plans included in the accompanying  consolidated income statements for the years
ended December 31 were as follows:

               1996.......................  $ 2,012
               1997.......................  $ 2,923
               1998.......................  $ 4,017

NOTE 11 - STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

         At December 31,  1998,  the Company has five  stock-based  compensation
plans,  which are described  below.  Effective with the Step Ahead merger and in
accordance  with  the  terms  of the  Step  Ahead  Investments,  Inc.  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan (SAI Plan),  outstanding  Step Ahead options were assumed by the
Company  and  converted,  based on 1.1212  Company  options  for each Step Ahead
option,  to options to purchase the Company's common stock.  Options issued as a
result of this conversion were fully vested as of the date of the merger.

         The Company adopted the disclosure-only option under SFAS No. 123 as of
January 1, 1996. If the  accounting  provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been adopted
as of the  beginning of 1996,  the Company's net income and net income per share
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:


         The full  impact of  calculating  compensation  cost for stock  options
under SFAS No. 123 is not  reflected  in the pro forma net income and net income
per share amounts  presented above because  compensation  cost is reflected over
the options' vesting periods and compensation  cost for options granted prior to
January  1,  1995  is  not  considered.  These  pro  forma  amounts  may  not




be representative of future disclosures  because  compensation cost is reflected
over the options' vesting periods and because  additional options may be granted
in future years.

Fixed Stock Option Plans

         The Company has four fixed stock option plans.  Under the Non-Qualified
Stock  Option  Plan (SOP),  the Company  granted  options to its  employees  for
698,176  shares  of Common  Stock in 1993 and  698,859  shares in 1994.  Options
granted  under the SOP have an exercise  price of $1.29 and are fully  vested at
the date of grant.

         Under the 1995  Stock  Incentive  Plan  (SIP),  the  Company  may grant
options  to its  employees  for up to  5,400,000  shares  of Common  Stock.  The
exercise price of each option equals the market price of the Company's  stock at
the date of  grant,  unless  a  higher  price  is  established  by the  Board of
Directors,  and an option's maximum term is ten years. Options granted under the
SIP vest over a three-year period.

         The SAI  Plan  provided  for  the  issuance  of  stock  options,  stock
appreciation  rights  (SARs),  phantom  stock  and  restricted  stock  awards to
officers  and key  employees.  At the  date of the  merger,  the  SAI  Plan  was
authorized to issue 400,000  shares  subject to stock  options,  40,000  phantom
shares,  125,000 SARs, and 25,000  restricted stock awards.  In 1996, Step Ahead
converted all of the outstanding  SARs and phantom stock awards to stock options
and restricted stock awards, respectively.

         Under the 1998 Special  Stock Option Plan  (Special  Plan),  options to
purchase  165,000 shares were granted to five former  officers of Step Ahead who
are serving as employees or consultants of the Company. The options were granted
as consideration for entering into  non-competition  agreements and a consulting
agreement.  The  exercise  price of each option  equals the market  price of the
Company's stock at the date of grant, and an option's maximum term is ten years.
Options granted under the Special Plan vest over a five-year period.

         The fair value of each option  grant is  estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:


         The following  tables  summarize the  Company's  various  option plans,
including  the SAI Plan for the  period  prior to the Step Ahead  merger,  as of
December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998,  and changes  during the years then ended and
information about fixed options outstanding at December 31, 1998.






                                                                
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

         Under the Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP),
the  Company  is  authorized  to issue up to 506,250  shares of Common  Stock to
eligible employees. Under the terms of the ESPP, employees can choose to have up
to 10% of their annual base earnings  withheld to purchase the Company's  Common
Stock.  The purchase  price of the stock is 85% of the lower of the price at the
beginning or the price at the end of the quarterly  offering  period.  Under the
ESPP, the Company has sold 67,012 shares as of December 31, 1998.

         Under SFAS No. 123, compensation cost is recognized for the fair value 
of the employees'  purchase rights,  which was estimated using the Black-Scholes
model with the following assumptions:

     Expected term..........................   3 months
     Expected volatility....................   21% to 30%
     Annual dividend yield..................    -
     Risk-free interest rate................   5.32%-5.88% (annualized)

         The weighted  average fair value of those  purchase  rights  granted in
1996, 1997 and 1998 was $2.34, $3.97, and $6.28, respectively.






NOTE 12 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)

         The following table sets forth certain  unaudited results of operations
for each quarter of 1997 and 1998. The unaudited  information  has been prepared
on the same basis as the audited  consolidated  financial  statements  appearing
elsewhere in this report and includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring   adjustments,   which  management  considers  necessary  for  a  fair
presentation of the financial data shown. The operating  results for any quarter
are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period.




Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.



                                    PART III


Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The  information   concerning  our  Directors  and  Executive  Officers
required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.'s
Proxy  Statement  relating to our Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on
June 3, 1999 (the Proxy Statement), under the caption "Election of Directors."

         Information  set  forth  in  the  Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934," with
respect to director and executive  officer  compliance  with Section  16(a),  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information  set  forth  in  the  Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption
"Compensation of Executive Officers," with respect to executive compensation, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Information  set  forth  in  the  Proxy  Statement  under  the  caption
"Ownership  of the  Common  Stock of the  Company,"  with  respect  to  security
ownership of certain beneficial owners and management, is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

     1.  Financial   Statements.   Reference   is  made  to  the  Index  to  the
         Consolidated  Financial  Statements set forth under Part II, Item 8, on
         page 22 of this Form 10-K.

     2.  Financial  Statement  Schedules.  All schedules for which  provision is
         made in the  applicable  accounting  regulations  of the Securities and
         Exchange  Commission are not required  under the related  instructions,
         are not applicable,  or the information is included in the Consolidated
         Financial Statements, and therefore have been omitted.

     3.  Exhibits. The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits, on
         page 42 of this Form 10-K, are filed as part of, or incorporated by 
         reference into, this report.


(b) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of 
    1998.

     1.  Report on Form 8-K,  filed  October 8, 1998,  included a press  release
         regarding net sales for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

     2.  Report on Form 8-K,  filed October 29, 1998,  included the Amendment to
         the Merger  Agreement  dated October 20, 1998 among Dollar Tree Stores,
         Inc., Dollar Tree West, Inc. and Step Ahead  Investments,  Inc. It also
         included our press release regarding net earnings for the quarter ended
         September 30, 1998.

     3.  Report on Form 8-K, filed December 7, 1998,  included our press release
         regarding  the  announcement  of the  exchange  ratio for the merger of
         Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. and Step Ahead Investments, Inc.

     4.  Report on Form 8-K, filed December 23, 1998, announced the consummation
         of  the  merger  between  Dollar  Tree  Stores,  Inc.  and  Step  Ahead
         Investments, Inc.

Also, in February 1999, we filed two Forms 8-K.

     1.  Report on Form 8-K, filed February 5, 1999, included financial data for
         the years 1997 and 1998 which has been restated on a combined  basis to
         account for the  pooling-of-interests  between Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.
         and Step Ahead Investments, Inc.




     2.  Report  on Form 8-K,  filed  February  18,  1999,  includes  30 days of
         post-merger  combined financial results,  reflecting the merger between
         Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. and Step Ahead Investments, Inc.







                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC.


DATE: March 25, 1999                  By: /s/ Macon F. Brock, Jr.          
                                          ----------------------------
                                             Macon F. Brock, Jr.
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer



         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






                                Index to Exhibits
                                -----------------

3.    Articles and Bylaws

      3.1     Third Restated Articles of Incorporation of Dollar Tree Stores, 
              Inc. (the Company),  as amended (Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's 
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal  quarter  ended  
              September  30, 1996 incorporated herein by this reference).

      3.2     Second Restated Bylaws of the Company (Exhibit 3.2 to the 
              Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1, No. 33-88502,
              incorporated herein by this reference).

10.   Material Contracts

(a)   The following document is filed herewith:

      10.1    Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement  (Amended
              and  Restated  Credit  Agreement)  dated  December 31, 1998 by and
              among Dollar Tree Stores,  Inc., Dollar Tree  Distribution,  Inc.,
              Dollar Tree  Management,  Inc., The First National Bank of Boston,
              NationsBank, N.A., Signet Bank, Crestar Bank, First Union National
              Bank of  Virginia,  Amsouth  Bank of  Alabama,  and Union  Bank of
              California, N.A.

(b)   The following  document,  filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Current
      Report on Form  8-K on  March  4,  1998  is  incorporated  herein  by this
      reference:

      10.2    Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Revolving Credit 
              Agreement.

(c)   The following documents,  filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to the Company's
      Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December  31, 1997,
      are incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.3    Lease dated March 27, 1998 by and between the Company and Raytheon
              Service Company.

      10.4    Lease Guarantee dated March 27, 1998 by and between the Company 
              and Raytheon Company.

(d)   The following  documents,  filed as Exhibits 10.1,  10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5
      and 10.6 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  fiscal
      quarter ended June 30, 1998 are incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.5    Loan Agreement between Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc. and 
              Mississippi Business Finance Corporation, dated May 1, 1998.

      10.6    Placement Letter Agreement by First Union National Bank, dated 
              May 1, 1998.

      10.7    Tender Agency Agreement between Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc. and
              Amsouth Bank, dated May 1, 1998.

      10.8    Remarketing Agreement between Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc. and 
              First Union National Bank, dated May 1, 1998.

      10.9    Guaranty Agreement by Dollar Tree Distribution, Inc., dated May 1,
              1998.

      10.10   Letter of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement between Dollar Tree 
              Distribution, Inc. and First Union National Bank, dated May 1, 
              1998.

(e)   The following documents, filed as Exhibits 2.1 and 4.1 to the Company's 
      Form 8-K on July 30, 1998 are incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.11   Merger Agreement dated July 22, 1998 by and among Dollar Tree 
              Stores, Inc., Dollar Tree West, Inc., and Step Ahead Investments, 
              Inc.

      10.12   Voting  Agreement  dated July 22,  1998 by and among  Dollar  Tree
              Stores,  Inc., Gary L. Cino, Janet Cino, Gary L. Nett, Trustee for
              The Cino Children's Trust dated March 18, 1997, and Gary and Janet
              Cino, Trustees of the Gary and Janet Cino Trust dated May 1, 1991.




(f)   The following document, filed as Exhibits 10.4 to the Company's Form S-4 
      as Amended on October 21, 1998 is incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.13   Agreement of Lease by and between Step Ahead and 3222 Winona Way, 
              L.P. dated February 17, 1993.

(g)   The following document, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Form 8-K on 
      October 29, 1998 is incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.14   Amendment to the Merger Agreement dated October 20, 1998 by and 
              among Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Dollar Tree West, Inc., and Step 
              Ahead Investments, Inc.

(h)   The following document, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Report on 
      Form 10-Q on November 13, 1998 is incorporated herein by this reference:

      10.15   Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Revolving Credit 
              Agreement.

(i)   The following documents, filed as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6
      to the Company's  Post-Effective  Amendment on Form S-8 dated December 10,
      1998 to its registration statement on Form S-4, are incorporated herein by
      this reference:

      10.16   Step Ahead Investments, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan, as Amended.

      10.17   Form of Step Ahead Investments, Inc. Incentive Stock Option 
              Agreement.

      10.18   Form of Step Ahead Investments, Inc. Non-statutory Stock Option 
              Agreement.

      10.19   Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. 1998 Special Stock Option Plan.

      10.20   Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement with
              Gary Cino.

      10.21   Form of Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. Non-qualified Stock Option 
              Agreement with William Coyle, Eric Stauss, Eric Leon and Anthony 
              Leon.

21.   Subsidiaries of the Registrant

      21.1    Subsidiaries.

23.   Consents of Experts and Counsel

      23.1    Consent of Independent Auditors.

27.   Financial Data Schedule

      27.1    Financial Data Schedule as of and for the years ended December 31,
              1996, December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998. Years 1996 and 1997
              have been restated to give effect to the pooling-of-interests 
              merger with Step Ahead Investments, Inc.

