10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Prepared by R.R. Donnelley Financial -- Form 10-K


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2002

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from              to
            .

Commission File No. 001-16111

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in charter)

Georgia

58-2567903

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

Four Corporate Square, Atlanta, Georgia

30329-2009

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code:     404-728-2719

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which
registered

Common Stock, No Par Value

Series A Junior Participating Preferred Share Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock
Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

(Title of
Class)

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filer pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

As of August 15, 2002, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates (assuming for these purposes, but not conceding, that all named executive officers, directors, and shareholders owning 25% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock are “affiliates” of the Registrant) was
$690,125,195 based upon the last reported sale price on The New York Stock Exchange on August 15, 2002.

The
number of shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding at August 15, 2002 was 36,859,328 shares.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Specifically identified portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for the
2002 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.


GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

2002 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

We believe that it is important
to communicate our plans and expectations about the future to our shareholders and to the public. Some of the statements we use in this report, and in some of the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking
statements concerning our business operations, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, our business strategy and means to implement the strategy, the amount of future capital expenditures, our success in developing and
introducing new products and expanding our business, the successful integration of existing and future acquisitions, and the timing of the introduction of new and modified products or services. You can sometimes identify forward looking-statements
by our use of the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Although we believe that the plans and expectations reflected
in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are reasonable, those statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, cannot be
foreseen, and reflect future business decisions that are subject to change. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee you that our plans and expectations will be achieved. Our actual revenues, revenue growth and margins, other results of operation and
shareholder values could differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements as a result of many known and unknown factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict or control. These factors include, but are not limited
to, those set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, those set forth elsewhere in this report and those set forth in our press releases, reports and other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These cautionary statements qualify
all of our forward-looking statements and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and should not be relied upon as representing our plans and expectations as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update or revise forward-looking
statements at some time in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to our forward-looking statements.

PART I

ITEM 1—

BUSINESS

General Developments

The following is a discussion of significant business developments during fiscal 2002.

Purchase of MasterCard International’s Interest in Global Payment Systems LLC

In August 2001, we purchased the 7.5% minority interest owned by MasterCard International Incorporated in our subsidiary, Global Payment Systems LLC. The transaction was effective as of June 1, 2001.

Owings Mills Consolidation

In August 2001, we closed a 35,000 square foot facility in Hanover, Maryland and completed and opened an 85,000 square foot facility for operations and customer service functions in Owings Mills, Maryland (a suburb, northwest of
Baltimore). The new facility has the capacity to accommodate up to 500 employees and is used for account support, customer service, telemarketing and sales support personnel.

Purchase of National Bank of Canada’s Merchant Acquiring Business

On September 30, 2001, we acquired National Bank of Canada’s or National Bank, merchant acquiring business and formed a ten-year alliance with National Bank in order to market merchant payment-related products and services to
National Bank’s customers. Prior to our acquisition, National Bank processed approximately 225 million transactions per year for more than 73,000 points of service throughout Canada and



received referrals from their approximately 600 branch locations. The purchase price was $45.9 million (U.S.) at the then current Canadian exchange rate. This acquisition, in combination with the
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce or CIBC acquisition, which we completed in March 2001, has made us the largest publicly-traded, independent MasterCard and Visa acquirer in Canada and has given us the capability to provide Canadian businesses with
one source for all of their Visa, MasterCard, debit and other payment processing requirements.

Back-end Conversions

As part of our ongoing strategy to integrate our acquisitions, we have completed two back-end conversions during fiscal 2002.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we converted approximately 140,000 CIBC merchant accounts to our back-end processing platform including settlement, chargeback, and help desk functions. In addition, during the third quarter of fiscal 2002,
we converted approximately 20,000 Imperial Bank merchant accounts to our back-end processing platform. We expect to convert National Bank’s merchant accounts onto our back-end operating platform during the second quarter of fiscal 2003.

Business Description

General

As an electronic transaction processor, we enable consumers, corporations, and
government agencies to purchase goods and services through the use of credit and debit cards. Our role is to serve as an intermediary in the exchange of information and funds that must occur between merchants and card issuers before a transaction
can be completed. Including our time as part of National Data Corporation, now known as NDCHealth or NDC, we have provided credit card transaction processing services since 1968. During that period, we have expanded our business to include debit
card, business-to-business purchasing card, check guarantee, check verification and recovery, and terminal management services, and collectively refer to these as our merchant service offerings. In addition, we provide funds transfer services to
domestic and international financial institutions, corporations, and government agencies in the United States, Canada, and Europe. We were incorporated in the state of Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000.

Although a card transaction may appear simplistic, the transaction requires a complex process involving various participants in a series
of electronic connections. Aside from electronic transaction processors, participants in this process include card issuers, cardholders, merchants, and card associations. Card issuers are financial institutions that issue credit cards to approved
applicants and are identifiable by their trade name typically imprinted on the issued cards. The approved applicant is referred to as a cardholder, and may be any entity for which an issuer wishes to extend a line of credit, such as a consumer, a
corporation, or a government agency.

The term merchant generally refers to any organization that accepts credit
or debit cards for the payment of goods and services, such as retail stores, restaurants, corporate purchasing departments, universities, and government agencies. The cardholder may use the card at any merchant location that meets the qualification
standards of the card associations, known as MasterCard and VISA, or other card issuers such as American Express, Discover, Diners Club and debit networks such as Interac. The card associations consist of members, generally financial institutions,
who establish uniform regulations that govern much of the industry.

Before a merchant accepts a credit or debit
card as a payment alternative to cash, it must receive information from the card issuer that the card is authentic and that the impending transaction value will not cause the cardholder to exceed defined limits. The merchant must be compensated for
the value of the purchased good, which also involves the card issuer. The card issuer then seeks reimbursement from the cardholder in the form of a monthly credit card bill or by debiting the cardholder’s bank account. The merchant and the card
issuer, however, generally do not interface directly with each other, but, instead rely on electronic transaction processors, such as Global Payments, and card associations to exchange the required information and funds.

As an electronic transaction processor, we serve as an intermediary in the exchange of information and funds between merchants and card
associations for credit card transactions and between merchants and financial



institutions for debit card transactions. Credit card transactions and debit card transactions account for approximately 75% and 25%, respectively, of our total transactions processed. The card
associations then use either a system known as interchange, in the case of credit cards, or the debit networks in the case of debit cards, to transfer the information and funds between electronic transaction processors and card issuers, and complete
the link between merchants and card issuers. Electronic transaction processors generally advance payment to merchants for credit and debit card transactions before receiving the interchange or debit transaction reimbursement from the card issuers.
This business model differs from the business model followed by electronic transaction processors in the United States, in that, in the United States, merchant funding primarily occurs after the electronic transaction processor receives the funds
from the card issuer.

Based on our total revenues and on industry publications such as

The Nilson Report

,
we believe that we are one of the largest electronic transaction processors in the world. In addition, we are currently a leading mid-market merchant acquirer in the United States and the largest, publicly-traded independent VISA and MasterCard
acquirer in Canada. While we service all industry segments, we specialize in the mid-market segment in the United States and larger volume segments in Canada. We define mid-market as a merchant with an average of $250 thousand to $300 thousand in
annual VISA and/or MasterCard volume. We provide services directly to our merchant customers, as well as to financial institutions and independent sales organizations that purchase and resell our services to their own portfolio of merchant
customers. Our key markets include merchant customers in the following vertical industries: government, restaurant, universities, gaming, retail and health care.

We offer end-to-end services, which means that we believe that we have the ability to fulfill all of our customers’ needs with respect to electronic transaction processing. We market our services
through a variety of sales channels that includes a large, dedicated sales force, independent sales organizations, independent sales representatives, an internal telesales group, trade associations, alliance and agent bank relationships, and
financial institutions.

Industry Overview and Target Markets

We believe that significant opportunities exist for continued growth in the application of transaction processing services to the electronic commerce market. Although a
large percentage of retail transactions still utilize cash, merchants encourage electronically authorized and settled transactions using credit and debit cards as a more efficient means of transacting business with their customers. The rapid growth
of retail credit card transactions, as well as the increased utilization of debit cards, directly correlates with the historic growth of our business. In the United States, total consumer spending is expected to continue to increase, along with an
increase in the percentage using forms of payment other than cash and checks, i.e., credit and debit cards and other electronic means. Based on

The Nilson Report

, we believe that more than $2.1 trillion of annual consumer spending is charged
using VISA and MasterCard. In Canada, we expect to benefit from similar consumer spending trends. We also believe that over $217 billion (Canadian) or approximately $141 billion (U.S.), of annual Canadian consumer spending uses VISA, MasterCard or
debit as the form of payment.

We believe that the proliferation of “loyalty” or co-branded cards that
provide consumers with added benefits for card use should contribute to increased use of credit and debit cards in the future. Finally, as merchants and consumers continue to use electronic commerce as a means to purchase goods and services, both
the consumer-to-business and business-to-business aspects of electronic commerce will demand a growing array of transaction processing and support services. Each of these market trends should increase demand for our services.

Business-to-business electronic data interchange using purchasing card technology and associated systems software provides
businesses with increased efficiency and us with strong growth in industries that have not traditionally utilized credit cards. Purchasing cards and the related business-to-business electronic data interchange replace the costly, time-consuming
paper ordering and invoicing with inexpensive, real-time electronic payment processing transactions.

We believe
that the number of electronic transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies, such as wireless



payment products, stored value cards and other custom payment solutions. These emerging technologies will be a major factor in accelerating the continued conversion from paper transaction
processing to electronic transaction processing, which will result in greater growth opportunities for our business.

Payment processing service providers, such as Global Payments, provide high volume electronic transaction processing and support services directly to banking institutions and to new entrants into the business. The shift in the
industry from traditional financial institution providers to independent providers is due in large part to more efficient distribution channels, as well as increased technological capabilities required for the rapid and efficient creation,
processing, handling, storage, and retrieval of information. These capabilities have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain, and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at
a competitive price.

As a result of the continued growth in our industry, several large merchant processors,
including us, have expanded operations through the creation of alliances or joint ventures with banks and have acquired new merchant portfolios from banks that previously serviced these merchant accounts.

Strategy

Our
business strategy centers on providing a full range of electronic transaction processing services in the markets we serve. We believe that this strategy provides the greatest opportunity for leveraging our existing infrastructure and maintaining a
consistent base of recurring revenues. We believe that the electronic commerce market presents additional attractive opportunities for continued growth. In pursuing our business strategy, we seek both to increase our penetration of existing markets
and to continue to identify and create new markets, such as the electronic commerce market, and further leverage our infrastructure through the following:

•

development of value-added applications, enhancement of existing products, and development of new systems and services;

•

expansion of distribution channels, primarily direct card and independent sales organizations or ISOs and value added resellers or VARs;

•

acquisition, investments, and alliances with companies that have compatible products, services, development capabilities and distribution capabilities in the
direct card business (domestic and internationally); and

•

systems integrations, primarily consolidation of operating platforms, across North America.

Products and Services

We operate in one business segment, electronic transaction processing, and provide products and services through our merchant services and funds transfer offerings.

Merchant Services

Our merchant services offerings include
credit and debit card transaction processing, business-to-business purchasing card transaction processing, check guarantee, check verification and recovery, gift and loyalty card processing and terminal management services.

Credit card and business-to-business purchasing card processing are essentially the same service. Credit card processing describes a
consumer acquiring goods or services from a retail location, whereas business-to-business card processing refers to a corporate purchasing department acquiring goods, such as office supplies or raw materials, from a corporate vendor. We also provide
certain debit card transaction processing services, which are similar to credit card transactions, except that the information and funds are exchanged between the merchant and a cardholder’s personal bank account, instead of between the
merchant and a credit card issuer.



Our card processing services can be marketed in several distinct categories:
authorization, electronic draft capture, settlement, retrieval of credit card receipts, chargeback resolution, merchant accounting, risk management, and support services. We derive revenue for these services primarily based on a percentage of
transaction value or on a specified amount per transaction. We also typically charge for various processing fees, unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.

Authorization and electronic draft capture are related services that generally refer to the process whereby the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is
authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed a defined limit. The authorization process typically begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location and the merchant swipes the
card’s magnetic strip through a point of sale terminal card reader. The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the credit card identification number, transaction date, and dollar value of the goods or services
purchased, and then automatically dials a pre-programmed phone number connected to the network of an electronic transaction processor, such as Global Payments. The electronic transaction processor then routes the request to the applicable card
association, such as MasterCard or Visa. The card association then routes the authorization request to the card issuer, who determines a response based on the status of the cardholder’s account. The response is then returned to the
merchant’s terminal via the same communication network. This entire authorization and response process occurs within seconds from the time the merchant swipes the cardholder’s card through the point of sale terminal card reader.

After a transaction has been authorized, the merchant must be compensated for the value of the purchased good or
service, which is typically described as settlement. We use our network telecommunication infrastructure and the Federal Reserve’s Automated Clearing House system, or ACH in the United States and the Automated Clearing Settlement System, or
ACSS, and the Large Value Transfer System, or LVTS, both in Canada, to ensure that our merchants receive the proper funds due to them for the value of the goods or services that the cardholder purchased. We also provide retrieval of credit card
receipts and chargeback resolution services, both of which relate to cardholders disputing an amount that has been charged to their credit card. We not only retrieve the original sales draft from the merchant location, but also review the dispute
and handle the related exchange of information and funds between the merchant and the card issuer if a charge is to be reversed.

Our merchant accounting services provide information to monitor portfolio performance, control expenses, disseminate information, and track profitability through the production and distribution of detailed statements summarizing
electronic transaction processing activity. Our risk management services allow financial institutions to monitor credit risk, thereby enhancing the profitability of their merchant portfolios. Our risk management services include credit underwriting,
credit scoring, fraud control, account processing, and collections. We also provide our customers with various support services, such as working with merchants to set-up their credit card programs or resolving issues relating to their terminal card
readers.

Check guarantee services include comprehensive check verification and guarantee services designed for a
merchant’s specific needs and risk adversity. Since this service offering guarantees payment of all checks that are electronically verified (primarily using point-of-sale check readers) through our extensive database, merchants may safely
expand their revenue base by applying less stringent requirements when accepting checks from consumers. If a verified check is dishonored, our check guarantee service generally provides the merchant with reimbursement of the check’s face value,
and then pursues collection of the check through our internal collection services. To protect against this risk, we use verification databases that contain information on historical delinquent check writing activity and up-to-date consumer bank
account status. We derive revenue for these services primarily by charging the merchant a percentage of the face value of each guaranteed check.

In the specialized vertical market of gaming, we released our VIP Preferred proprietary software, which provides the gaming industry with the tools to establish up to $10,000 revolving check cashing
limits for the casinos’ customers. Because VIP Preferred cardholders have fast access to cash with high limits, gaming



establishments can increase money to their floor and eliminate associated risk because transactions are 100 percent guaranteed. We also offer an electronic check option, VIP Preferred e-Check,
which eliminates the need for paper checks as part of the VIP Preferred suite of products.

Check verification and
recovery services are similar to those provided in the check guarantee service, except that this service does not guarantee payment of the verified checks. This service provides a low-cost, loss-reduction solution for merchants wishing to quickly
measure a customer’s check presentment worthiness at the point of sale, while not having to incur the additional expense of check guarantee services. We derive revenue for these services primarily from the service fees collected from delinquent
check writers, fees charged to merchants based on a transaction rate per verified check, and fees charged to merchants for specialized services, such as electronic re-deposits of dishonored checks.

Our terminal management offering provides a variety of products and services relating to electronic transaction processing equipment, such
as terminal programming and deployment, set-up and telephone training, maintenance and equipment replacement, warehousing and inventory control, customer service and technical support, customized reporting, and conversions. We provide these services
directly to our own portfolio of merchants, as well as, indirectly to merchants on behalf of our financial institution and independent sales organization customers. We derive revenue from equipment sales and rentals, programming and deployment fees,
and repairs and maintenance services.

Funds Transfer

Our electronic funds transfer product and service offerings include a wide variety of services such as financial EDI, account balance reporting, management information and
deposit reporting. These products and services provide financial, management and operational data to financial institutions, corporations and government agencies worldwide and allow these organizations to exchange the information with financial
institutions and other service providers. We also provide EDI tax filing and Internet tax payment services that allow financial institutions and government agencies to offer corporate taxpayers a secure and convenient method of paying taxes
electronically. Tax payment security is handled through both SSL encryption/decryption and multi-level password access and operates through a web site that serves as the portal for securely receiving tax information and delivering the transaction
for payment.

Total revenues from our merchant service and funds transfer customers are as follows:

Sales and Marketing

We market our products and services to the electronic commerce markets through a variety of distinct sales channels that include a large, dedicated sales force, independent
sales organizations, independent sales representatives, an internal telesales group, alliance bank relationships, and financial institutions. In addition to receiving referrals from approximately 1,800 bank branch locations in Canada, we have
associations with over 200 organizations and approximately 1,000 VARs in the United States that provide sales leads. We market our products and services throughout the United States, Canada and Europe. For a discussion of revenues in the United
States, Canada and Europe for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, see Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have two basic business models we use to market our products and services. In one model, which we refer to as “direct” merchant services, we have a salaried and commissioned sales force
and independent sales organizations, or ISOs, that sell our end-to-end services directly to merchants. In the other model, which we refer



to as “indirect” merchant services, we provide unbundled products and services primarily to financial institutions that in turn resell to their merchants. After providing for the full
year impact of acquisitions, approximately 80% of our merchant services revenue is direct and the remaining 20% is indirect.

Additionally, we market directly to customers through print advertising and direct mail efforts. We participate in major industry tradeshow and publicity events and actively employ various public relations campaigns. We intend for
this strategy to utilize the lowest delivery cost system available to successfully acquire target customers.

Employees

As of June 30, 2002, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 1,800 employees. Many of our employees are
highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction processing, and we believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining these employees.

Competition

We operate in the electronic
transaction processing industry. Our primary competitors in this industry include other independent processors, as well as certain major national and regional financial institutions and independent sales organizations. Certain of these companies are
privately held, and the majority of those that are publicly held do not release the information necessary to precisely quantify our relative competitive position. Based on industry publications such as

The Nilson Report

, management believes
that we are one of the largest electronic transaction processors in the world. According to that report, one of our competitors, First Data Corporation and its affiliates, is the largest electronic transaction processor in the United States. Our
primary competitor in Canada is Moneris Solutions, which we believe has a slightly larger share of the Canadian electronic transaction market than we do. Moneris Solutions is a joint investment of the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Montreal.

The most significant competitive factors related to our product and services include: quality, value-added
features, functionality, price, reliability, the breadth and effectiveness of our distribution channel, customer service, and the manner in which we deliver our services. These competitive factors will continue to change as new distribution channels
and alternative payment solutions are developed by our competitors and us.

Our primary strategy to distinguish
ourselves from our competitors focuses on offering a variety of electronic transaction processing payment solutions to our customers. These enhanced services involve vertical market and sophisticated reporting features that add value to the
information obtained from our electronic transaction processing databases. We believe that our knowledge of these specific markets, the size and effectiveness of our dedicated sales force, and our ability to offer specific, integrated solutions to
our customers, including hardware, software, processing, and network facilities, and our flexibility in packaging these products are positive factors that enhance our competitive position.

Banking Regulations

CIBC owns 26.5% of our
common stock outstanding. As a result of CIBC’s equity interest in our company, we are considered a subsidiary of CIBC for U.S. bank regulatory purposes. CIBC is a Canadian Bank with operations in the United States. Accordingly, CIBC is
regulated in the U.S. as a foreign bank and, as a result, is subject to most of the same limitations as a U.S. bank holding company under provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act. In being considered a subsidiary of CIBC, we are subject to those
same regulations. We are also subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. As a general matter, we are able to operate our merchant services and funds transfer businesses as we have historically, but our ability to expand into unrelated
businesses may be limited unless they are activities that the Bank Holding Company Act allows or the Federal Reserve Board approves.



Bank holding companies may engage in the business of banking, managing and
controlling banks, and in other activities so closely related to managing and controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, enacted in 1999, amended the Bank Holding Company Act to allow greater operational
flexibility for bank holding companies that are well-capitalized, well-managed and meet certain other conditions. Such companies are referred to as “financial holding companies.” Financial holding companies may engage in activities that
are financial in nature, or that are incidental or complimentary to financial activities. The legislation defines securities and insurance activities as being permissible financial activities, allows certain merchant banking activities, and
establishes a procedure for the Federal Reserve Board, together with the U.S. Treasury Department, to announce additional permissible activities.

As a foreign bank, CIBC may qualify for financial holding company status and has done so. If a financial holding company falls out of compliance with the well-managed, well-capitalized, community
reinvestment requirements, it must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to rectify the situation. The Federal Reserve may refuse to allow the financial holding company, which would include its subsidiaries, to engage in new
“financial” activities; may require it to cease current “financial” activities; and may require it to divest its bank.

The merchant services and funds transfer businesses that we conduct are permissible activities for bank holding companies (as well as financial holding companies) under U.S. law, and we do not expect the limitations
described above to adversely affect our current operations. It is possible, however, that these restrictions might limit our ability to enter other businesses that we may wish to engage in at some time in the future. It is also possible that these
laws may be amended in the future, or new laws or regulations adopted, that adversely affect our ability to engage in our current or additional businesses.

Additionally, CIBC is subject to the

Bank Act

(Canada), which, among other things, limits the types of business which CIBC may conduct, directly or indirectly, and the types of investments which
CIBC may make. CIBC’s shareholding in our company is currently permitted under the

Bank Act.

The

Bank Act

, except as we have discussed, does not otherwise apply to us.

Under the Bank Act, CIBC is permitted to continue to hold its interest in us, as long as the business undertaken by us is consistent with the applicable provisions of the

Bank Act

. If we undertake businesses inconsistent with the businesses in which CIBC is permitted to hold an interest, CIBC may be required, pursuant to the provisions of the

Bank Act

, to dispose of its shares prior to the expiration of
the restrictions on re-sale that we have negotiated with CIBC.

We have agreed with CIBC, in effect, that we will
not undertake any business inconsistent with the applicable provisions of the

Bank Act.

We do not anticipate that compliance with this undertaking will affect, in any material way, our ability to carry on the merchant services and funds
transfer businesses. Our ability to expand into other businesses will be governed by the undertaking and the applicable provisions of Canadian banking legislation at the relevant time. There is no assurance that subsequent amendments to the Bank Act
will not adversely affect our ability to carry on our business in some respects.

ITEM 2—

PROPERTIES

Our corporate headquarters are located at Four Corporate Square in Atlanta,
Georgia, where we lease from NDC a five-story, 85,000 square foot building. This lease expires in 2004 unless extended prior to that time. In the first quarter of fiscal 2002, in order to support additional growth and consolidation efforts, we moved
our merchant acquiring business back-office and customer service operation from a 35,000 square foot facility in Hanover, Maryland to an 85,000 square foot facility that we lease in Owings Mills, Maryland. In addition, we lease a total of 28 other
facilities in the United States, one in Peterborough, United Kingdom, two in Toronto, Canada, and eight others throughout Canada. We are currently consolidating the two Toronto facilities into a 44,000 square foot facility in Toronto, to support
growth and the integration efforts of existing Canadian acquisitions. We own or lease a variety of computers and other related equipment for our operational needs. We



continue to upgrade and expand our computers and related equipment in order to increase efficiency, enhance reliability, and provide the necessary base for business expansion.

We believe that all of our facilities and equipment are suitable and adequate for our business as presently conducted.

ITEM 3—

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to the
normal course of our business. In our opinion, the ultimate outcome of such matters, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

ITEM 4—

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote
of our shareholders during our fourth quarter ended May 31, 2002.

PART II

ITEM 5—

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our common
stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “GPN” on February 1, 2001. The table set forth below provides the high and low sales prices and dividends paid per share of our common stock for the four quarters
during fiscal 2002 and the third and fourth quarter during fiscal 2001. We expect to continue to pay our shareholders a dividend per share in amount comparable to that indicated in the table and to continue to do so on a quarterly basis. However,
any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and such other factors as the board of directors deems
relevant.

The number of shareholders of record of our common stock as of
August 15, 2002 was 2,981.

ITEM 6—

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

You should read the selected financial data set forth below in
conjunction with “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included elsewhere in this annual report. The income
statement data for each of the three fiscal years ended May 31, 2002, and the balance sheet data as of May 31, 2002 and 2001 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The balance sheet
data as of May 31, 2000 was derived from audited consolidated financial statements included in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2001. The income statement data for each of the two fiscal years ended May 31, 1999 and the balance sheet
data as of May 31, 1999 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on September 8, 2000, as subsequently amended. The balance sheet data as of May 31, 1998 is
derived from the unaudited consolidated financial statements that have been prepared by management.



For Year Ended May 31,

(In thousands, except per share data)

(1)

Includes restructuring and other charges of $10,993 and $4,882 in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

(2)

See Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

—Goodwill and Other intangible assets

.”

(3)

Using the ratio of 0.8 of a share of Global Payments common stock for each share of NDC common stock held on January 31, 2001, or the Distribution Date, the
date of NDC’s spin-off of its eCommerce business into Global Payments. Weighted average shares outstanding are computed by applying the distribution ratio to the historical NDC weighted average shares outstanding for all periods presented.

(4)

Diluted earnings per share is not presented in the selected financial data for historical periods prior to fiscal 2001 as Global Payments stock options did not
exist prior to the Distribution Date. Refer to Note 2 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

—Earnings per share

.”

(5)

Dividends were first paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, after the Distribution Date.



ITEM 7—

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the
future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking
statements as a result of many known and unknown factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Exhibit 99.1 to this report. See also “Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of “Item
1. Business.”

You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with “Item 6:
Selected Financial Data” and “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” appearing elsewhere in this report.

General

We are primarily a mid-market merchant acquirer in the United States, and the
largest, publicly traded independent VISA and MasterCard acquirer in Canada. We provide a wide range of end-to-end electronic transaction processing solutions to merchants, corporations, financial institutions and government agencies. Our products
and services are marketed through a variety of distinct sales channels that include a large, dedicated direct sales force, independent sales organizations, independent sales representatives, an internal telesales group, trade associations, alliance
bank relationships and financial institutions.

We operate in one business segment, electronic transaction
processing, and provide products and services through our merchant services and funds transfer offerings. Approximately 97% of our current revenue base is from merchant services offerings. The remaining 3% of our total revenue is from our funds
transfer service offerings.

Merchant services include credit and debit card transaction processing,
business-to-business purchase card transaction processing, check guarantee, check verification and recovery, and terminal management services. We have two basic business models. In one model, which we refer to as “direct” merchant
services, we have a salaried and commissioned sales force and independent sales organizations, or ISOs, that sell our end-to-end services directly to merchants. In the other model, which we refer to as “indirect” merchant services, we
provide unbundled products and services primarily to financial institutions that in turn resell to their merchants. After providing for the full year impact of acquisitions, approximately 80% of our merchant services revenue is direct and the
remaining 20% is indirect.

In fiscal 2002 and 2001, we made several adjustments to our results, as reported,
according to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, to disclose pro forma or “normalized” results of operation. The normalized results exclude the impact of divested businesses, other non-recurring items, such as restructuring
and other charges, a non-cash loss on investment, and certain pro forma costs assuming the spin-off from NDC occurred on June 1, 1999. We believe the normalized results of operations more clearly reflect comparative operating performance because
current and prior year GAAP results include the certain one-time items listed above. The following discussion and analysis will address both GAAP reported results and normalized results of operations for the comparison of the fiscal year ended May
31, 2002 and 2001 and fiscal year ended May 31, 2001 and 2000.

Components of Income Statement

We derive our revenues from three primary sources: charges based on volumes and fees for merchant services; charges based on transaction
quantity; and equipment sales, leases and service fees. Revenues generated by these areas depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological



competitiveness of our product offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry, and general economic conditions.

Cost of service consists primarily of: the cost of network telecommunications capability; transaction processing systems; personnel who
develop and maintain applications, operate computer networks and provide customer support; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities performing these functions; and provisions for operating losses.

Sales, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales personnel; non-revenue
producing customer support functions and administrative employees and management; commissions to independent contractors and ISOs; advertising costs; other selling expenses; employee training costs; and occupancy of leased space directly related to
these functions.

Other income and expense primarily consists of: minority interest in earnings, interest income
and expense and other miscellaneous items of income and expense.

Our earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, is defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization. This statistic and its results as a percentage of revenue may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP and is not presented as a substitute for net income or cash flow from operating, investing or financing activities determined in accordance with GAAP. However, we believe this statistic
is a relevant measurement and provides comparable cash earnings measure, excluding the impact of the amortization of acquired intangibles, timing differences associated with merchant processing and working capital funding and the related
depreciation charges.

Results of Operations

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2002 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2001

In fiscal 2002, revenue increased $109.6 million or 31% to $462.8 million from $353.2 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the CIBC, Imperial Bank, and National Bank portfolio acquisitions as well as
continued growth in our direct merchant services business. Our ISO sales channel also continues to be a strong contributor to revenue, while revenues from our indirect merchant services and funds transfer continued to decline as forecasted. The
growth in direct merchant card services revenue is due primarily to our portfolio acquisitions, the addition of new merchant relationships, including those added through our ISO relationships, and increased usage of credit cards and debit cards
within our existing merchant customers. The declines in revenue from indirect merchant services are primarily a result of the consolidating financial institution market. Funds transfer is a mature market and although we continue to service our
existing customers we do not intend to invest in this area.

In fiscal 2001, we recorded approximately $13.9
million in non-recurring revenue. We divested our card issuing business for cash consideration approximately equal to its net book value. The revenue from the card issuing business in fiscal 2001 was $2.9 million. We excluded the card issuing
business from our previously reported normalized fiscal 2001 revenue of $350.3 million. In addition, we had $11.0 million of other non-recurring revenue during fiscal 2001. We decided to significantly reduce our bulk terminal equipment sale business
during the first quarter of fiscal 2002, which did not produce meaningful operating income. The revenue from the bulk terminal business decreased by $4.0 million to $2.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $6.4 million in fiscal 2001. Further, we provided
processing services during fiscal 2001 to CIBC and Imperial Bank for which, after the related portfolio acquisitions, we were no longer able to record as revenue externally. The revenue recorded during fiscal 2001 from these institutions was
approximately $1.3 million. We also recorded $5.7 million in non-recurring revenue from a limited number of customers, of which approximately $2.5 million related to non-recurring chargeback services and $3.2 million related to our non-core domestic
funds transfer business.



Cost of service increased by $59.7 million or 31% from $192.4 million in fiscal
2001 to $252.1 million in fiscal 2002. As a percentage of revenue, cost of service remained unchanged from 54.5% in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. The increase in cost of service expenses is attributable to the inclusion of costs associated with
CIBC’s and Imperial Bank’s merchant acquiring businesses, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, and National Bank’s merchant acquiring business, which we acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2002.

On July 20, 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”

(“SFAS No. 142”). SFAS No. 142 eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible assets and requires that goodwill be evaluated for impairment by applying a fair
value-based test. We adopted this new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we discontinued the amortization of goodwill and certain intangible assets that were determined to have an indefinite life. The cost
of service increases were partially offset by a decrease associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, which lowered amortization expense by $7.4 million in fiscal 2002, and a decrease of $2.3 million associated with the divested card issuing
business in fiscal 2001.

In fiscal 2001, we recorded a $3.0 million charge associated with a change in our
operating guidelines related to our aged chargeback receivables in the merchant settlement function. Prior to the change in guidelines, we carried a disputed merchant chargeback receivable until resolution. Under our current guidelines, generally
within 25 days of receiving a chargeback notice from VISA or MasterCard, we complete our review of the matter and either charge the merchant or the issuing bank, pending final disposition if the chargeback remains disputed by either party.
Therefore, we no longer hold the receivable exposure on these pending chargebacks, but continue to pursue a favorable resolution and collections on behalf of our merchants. This change recognized that some chargebacks under review in fiscal 2001 may
not be collectible, therefore we provided for a $3.0 million non-recurring charge in fiscal 2001, resulting in an increase in our provision for operating losses to $8.4 million. In fiscal 2002, our provision for operating losses was $9.8 million.
The increase in operating losses in fiscal 2002 is a result of the increase in credit and debit card volumes processed and losses associated with merchant fraud.

Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $25.4 million or 25% to $128.3 million in fiscal 2002 from $102.9 million in fiscal 2001. As a percentage of revenue, these expenses decreased to
27.7% at May 31, 2002 compared to 29.1% at May 31, 2001. The increase in sales, general and administrative expenses was due to the higher level of sales infrastructure, personnel and related costs to grow revenue, the inclusion of merchant acquiring
portfolio acquisitions, growth in residual payments to ISOs, and the CIBC and Imperial Bank merchant acquiring portfolio back-end conversion costs, offset by a decrease of $0.7 million associated with the divested card issuing business in fiscal
2001. The decrease in sales, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is due to a reduction of administrative costs related to the consolidation of business locations and acquisition integrations.

During fiscal 2002, we incurred restructuring and other charges of $11.0 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we completed
plans for the closing of four locations including associated management and staff reductions. Of the $11.0 million in charges, $1.5 million related to facility closing costs; $6.7 million related to severance and related costs; and $2.8 million
related to other costs. During fiscal 2001, we continued our efforts to streamline operations through office consolidations. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we incurred a $4.9 million restructuring charge related to office
consolidations and severance payments to terminated employees. See Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this report for more details on these restructuring and other charges incurred in both fiscal years.

Operating income increased $18.4 million or 35% to $71.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $53.0 million in fiscal
2001. Operating income, excluding the impact of restructuring and other charges in the amount of $11.0 million, results in normalized operating income of $82.4 million in fiscal 2002. Normalized operating income for fiscal 2001 is $60.7 million.
This excludes $4.9 million in restructuring and other charges, $3.0 million due to the change in operating guidelines related to aged chargebacks and $0.1 million in losses from the divested card issuing business, but includes $0.3 million of
additional sales, general and administrative expenses as if we were a public company as of June 1, 2000. Our normalized operating income increased $21.7 million or 36%. Our



normalized operating income margin, as a percentage of normalized revenue, increased to 17.8% in fiscal 2002 compared to 17.3% in fiscal 2001.

The increase in normalized operating income and normalized operating income margin is attributable to synergies from our acquisition
integration efforts, improvement due to the ISO sales channel growth and the reduction of administrative costs related to the consolidation of business locations. However, the improvements are partially offset by the impact of the continued declines
in our indirect merchant services and funds transfer businesses, discussed above.

Other income and expense
decreased by $7.6 million or 52% to $7.0 million for fiscal 2002 from $14.6 million for fiscal 2001. Excluding a one-time charge of $5.0 million in fiscal 2001 associated with a non-cash loss on an investment, but including $0.8 million in
additional fiscal 2001 interest expense as a result of the differences in the interest rate under the terms of our line of credit versus the amounts historically allocated from NDC, normalized other income and expense decreased $3.4 million to $7.0
million for fiscal 2002 from $10.4 million for fiscal 2001. The decrease in normalized other income and expense is due to lower variable interest rates on our credit facilities in fiscal 2002 and the buyout of the MasterCard minority interest in
Global Payment Systems LLC effective June 1, 2001. Also, the decrease in outstanding balances on the credit facilities resulted in lower interest expense in fiscal 2002.

Income before a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle increased $16.1 million or 68% to $39.8 million in fiscal 2002 from $23.7 million in fiscal 2001.
Excluding the after-tax effects from the one-time adjustments that reconcile GAAP to normalized results discussed above, normalized income before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, increased $15.7 million or 51% to $46.6
million in fiscal 2002 from $30.9 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in normalized income is due to improvements in income before tax, discussed above, and in part to a decrease in our effective tax rate from 38.5% during fiscal 2001 to 38.2%
during fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, we expect the effective tax rate to be 37.4%. These decreases in the tax rate are due in part to tax credits and the adoption of SFAS No. 142, discussed in Notes 2 and 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The increase in earnings per share before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
is due to an increase in income and was impacted by the additional shares outstanding as a result of the stock issued in consideration of the purchase of CIBC’s merchant acquiring portfolio. Normalized diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2002
is $1.23. This excludes the earnings per share impact of the change in accounting principle, $(0.42); and the earnings per share impact of the restructuring and other charge, $(0.18), from reported diluted earnings per share of $0.63. Normalized
diluted earnings per share increased $0.17 or 16% to $1.23 in fiscal 2002 from $1.06 in fiscal 2001, which excludes the one-time adjustments described above in fiscal 2002 and 2001.

The Company recorded a change in accounting principle of $16.0 million, net of tax, in fiscal 2002. At June 1, 2001, we had an indefinite life intangible asset, a
trademark, with a carrying value of $24.6 million. The trademark was acquired on April 1, 1996 with the purchase of 92.5% ownership interest in MasterCard International’s Merchant Automated Point-of-Sale Program, or MAPP. The value of the
trademark related to the use of the MAPP name and logo. In connection with the spin-off from NDC, we launched a significant rebranding effort under the Global Payments Inc. name and logo. In addition, effective June 1, 2001, we purchased
MasterCard’s remaining minority interest, ending all existing marketing alliances with MasterCard and began conducting a study related to the future use of the trademark. In fiscal 2002, we completed an appraisal with an independent valuation
firm of the fair value of the trademark as of June 1, 2001, the implementation date of SFAS No. 142. Based on the lack of continuing use of the MAPP trademark as of June 1, 2001, the fair value of the trademark was determined to be zero. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142, the $24.6 million ($16.0 million, net of tax) was written off as of June 1, 2001 and was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2001 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2000

Our revenue increased $13.2 million, or 4%, to $353.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $340.0 million in fiscal 2000. This increase was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues from CIBC’s merchant
acquiring business



acquired in March 2001. The increase from the acquisition was partially offset by a decrease of $10.0 million associated with business divestitures during fiscal 2001 and 2000 and a non-recurring
product and service mix change of $2.8 million in fiscal 2000.

In fiscal 2001, we divested our card issuing
business for cash consideration approximately equal to its net book value. Revenues associated with this business were $2.9 million in fiscal 2001 and $8.8 million in fiscal 2000. In addition, in fiscal 2000, we experienced a non-recurring product
and service mix change in our terminal business and divested a small product offering. Revenues in fiscal 2000 associated with the change in the terminal business and the product offering were $2.8 million and $1.2 million respectively.

Excluding the revenue from these divested businesses and non-recurring items, normalized revenue was $350.3
million in fiscal 2001 compared to $327.2 million in fiscal 2000, an increase of $23.1 million or 7%. This increase was due to the inclusion of revenues from CIBC’s merchant acquiring business and strong volume and transaction growth in our
direct merchant acquiring business. The increase in revenue in our direct merchant services in fiscal 2001 was offset by declines in revenues from our indirect merchant services and funds transfer product offerings in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal
2000.

Cost of service increased $10.9 million or 6% from $181.5 million in fiscal 2000 to $192.4 million in
fiscal 2001. Excluding the charges for the divested businesses in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 and a charge of $1.7 million associated with the change in the terminal business in fiscal 2000, normalized cost of service was $187.1 million for
fiscal 2001 compared to $174.0 million in fiscal 2000, an increase of $13.1 million or 8%. This increase in normalized cost of service is primarily attributed to the inclusion of costs associated with CIBC’s merchant acquiring business in our
normalized results for fiscal 2001. As a percentage of normalized revenue, normalized cost of service was 53% in both fiscal 2001 and 2000.

Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $7.6 million or 8%, from $95.3 million in fiscal 2000 to $102.9 million in fiscal 2001. Excluding expenses relating to divested businesses and
adding expenses that would have been incurred if the spin-off from NDC had occurred on June l, 1999, normalized sales, general and administrative expenses were $102.5 million in fiscal 2001 compared to $94.0 million in fiscal 2000, an increase of
$8.5 million or 9%. As a percentage of normalized revenue, these normalized expenses increased to 29.3% in fiscal 2001 compared to 28.7% in fiscal 2000. These increases were primarily due to the relatively higher level of investments by us in
infrastructure, personnel, and direct sales channels after the spin-off from NDC, and due to increased expenses associated with the inclusion of CIBC’s merchant acquiring business.

Operating income decreased $10.2 million, or 16%, to $53.0 million in fiscal 2001 from $63.2 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of revenue, our operating income margin
decreased to 15.0% in fiscal 2001 from 18.6% in fiscal 2000. These decreases are due primarily to the one-time adjustments described above, and generally, a higher level of investment by us after the spin-off from NDC in infrastructure, personnel,
and our direct sales channels.

Normalized operating income increased $1.5 million, or 3%, to $60.7 million in
fiscal 2001 from $59.2 million in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of normalized revenue, our normalized operating margin was 17.3% in fiscal 2001 compared to 18.1% for 2000.

Normalized basic earnings per share decreased $0.05, or 4%, to $1.08 for fiscal 2001 from $1.13 in fiscal 2000. This decrease is attributed to the increase in
weighted-average shares outstanding, primarily due to the shares issued in consideration of the acquisition of CIBC’s merchant acquiring business partially offset by an increase in normalized net income. A total of 9.8 million shares were
issued to CIBC, however only 1.9 million were outstanding for earnings per share calculations due to the partial period that commenced with the close of the acquisition on March 20, 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash flow
generated from operations provides us with a significant source of liquidity to meet our needs. At May 31, 2002, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $19.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities



increased $81.9 million, or 104%, to $160.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $78.6 million for fiscal 2001. This strong cash flow is due to the growth in our domestic direct merchant services
business, recent acquisitions, and acceleration in the collection of Canadian VISA net merchant processing receivables. The acceleration in the collection of receivables primarily relates to the CIBC merchant portfolio back-end conversion, which
took place on October 26, 2001, and is reflected on the balance sheet in the net merchant processing receivable and payable line items. The merchant processing receivable of $76.7 million in the prior year primarily related to a net receivable from
VISA which CIBC managed during the pre-conversion transition period, and, as a result, we did not receive any cash flow benefit. Since the conversion, Global Payments has been able to reduce this amount by $30.0 million which was realized in the
fiscal second quarter ending November 30, 2001. The remaining balance of the decline in the account reflects net merchant funding timing differences.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $54.1 million to $87.5 million for fiscal 2002 from $33.4 million for fiscal 2001. This increase is primarily due to increased business development
activities in fiscal 2002, including the National Bank merchant portfolio acquisition and the buyout of the MasterCard International Corporation minority interest in Global Payment Systems LLC. The $8.8 million increase in capital expenditures is
related to office consolidation efforts and infrastructure to support future growth and acquisition integrations. In fiscal 2003, we expect approximately $15 million to $25 million in total capital spending, primarily related to continued office
consolidations, acquisition integrations, systems infrastructure and product development.

Net cash used in
financing activities increased $18.0 million to $59.8 million for fiscal 2002 from $41.8 million for fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2002, we borrowed approximately $62 million on our line of credit to finance the National Bank merchant portfolio
acquisition and the MasterCard minority interest buyout. Together with the amount outstanding at May 31, 2001, ($73.0 million), we repaid $113 million for a net repayment of $51 million during the fiscal year ended May 31, 2002. We periodically
borrow and repay amounts on our lines of credit, reflecting the funding of timing differences between merchant funding and receipts from card associations and the debit networks. As of May 31, 2002, $22.0 million is outstanding on our revolving line
of credit.

As a result of our spin-off from NDC, we were allocated $96.1 million at June 1, 2000, an amount that
reflected our share of NDC’s pre-distribution debt used to establish our initial capitalization. In addition, we were charged $10.1 million for spin-off costs paid by NDC. As a result, we made net payments to NDC in fiscal 2001 of $106.2
million. We funded approximately $37 million of this repayment using cash flow provided by operations and drew $59 million on our line of credit to fund the balance of the cash dividend payment to NDC on January 31, 2001. Prior to May 31, 2001, we
repaid $6.0 million of the amount drawn on our line of credit. In addition, we used $20 million from our line of credit in May 2001 to finance our Imperial Bank merchant portfolio acquisition.

We believe that our current level of cash and borrowing capacity under our committed lines of credit described below, together with future cash flows from operations,
are sufficient to meet the needs of our existing operations and planned requirements for the foreseeable future. We currently do not have any material capital commitments, other than commitments under capital and operating leases or planned
expansions. Over the next two to three years, we may develop our own hardware and software facilities for the transaction processing, cash management, file transfer and related communications functions in an effort to improve productivity and reduce
cost of services. If undertaken, this development would further increase our capital expenditures above historical levels over the next two to three years. In addition to the planned capital projects referred to above, we will continue the planning
and development process necessary to assume the remaining processing services currently provided to us by National Bank under a transitional service agreement.

We regularly evaluate cash requirements for current operations, commitments, development activities and acquisitions and we may elect to raise additional funds for these purposes in the future, either
through the issuance of debt, equity or otherwise.

Credit Facilities

We have a commitment for a $125 million revolving line of credit. It was initially used to fund the cash due to NDC to reflect our share of NDC’s pre-distribution debt
used to establish our initial capitalization. This line of



credit is also available to meet working capital needs and to finance acquisitions. This line has a variable interest rate based on market rates. The credit agreement contains certain financial
and non-financial covenants customary for financings of this nature. The facility has a three-year term, expiring in January 2004. The full amount outstanding is due upon demand and therefore, we classify the amount as a current liability. As of
May 31, 2002 and 2001, we had $22 million and $73 million, respectively, outstanding under this facility.

On
October 1, 2001, we obtained a commitment for a $25 million revolving credit facility to finance working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. This line has a variable interest rate based on market rates. The credit agreement contains
certain financial and non-financial covenants customary for financings of this nature. The facility has a sixteen-month term, expiring in January 2003. There were no amounts outstanding at May 31, 2002 on this credit facility.

We also have a credit facility from CIBC that provides a line of credit up to $140 million (Canadian dollars), approximately
$91 million U.S. as of May 31, 2002, with an additional overdraft facility available to cover larger advances during periods of peak usage of credit and debit cards. This line has a variable interest rate based on market rates. It contains customary
covenants and events of default. This line of credit is secured by a first priority security interest in our accounts receivable from VISA Canada/International, and has been guaranteed by our subsidiaries. This guarantee is subordinate to our
primary credit facility. The CIBC credit facility had an initial term of 364 days expiring March 19, 2002, and is renewable annually at CIBC’s option. We renewed the CIBC credit facility for 120 days beginning March 20, 2002 through July 19,
2002. Subsequent to year-end, we renewed this facility through November 29, 2002. Effective with the renewal of this facility, we will incur interest costs associated with “same day value” for merchant deposits. “Same day value”
has been an accepted industry practice in Canada for more than ten years. We receive credit for merchants’ sales the morning after the date of the sales transactions. The merchants’ VISA deposits are made the same day and backdated to the
previous day to give the merchants “same day value”. We expect to draw on our facility with CIBC in order to facilitate the practice of “same day value”. Accordingly, in fiscal 2003, we expect interest and other expense to
approximate the fiscal 2002 amount. There are no amounts outstanding under the CIBC credit facility as of May 31, 2002 and 2001.

Forward-Looking Results of Operations

During fiscal 2003, we intend to continue to focus
on growing our domestic and Canadian presence, build our ISO sales channel, provide customer satisfaction, assess opportunities for profitable acquisition growth, pursue enhanced products and services for our customers, and leverage our existing
business model. Consistent with this strategy, our expectation for fiscal 2003 revenue is $495 million to $514 million, or 7% to 11% growth, compared to $463 million in fiscal 2002. Our expectation for fiscal 2003 diluted earnings per share is $1.35
to $1.41 or 10% to 15% growth compared to normalized diluted earnings per share of $1.23 in fiscal 2002. Normalized earnings per share for fiscal 2002 excludes the earnings per share impact of the change in accounting principle, $(0.42); and
excludes the earnings per share impact of the restructuring and other charge, $(0.18), from reported diluted earnings per share of $0.63. The earnings per share target reflects our expectation of achieving operating margin of 18.0% to 18.5% in
fiscal 2003. Finally, we expect EBITDA between $125.0 million and $128.0 million for fiscal 2003.

Application of Critical Accounting
Policies

In applying the accounting policies that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we
necessarily make accounting estimates that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Some of these accounting estimates require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time we make the
accounting estimates. We base these assumptions and the resulting estimates on historical information and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these assumptions and estimates on an ongoing basis.
However, in many instances we reasonably could have used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in our accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, with the result in each case being a material
change in the



financial statement presentation of our financial condition or results of operations. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as “critical accounting estimates.” Among those
critical accounting estimates that we believe are most important to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements are those that we discuss below.

Accounting estimates necessarily require subjective determinations about future events and conditions. Therefore, the following descriptions of critical accounting estimates are forward-looking
statements, and actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. You should read the following in conjunction with Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Risk
Factors” contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report.

Reserve for operating losses

—We have a
reserve for operating losses. We process credit card transactions for our direct merchants. Our merchant customers have the liability for any charges properly reversed by the cardholder. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such
amount from the merchants, due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or another reason, we may be liable for any such reversed charges. We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants to
minimize any such contingent liability. We also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk. In addition, we believe that the diversification of our merchant portfolio among industries and geographic regions minimizes our risk
of loss.

We recognize revenue based on a percentage of the gross amount charged and have a potential liability
for the full amount of the merchant sales volume. We establish valuation allowances for operational losses based primarily on historical experience and other relevant factors. Economic downturns or increases in merchant fraud may result in
significant increases in credit related issues. As of May 31, 2002, we have $2.1 million in reserves for losses associated with operating merchant card processing. Expenses of $9.8 million, $8.4 million and $3.0 million were recorded for fiscal
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for these losses.

We also have a check guarantee business. Similar to the
credit card business, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter’s bank. We have the right to collect the
full amount of the check from the checkwriter but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks. We establish a valuation allowance for this activity based on historical and projected loss experiences. Expenses of $12.4 million,
$9.9 million and $10.1 million were recorded for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for these losses. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered in the future may
differ significantly from estimates used in calculating the valuation allowance.

Impact of New Accounting Pronouncements

Effective June 1, 2001, we adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133,

“Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”

or SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 133 requires that a company recognize derivatives as assets or liabilities on its balance sheet, and also requires that the gain or loss related to the effective
portion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges be recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. We have not used any derivative instruments and the adoption of this statement was not material.

In August 2001, the FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143, “

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations”

or SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and associated asset retirement costs. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or normal operation of a long-lived asset. Under SFAS No. 143, these legal obligations should be recognized in the period
in which they are incurred and amortized to expense over the



life of the asset. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 although earlier application is encouraged. This Statement will
be adopted effective June 1, 2002. We have not historically incurred nor do we expect to incur material obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets.

In October 2001, the FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, “

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Asset”

or
SFAS No. 144. SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, with early application encouraged. This Statement will be adopted effective June 1, 2002. We believe that the effects of the adoption of SFAS No. 144 will not be material.

ITEM 7A—

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Based on analyses completed
and described below, we do not believe that we are exposed to material market risk from changes in interest rates and/or foreign currency rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Our $125 million revolving line of credit has a variable interest rate
based on the London Interbank Offered Rates, or LIBOR. Accordingly, we are exposed to the impact of interest rate fluctuations. We have performed an interest rate sensitivity analysis over the near term with a 10% change in interest rates. A 10%
proportionate increase in interest rates would have resulted in decrease in net income of $0.1 million in both fiscal 2002 and 2001.

Foreign Currency Risk

We generate a percentage of our net income from foreign operations.
We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and British pound against the United States dollar and have performed a foreign exchange sensitivity analysis over the near term with a 10% change in foreign exchange rates. Assuming a 10%
appreciation or depreciation in exchange rate of the British pound and the Canadian dollar would result in net increase or decrease of $2.7 million in income. This analysis does not take into effect the change in revenue that may result from such a
change in exchange rate.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Historically, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate interest rate fluctuation risk or foreign currency exchange rate risk, as it has not been cost effective. We may use derivative financial instruments
in the future, if we deem it useful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.



ITEM 8—

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Board of Directors and Shareholders

Global Payments Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Global Payments Inc. (a Georgia corporation) and
subsidiaries (“the Company”) as of May 31, 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule for
the year ended May 31, 2002 listed in the Index at Item 14. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries as of May 31, 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as whole, presents fairly, in all material respects the information set forth therein.

The
consolidated financial statements of Global Payments Inc. as of May 31, 2001 and 2000, and for the years then ended were audited by other auditors who have ceased operations. As described in Note 7, the fiscal 2001 and 2000 financial statements have
been revised to include the transitional disclosures required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, which was adopted by the Company as of June 1, 2001. We performed the following audit
procedures with respect to the disclosures in Note 7 with respect to 2001 and 2000. We (i) agreed the adjustments to reported net income representing goodwill and trademark amortization expense (including any related tax effects) recognized in those
periods to the Company’s underlying accounting records obtained from management, and (ii) tested the mathematical accuracy of the reconciliation of reported net income to adjusted net income, and the related per-share amounts. Additionally, the
seventh and eighth paragraphs of Note 3 contain disclosures related to 2001 that were not previously included in the 2001 notes to the financial statements. The additional disclosures relate to a 2001 acquisition and are required under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 16. We performed the following audit procedures with respect to such additional disclosures. We (i) derived the number of shares of common stock issued from the purchase agreement and, (ii) agreed the value of the shares
issued, the amount of the cash purchase price adjustment, the allocation of the purchase price to various assets and liabilities, and the useful lives of the resulting intangibles to the Company’s underlying records obtained from management. In
our opinion, the disclosures discussed above are appropriate. However, we were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2001 and 2000 financial statements of the Company other than with respect to such disclosures and,
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2001 and 2000 financial statements taken as a whole.

As discussed in Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in 2002 the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
No. 142 and recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle on June 1, 2001.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

July 17, 2002



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Global Payments Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Global Payments Inc. (a Georgia corporation) and subsidiaries (“the Company”) as of May 31, 2001 and 2000 and the related consolidated statements of income,
changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries as of May 31, 2001 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended May 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN
LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

July 17, 2001

EXPLANATORY NOTE REGARDING REPORT OF

INDEPENDENT
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

On May 2, 2002, Global Payments Inc. decided to no longer engage Arthur Andersen LLP as
its independent public accountants and engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as its independent public accountants for the year ending May 31, 2002. More information regarding Global Payments Inc.’s change in independent public accountants
is contained in a current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 7, 2002.

We could not obtain permission of
Arthur Andersen LLP to the inclusion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of their Report of Independent Public Accountants above. Accordingly, the Report of Arthur Andersen LLP above is merely reproduced from Global Payments Inc.’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2001 (although the consolidated balance sheet as of May 31, 2000 and the consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year ended May 31, 1999 referred
to in that report are not included herein) and does not include the manual signature of Arthur Andersen LLP. See “Risk Factors—The conviction of our former independent auditors, Arthur Andersen LLP, on federal obstruction of justice
charges may adversely affect Arthur Andersen LLP’s ability to satisfy any claims arising from the provision of auditing services to us and may impede our access to the capital markets.”



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

(In thousands, except per share data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

(In thousands, except share data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

(In thousands)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

(In thousands, except per share data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1—SPIN-OFF AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Global Payments Inc. (“Global Payments” or the “Company”) is an integrated provider of
high volume electronic transaction processing and value-added end-to-end information services and systems to merchants, multinational corporations, financial institutions, and government agencies. These services are marketed to customers within the
merchant services and the funds transfer businesses through various sales channels.

In December 1999, National
Data Corporation, now known as NDCHealth Corporation (“NDC”), announced its intent to spin-off the NDC eCommerce business segment into a separate publicly traded company with its own management and Board of Directors (the
“Distribution”). This Distribution occurred on January 31, 2001 (the “Distribution Date”) and was accomplished by forming Global Payments on September 1, 2000, transferring the stock of the companies which comprised the NDC
eCommerce business segment to the Company and then distributing all of the shares of common stock of Global Payments to NDC’s stockholders. NDC stockholders received 0.8 share of Global Payments for each NDC share held as of the Distribution
Date. After the Distribution, Global Payments and NDC became two separate public companies.

The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, and present the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Prior to the Distribution Date, the financial statements included the accounts of the subsidiaries of NDC that comprised its eCommerce business segment. Through the
Distribution Date of January 31, 2001, these amounts were derived from NDC’s historical financial statements. As further described in Note 4, certain corporate and interest expenses had been allocated to the Company that were not previously
allocated to NDC’s eCommerce business segment. These allocations were based on an estimate of the proportion of corporate expenses related to the Company, utilizing such factors as revenues, number of employees, number of transactions processed
and other applicable factors. In the opinion of management, these allocations have been made on a reasonable basis. The costs of these services charged to the Company may not reflect the actual costs the Company would have incurred for similar
services as a stand-alone company.

NOTE 2—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Use of estimates—

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well
as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue—

Card information and transaction processing services revenue are primarily based on a percentage of transaction value or on a specified amount per transaction, and is recognized as such services are performed.
Revenue for processing services provided directly to merchants is recorded net of interchange fees charged by credit card associations, which are not controlled by the Company.

Check guarantee services include the process of electronically verifying the check being presented to the Company’s merchant customer, through an extensive database.
The Company generally guarantees the face value of the verified and guaranteed check to the merchant customer. If a verified and guaranteed check is dishonored, the Company reimburses the merchant for the check’s guaranteed value, and pursues
collection from the delinquent checkwriter. The Company has the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter



but has historically recovered approximately 50% to 55% of the guaranteed, dishonored checks. The Company establishes a claims receivable from the delinquent checkwriter for the full amount of
the guaranteed check and a valuation allowance for this activity based on historical and projected loss experience. See “Reserve for Operating Losses” below.

Revenue for the check guarantee offering is primarily derived from a percentage of the face value of each guaranteed check. The Company recognizes revenue upon satisfaction
of its guarantee obligation to the merchant customer. The check guarantee offering also earns revenue based on fees collected from delinquent checkwriters which is recognized when collected, as collectibility is not reasonably assured until that
point.

Check verification services are similar to the services provided in the check guarantee offering, except
the Company does not guarantee the verified checks. Revenue for this offering is primarily derived from fees collected from delinquent checkwriters and is recognized when collected, as collectibility is not reasonably assured until that point. This
offering also earns revenue based on a fixed amount each merchant pays for each check that is verified. This revenue is recognized when the transaction is processed, since the Company has no further obligations associated with the transaction.

Terminal management products and services consist of electronic transaction processing terminal sales and
rentals, terminal set-up, telephone training and technical support. Revenue associated with the terminal sale, set-up and telephone training is considered a single earnings process and is recognized when the set-up and telephone training is
completed, and the merchant customer can begin processing transactions. Terminal rental revenues are recognized when the service is provided. Revenue associated with technical support is considered an independent earnings process and is recognized
based on either a maintenance agreement, which is recognized on a straight-line basis over the maintenance contract term, or based on time and materials when the support is completed.

Cash and cash equivalents—

Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and all liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or less when
purchased.

Inventory—

Inventory, which includes computer hardware and peripheral equipment, and
electronic point of sale terminals, is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by using the average cost method.

Merchant processing receivable/payable—

The merchant processing receivable/payable results from timing differences in the Company’s settlement process with merchants and card sales processed. These timing
differences are primarily due to the fluctuations in volume and timing of credit and debit card sales volume funded to merchants and the settlement received from the card associations and debit networks.

Reserve for operating losses—

The Company processes credit card transactions for direct merchants. The Company’s merchant
customers have the liability for any charges properly reversed by the cardholder. In the event, however, that the Company is not able to collect such amount from the merchants, due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or another reason, the
Company may be liable for any such reversed charges. The Company requires cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability. The Company also utilizes a number
of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk.

The Company recognizes revenue based on a percentage of the
gross amount charged and has a potential liability for the full amount of the charge. The Company establishes valuation allowances for operational losses based primarily on historical experience and other relevant factors. Economic downturns or
increases in merchant fraud may result in significant increases in credit related issues. As of May 31, 2002, $2.1 million has been reserved for losses associated with operating merchant card processing. The expense associated with the valuation
allowance is included in cost of service in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Expenses of $9.8 million, $8.4 million and $3.0 million were recorded for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for these losses.



The Company also has a check guarantee business. Similar to the credit card
business, the Company charges its merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantees payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter’s bank. The Company has the right to collect
the full amount of the check from the checkwriter but has not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks. The Company establishes a valuation allowance for this activity based on historical and projected loss experiences. As of May 31,
2002, the Company had a check guarantee reserve of $3.2 million. Expenses of $12.4 million, $9.9 million and $10.1 million were recorded for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for these losses. The estimated check returns and recovery
amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered in the future may differ significantly from estimates used in calculating the valuation allowance.

Property and equipment

—Property and equipment, including equipment under capital leases, are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are calculated using
the straight-line method. Equipment is depreciated over 2 to 5 year lives. Leasehold improvements and property acquired under capital leases are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. The costs of
purchased and internally developed software used to provide services to customers or internal administrative services are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, not to exceed 5 years. Maintenance and
repairs are charged to operations as incurred.

Goodwill and Other intangible assets—

On July 20, 2001,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, “

Business Combinations

” (“SFAS No. 141”) and No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”

(“SFAS No. 142”). SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 be accounted for under the purchase method. SFAS No. 142 eliminates the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible assets
and requires that goodwill be evaluated for impairment by applying a fair value-based test. Global Payments adopted SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. In accordance with this new standard, the Company discontinued the amortization of
goodwill and certain intangible assets that were determined to have an indefinite life.

Global Payments completed
the testing for impairment of goodwill during the second quarter ending November 30, 2001 using the present value of expected future cash flows. The Company determined that the fair value of the reporting units exceeds the carrying amount of the net
assets, including goodwill of the respective reporting units. Therefore, no impairment charge to goodwill is required. No other changes in amortization periods were required for other intangible assets (See Note 7).

Other intangible assets primarily represent customer lists and merchant contracts associated with acquisitions. Customer lists and
merchant contracts are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 10 to 30 years. The useful lives for customer lists/merchant contracts are determined based primarily on information concerning start/stop dates and
yearly attrition.

The Company had one indefinite life intangible asset, a trademark with a carrying value at June
1, 2001 of $24.6 million. The trademark was acquired on April 1, 1996 with the purchase of 92.5% ownership interest in MasterCard International’s Merchant Automated Point-of-Sale Program, or MAPP. The value of the trademark related to the use
of the MAPP name and logo. In connection with the spin-off from NDC, the Company launched a significant rebranding effort under the Global Payments Inc. name and logo. In addition, effective June 1, 2001, the Company purchased MasterCard’s
remaining minority interest, ending all existing marketing alliances with MasterCard under the MAPP brand and began conducting a study related to the future use of the trademark.

In fiscal 2002, the Company obtained an appraisal from an independent valuation firm of the fair value of the trademark as of June 1, 2001, the implementation date of SFAS
No. 142. Based on the lack of continuing use of the MAPP trademark as of June 1, 2001, the fair value of the trademark was determined to be zero. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the $24.6 million ($16.0 million, net of tax) was written off as of
June 1, 2001 and was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.



Impairment of long-lived assets—

The Company regularly evaluates
whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and other intangible assets may warrant revision or may not be recoverable. When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be
evaluated for possible impairment, the Company assesses the recoverability by determining whether the carrying value of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its
eventual disposition. In management’s opinion, the long-lived assets, including property and equipment and other intangible assets are appropriately valued at May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001.

Investments—

The Company held a $5 million investment in eCharge Corporation, a private company that offers Internet users secure and convenient ways to
make purchases over the Internet. During the fourth quarter ending May 31, 2001, the Company completed an evaluation of this investment as it had experienced difficulty securing additional funding. As a result, management determined the carrying
value of the investment was not recoverable and recognized a loss on investment of $5.0 million in fiscal 2001.

Income taxes—

Deferred income taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates (see Note 10).

Fair value of financial instruments—

Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash
and cash equivalents, receivables, line of credit, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value.

Foreign currency translation—

The Company has foreign subsidiaries operating in Canada and the United Kingdom, whose functional currency is their local currency. Gains and losses on transactions denominated in currencies
other than the functional currencies are included in determining net income for the period in which exchange rates change. The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating in foreign currencies are translated at the year-end rate of exchange,
and income statement items are translated at the average rates prevailing during the year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of shareholders’ equity. Translation gains and losses on intercompany balances of a
long-term investment nature are also recorded as a component of shareholders’ equity. The effects of foreign currency gains and losses arising from these translations of assets and liabilities are included as a component of other comprehensive
income.

Segment disclosure—

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 131, “Disclosure About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” The Company’s chief operating decision making group currently operates one reportable segment—electronic transaction
processing—therefore the majority of the disclosures required by SFAS No. 131 do not apply to the Company. The Company’s measure of segment profit is operating income. The Company’s results of operations and its financial condition
are not significantly reliant upon any single customer. Revenues from external customers from the Company’s service offerings are as follows:

The Company’s operations are provided in the United States,
Canada, and Europe. The following is a breakdown of revenues by geographic region:



Earnings per share—

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing
reported earnings available to common shareholders by weighted average shares outstanding during the period. Earnings available to common shareholders are the same as reported net income for all periods presented. For periods prior to the
Distribution Date, weighted average shares outstanding is computed by applying the distribution ratio of 0.8 of a share of the Company for each NDC share held to the historical NDC weighted average shares outstanding for the same periods presented.

Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing reported earnings available to common shareholders by weighted
average shares outstanding during the period and the impact of securities that, if exercised, would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. All options with an exercise price less than the average market share price for the period generally
are assumed to have a dilutive effect on earning per share. The dilutive effect of stock options was 1.4 million shares and 0.3 million shares in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. No additional securities were outstanding that could potentially
dilute basic earnings per share that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. Diluted earnings per share is not presented for the year ended May 31, 2000 as Global Payments stock options did not exist prior to the
Distribution Date.

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the
years ended May 31, 2002 and 2001:

Impact of new accounting pronouncements—

Effective June
1, 2001, Global Payments adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133,

“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”

(“SFAS No. 133”). SFAS No. 133 requires that a company recognize
derivatives as assets or liabilities on its balance sheet, and also requires that the gain or loss related to the effective portion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges be recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company
has not used any derivative instruments and the adoption of this statement was not material.

In August 2001, the
FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143,

“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations”

(“SFAS No. 143”). SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets and associated asset retirement costs. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or normal
operation of a long-lived asset. Under SFAS No. 143, these legal obligations should be recognized in the period in which they are incurred and amortized to expense over the life of the asset. This Statement is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 although earlier application is encouraged. This Statement will be adopted effective June 1, 2002. The Company has not historically incurred nor expects prospectively to incur material
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets.



In October 2001, the FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standard No.
144,

“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Asset”

(“SFAS No. 144”). SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. This Statement is
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application encouraged. This Statement will be adopted effective June 1, 2002. The Company
believes that the effects of the adoption of SFAS No. 144 will not be material.

NOTE 3—BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

During the fiscal years 2002 and 2001, the Company acquired the following businesses and assets:

These acquisitions have been recorded using the purchase method of
accounting, and accordingly, the purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition. The operating results are included in the Company’s
consolidated statements of income from the date of the acquisition.

In August 2001, Global Payments purchased the
7.5% minority interest owned by MasterCard International Corporation in Global Payment Systems LLC. The transaction was effective as of June 1, 2001, with a purchase price of $15.0 million.

On October 1, 2001, the Company acquired National Bank of Canada’s merchant acquiring portfolio and formed a ten-year alliance for marketing merchant payment-related
products and services to National Bank of Canada’s customers. The purchase price was $45.9 million (U.S.), at the then current Canadian exchange rate. This acquisition was completed to compliment the Company’s existing Canadian customer
portfolio and broaden the Company’s presence in Canada.



The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisitions.

The amount assigned to the customer list for the National Bank
merchant acquiring portfolio is being amortized over 17 years. Of the amount assigned to goodwill, 100% is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

On March 20, 2001, the Company acquired substantially all the net assets of the merchant acquiring business of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, and formed a ten year marketing alliance with CIBC to
offer merchant payment-related products and services to CIBC’s customers. In exchange for the net assets acquired, the Company issued CIBC approximately 9.8 million unregistered shares of our common stock with a fair value of $133.6 million and
paid CIBC a cash purchase price adjustment of $10.1 million. The deferred cash purchase price adjustment was a negotiated, formula driven amount based on the financial performance of business from the date of the definitive agreement to the closing.

The net assets of the CIBC merchant acquiring business consisted of accounts receivable of $60.6 million,
property and equipment of $14.1 million, accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $7.5 million, and an obligation under a capital lease of $0.6 million. The difference in total consideration of $143.7 million and the net tangible assets acquired
created an excess of $77.1 million. The excess was allocated to merchant contracts in the amount of $44.4 million and goodwill in the amount of $32.7 million, with an estimated useful life of 17 years and 20 years, respectively.

The aggregate cash price paid for the acquisitions in 2001 of $23.4 million is detailed as follows (

in thousands)

:

The excess of cost over tangible assets acquired totaled $117.0
million, with $52.7 million allocated to goodwill and $64.3 million to customer lists/merchant contracts. The depreciable and intangible assets are being amortized over periods ranging from 2 to 20 years.

The following unaudited pro forma information for the purchase acquisitions discussed above has been prepared as if the 2002 and 2001
acquisitions had occurred on June 1 of the preceding year. The information is based on historical and estimated results of the separate companies and may not necessarily be indicative of the results that would have been achieved or of results that
may occur in the future. The pro forma information



includes the expense for amortization of other intangible assets resulting from these transactions and interest expense related to financing costs but does not reflect any synergies or operating
cost reductions that may be achieved from the combined operations.

(1)

Diluted earnings per share is not presented for the year ended May 31, 2000 as Global Payments stock options did not exist prior to the Distribution Date.

NOTE 4—TRANSACTIONS WITH NDC

In conjunction with the Distribution, the Company and NDC entered into various agreements that address the allocation of assets and liabilities between them and that define
their relationship after the Distribution, including the Distribution Agreement, the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, the Employee Benefits Agreement, the Lease Agreement for Office Headquarters, the Intercompany Systems/Network Services
Agreement, the Batch Processing Agreement and the Transition Support Agreement. In fiscal 2002 and 2001, the Company paid NDC $15.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively, for transitional services.

The Company was charged with incremental corporate costs through the Distribution Date in the amount of $4.7 million in fiscal 2001 and
$5.0 million in fiscal 2000. These allocations were based on an estimate of the proportion of corporate expenses related to the Company, utilizing such factors as revenues, number of employees, number of transactions processed and other applicable
factors.

The Company was also charged corporate interest expense through January 31, 2001 based on the corporate
debt allocations of NDC to the Company at the Distribution Date. The Company utilized a rollback approach to allocate the portion of the NDC consolidated group’s debt and interest expense for all historical periods presented. This treatment
records the debt allocation percentage for all historical periods presented. The allocated portion of the consolidated group’s debt was presented as due to NDC. Interest expense recorded by the Company related to this debt was $3.1 million in
fiscal 2001 and $4.6 million in fiscal 2000 and is included in interest and other expense. NDC did not charge any incremental interest expense to the Company after the Distribution Date.

NOTE 5—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

As of May
31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, property and equipment consisted of the following:



NOTE 6—SOFTWARE COSTS

The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s costs associated with software development for the years ended May 31, 2002, May 31, 2001 and May
31, 2000. These amounts exclude other expenditures for product improvements, customer requested enhancements, maintenance and Year 2000 remediation.

The Company capitalizes costs related to the development of
computer software developed or obtained for internal use in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
Internal Use.” Costs incurred in the application development phase are capitalized and amortized over the useful life, not to exceed five years.

Total unamortized capitalized software costs (purchased and internally developed) were approximately $13.4 million and $8.1 million as of May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, respectively. Total software
amortization expense was $3.4 million, $2.9 million and $2.6 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

NOTE
7—GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, adopted on June 1, 2001, the Company
discontinued the amortization of goodwill and certain intangible assets that were determined to have an indefinite life. As of May 31, 2002, intangible assets consisted of customer lists of $210.1 million and accumulated amortization of $68.8
million. The weighted average amortization period is 18 years.

As of May 31, 2001, goodwill and intangible assets
consisted of the following:

Amortization expense was $11.1 million, $11.0 million and $10.3
million for fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

The estimated amortization expense for the next five
fiscal years is as follows (in thousands):


$

11,497


$

11,472


$

11,263


$

10,948


$

8,525



The following table discloses the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for
the period ended May 31, 2002:

The impact of the change in accounting principle for fiscal 2002,
2001 and 2000 was as follows:

(1)

Diluted earnings per share is not presented for the year ended May 31, 2000 as Global Payments stock options did not exist prior to the Distribution Date.

NOTE 8—ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

As of May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, accounts payable and accrued liabilities consisted of the following:



NOTE 9—RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Prior to the Distribution, the Company participated in the NDC noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (the “NDC Plan”) covering substantially all of its
United States employees who have met the eligibility provisions of the NDC Plan as of May 31, 1998. During fiscal 1998, NDC made an evaluation of its current retirement plan offerings and decided to provide its employees with a greater emphasis on
its deferred compensation 401(k) plan by substantially increasing the employer match of participants’ contributions. At the same time, NDC closed the defined benefit pension plan to new participants beginning June 1, 1998. Benefits are based on
years of service and the employee’s compensation during the highest five consecutive years of earnings of the last ten years of service. Plan provisions and funding meet the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended. Effective on the Distribution Date, the Company established the Global Payments defined benefit pension plan (the “Global Payments Plan”) and NDC transferred to this plan a proportionate share of assets allocable to the accrued
benefits for the Company’s participants under the NDC Plan. The expenses for fiscal 2000 for the NDC Plan were allocated to the Company based on the relative projected benefit obligations for all the Company’s employees compared with the
obligations for all participants. In the opinion of management, the expenses for fiscal 2000 were allocated on a reasonable basis. Expenses for fiscal 2002 and 2001 were actuarially determined.

The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligations and fair value of assets over the two-year period ending May 31, 2002 and a
statement of funded status at May 31 for each year:

Changes in benefit obligations

Changes in plan assets

The accrued pension costs recognized in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet were as follows:



Net pension expense (income) included the following components for the fiscal
years ending May 31:

Significant assumptions used in determining net pension expense and
related obligations were as follows:



Discount rate

7.50

%

7.50

%

Rate of increase in compensation levels

4.33

%

4.33

%

Expected long-term rate of return on assets

10.00

%

10.00

%

Prior to the Distribution, the Company participated in the NDC
deferred compensation 401(k) plan. Expenses of $1.0 million and $0.6 million were allocated to the Company in proportion to total payroll for fiscal 2001 (through January 31, 2001) and 2000, respectively. Effective February 1, 2001, the Company
established the Global Payments Inc. 401(k) Plan. The plan provides tax deferred amounts for each participant consisting of employee elective contributions and matching Company contributions. In addition to the expense allocations mentioned above,
the Company contributed $1.2 million and $0.3 million to the Global Payments Inc. 401(k) Plan in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively.

NOTE 10—INCOME TAXES

Prior to the Distribution Date, the Company had been included in
the consolidated federal income tax return of NDC. Tax provisions were settled through the intercompany account and NDC made income tax payments on behalf of the Company (See Note 15). The Company’s provision for income taxes in the
accompanying consolidated statements of income reflects federal and state income taxes calculated on the Company’s separate income.

The provision for income taxes includes:

In addition in fiscal 2002, $8.6 million was recorded as a tax
benefit as a result of the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle (See Note 2). $9.4 million of this amount is a deferred tax benefit, while $0.8 million is a current tax expense.



The Company’s effective tax rates differ from federal statutory rates as
follows:

Deferred income taxes as of May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001 reflect
the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. As of May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, principal components of deferred tax items were as follows:

A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not
that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company has not established valuation allowances for these tax assets.

NOTE 11—SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Stock Options—

NDC had certain Stock
Option Plans (the “Plan”) under which incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options have been granted to officers, key employees and directors of NDC. In connection with the separation of the Company from NDC, stock options under
the Plan held by employees of the Company that were not exercised prior to the date of the Distribution were replaced with options of Global Payments. In accordance with the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44 (“FIN 44,”
“Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation”), NDC stock options were replaced with Global Payments stock options in amounts and at exercise prices intended to preserve the economic benefit of the NDC stock options at
such time. No compensation expense resulted from the replacement of the options. The exercise price of such options range from $3.26 to $20.90. As a result, options for 2,364,849 shares of Global Payments common stock were issued to replace NDC
options under the Global Payments Inc. 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“The 2000 Plan”). The Company also has a Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (“The Director Plan”), which provides for grants



of options to directors who are not employees with the Company. A summary of changes in all outstanding options and the related weighted average exercise price per share is as follows:

The following table summarizes information about all stock options
outstanding at May 31, 2002:

The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options
granted in 2002 under the 2000 Plan and the Director Plan is $12.70 and $14.39, respectively. The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of replacement options and options granted in 2001 under the 2000 Plan and the Director Plan is
$(10.09) and $11.39, respectively. The negative fair value under the 2000 Plan in fiscal 2001 resulted from the remeasurement and replacement of outstanding options.

The fair value of each option granted in fiscal 2002 and 2001 is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions
used for the grants during the respective fiscal year:



Employee Stock Purchase Plan

—The Company has an Employee Stock
Purchase Plan under which the sale of 1,200,000 shares of its common stock have been authorized. Employees may designate up to the lesser of $25,000 or 20% of their annual compensation for the purchase of stock. The price for shares purchased under
the plan is the lower of 85% of market value on the first day or the last day of the quarterly purchase period. At May 31, 2002, 79,077 shares have been issued under this plan, with 1,120,923 shares reserved for future issuance.

The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share granted in fiscal 2002 and 2001 under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is
$6.90 and $4.15, respectively.

The fair value of each share granted under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model using the following assumptions:



Risk-free interest rates

3.75

%

4.68

%

Expected volatility


%


%

Dividend yields

0.8

%


%

Expected lives

3 months

3 months

The Company has chosen the disclosure option under SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and continues to apply Accounting Principles Board, (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations in accounting for its plans.
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for options granted under the plans. Had compensation cost for these plans been recognized based on the fair value of the options at the replacement date and the grant dates for awards under the
plans consistent with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company’s net income and diluted earnings per share would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts:

(1)

Diluted earnings per share is not presented for the year ended May 31, 2000 as Global Payment stock options did not exist prior to the Distribution Date.

Pro forma income for 2000 noted above is based on the fair value of NDC options held by Global
Payments’ employees.

Restricted Stock—

NDC had performance share plans for certain key officers
that provided for distribution of common stock at the end of grant specified measurement periods, in the form of restricted stock. As of the Distribution, the Company’s officers that were participants in the NDC Plan were granted 256,565
restricted shares of the Company under the restricted stock program to replace the awards previously granted under the NDC Plan. Shares awarded under the restricted stock program are held in escrow and released to the grantee upon the grantee’s
satisfaction of conditions of the grantee’s restricted stock agreement. Awards are recorded as deferred compensation, a reduction of shareholders’ equity based on the quoted fair market value of the Company’s common stock at the award
date. Compensation expense is recognized ratably during the escrow period of the award. The compensation cost that was charged against income for restricted stock was $1.1 million in both 2002 and 2001.



NOTE 12—RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER

The Company recorded restructuring and other charges in each of the two fiscal years ended May 31, 2002. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company completed
plans for the closing of four locations including associated management and staff reductions of 150 personnel. Total charges for the year ended May 31, 2002 are categorized as follows:

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company completed
plans for the closing of six locations including associated management and staff reductions. For the year ended May 31, 2001, total charges were $4.9 million and are categorized as follows:

The charges relating to facilities represent locations that are
either already closed or have management approved plans to be closed within twelve months of incurring the charges. These charges included future minimum lease and operating payments, commencing on the planned exit timing, for all noncancelable
leases under remaining terms of the locations identified, net of current and estimated future sublease income. The charges also include facility exit costs and an estimate of the net book value of leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures
that will not be realizable when the facilities are vacated. Normal lease payments, operating costs and depreciation will continue to be charged to operating expenses prior to actually vacating the specific facilities.

The severance and related costs arise from the Company’s actions to reduce personnel in areas of redundant operations and activities.
These operations are those that related to the facility consolidation, recent acquisitions and integration of acquisition functions. The charges reflect specifically identified employees whose employment will be terminated and were informed by the
time the charges were incurred. The non-cash costs associated with the severance and related costs reflect compensation expense due to the acceleration of the vesting of certain stock options for those employees that were terminated and had options
outstanding.

The other costs incurred in the year ended May 31, 2002 relate to the book value of certain current
assets that were deemed to be unrecoverable after the purchase of MasterCard’s remaining minority interest in Global Payment Systems LLC (See Note 3).

The cash items were accrued at the time the charges were incurred. As of May 31, 2002, $7.3 million of the cash portion of the restructuring charges from fiscal 2002 and 2001 remains accrued as a
current liability in the accrued liabilities section of the balance sheets as follows:



As of May 31, 2001, $0.3 million of the $2.7 million of the cash portion of the
restructuring charge had been paid in severance and related costs. The remaining restructuring charges of $1.1 million relating to facilities closing costs and $1.3 million relating to severance and related costs were accrued as a current liability
in the accrued liabilities section of the balance sheet.

NOTE 13—RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

In connection with the fiscal 2001 purchase of CIBC’s merchant acquiring business, CIBC holds approximately 26.5% of the
Company’s outstanding common stock. CIBC provides transition services under an agreement to provide various support services to the merchant acquiring business for a 24-month period commencing on the acquisition date of March 20, 2001. The
purpose of the agreement is to facilitate the integration into our existing operations. These services include customer service, credit and debit card processing and settlement functions. For the years ended May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, the
Company incurred expenses of approximately $31.1 million and $11.2 million, respectively, related to these services.

In addition, the Company has a credit facility from CIBC that provides a line of credit up to $140 million (Canadian dollars), approximately $91 million U.S. dollars. See Note 14.

NOTE 14—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Leases

The Company conducts a major part of its operations using leased facilities and equipment. Many of these leases have renewal
and purchase options and provide that the Company pay the cost of property taxes, insurance and maintenance.

Rent
expense on all operating leases for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $7.6 million, $4.7 million and $5.8 million, respectively.

Future minimum lease payments for all noncancelable leases at May 31, 2002 were as follows:

Legal

The Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to its business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate outcome of such matters, individually or in
the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, liquidity or results of operations.



Line of Credit

The Company has a commitment for a $125 million revolving line of credit. It was initially used to fund the cash due to NDC to reflect the Company’s share of NDC’s pre-distribution debt used to establish the Company’s
initial capitalization. This line of credit is also available to meet working capital needs and financing acquisitions. This line has a variable interest rate based on a market short-term floating rate plus a margin that varies according to the
Company’s trailing four quarter leverage ratio. The credit agreement contains certain financial and non-financial covenants customary for financings of this nature. The facility has a three-year term, expiring in January 2004. The full amount
outstanding is due upon demand, therefore, the Company classifies the amount as a current liability. As of May 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had $22 million and $73 million, respectively, outstanding under this facility.

On October 1, 2001, the Company obtained a commitment for a $25 million revolving credit facility to finance working capital and other
general corporate purposes. This line has a variable interest rate based a market short-term floating rate plus a margin. The credit agreement contains certain financial and non-financial covenants customary for financings of this nature. The
facility has a sixteen-month term, expiring in January 2003. There were no amounts outstanding at May 31, 2002 on this credit facility.

The Company also has a credit facility from CIBC that provides a line of credit up to $140 million (Canadian dollars), approximately $91 million U.S., with an additional overdraft facility available to cover larger advances
during periods of peak usage of credit and debit cards. This line has a variable interest rate based on a market short-term floating rate plus a margin. It contains customary covenants and events of default. This line of credit is secured by a first
priority security interest in our accounts receivable from VISA Canada/International, and has been guaranteed by our subsidiaries. This guarantee is subordinate to our primary credit facility. The CIBC credit facility had an initial term of 364 days
expiring March 19, 2002, and is renewable annually at CIBC’s option. The Company renewed the CIBC credit facility for 120 days beginning March 20, 2002 through July 19, 2002. Subsequent to year-end, the Company renewed this facility through
November 29, 2002. There are no amounts outstanding under the CIBC credit facility as of May 31, 2002 and 2001.

BIN/ICA Agreements

In connection with the Company’s acquisition of merchant credit card operations of banks, the Company
has also entered into depository and processing agreements (the “Agreements”) with certain of the banks. These Agreements allow the Company to use the banks’ identification numbers (“BIN/ICA”) to clear credit card
transactions through VISA and MasterCard. Certain agreements contain financial covenants, and the Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of May 31, 2002 or had obtained a verbal waiver of such covenants. In management’s opinion,
the Company would be able to obtain alternative BIN/ICA agreements without material impact to the Company in the event of the termination of these Agreements.

NOTE 15—SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

Supplemental cash flow
disclosures and non-cash investing and financing activities for the years ended May 31, 2002, May 31, 2001 and May 31, 2000 are as follows:



Historically through the Distribution Date, the Company’s cash flow had been
calculated with and included in the NDC consolidated group’s Supplemental Cash Flows. The Company’s payments for income taxes have been calculated on the Company’s separate income and reflect federal and state income tax payment
allocations as if the Company had been operating on a stand-alone basis (Note 10). The Company has utilized a “rollback” approach to allocate the portion of the consolidated group’s interest payments for all historical periods
presented (Note 4).

NOTE 16—QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

(1)

Using the distribution ratio of 0.8 share of Global Payments Inc. common stock for each share of NDC common stock held. Weighted average shares outstanding is
computed by applying the distribution ratio to the historical NDC weighted average shares outstanding through January 31, 2001.

(2)

Diluted earnings per share is not presented in the Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information for periods prior to November 30, 2000, as Global Payments stock
options did not exist prior to the Distribution Date.

(3)

The net income and earnings per share data for fiscal 2002 in the above table does not agree to amounts reported in the Company’s unaudited interim
financial statements included in the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2001, due to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $16.0 million recorded effective June 1, 2001.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE

We have audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States, the financial statements included in Global
Payments Inc.’s annual report to shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated July 17, 2001. Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
The schedule below is the responsibility of Global Payments’ management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

Arthur Andersen LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

July 17, 2001

EXPLANATORY NOTE REGARDING REPORT OF

INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

On May 2, 2002, Global Payments Inc. decided to no longer engage Arthur Andersen LLP as its independent public accountants and engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as
its independent public accountants for the year ending May 31, 2002. More information regarding Global Payments Inc.’s change in independent public accountants is contained in a current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 7, 2002.

We could not obtain permission of Arthur Andersen LLP to the inclusion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
the Report of Independent Public Accountants above. Accordingly, the Report of Arthur Andersen LLP above covering the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14 for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2001 and 2000 is merely reproduced
from Global Payments Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2001 and does not include the manual signature of Arthur Andersen LLP. See “Risk Factors—The conviction of our former independent auditors, Arthur
Andersen LLP, on federal obstruction of justice charges may adversely affect Arthur Andersen LLP’s ability to satisfy any claims arising from the provision of auditing services to us and may impede our access to the capital markets.”



GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED SCHEDULE II

Valuation & Qualifying Accounts

ITEM 9—

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

On May 7, 2002, Global Payments filed a Current Report on Form 8-K. Item 4—

“Changes in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant”

was filed as follows:

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Global Payments Inc. annually considers and recommends to the Board the selection of Global Payments’ independent
public accountants. As recommended by Global Payments’ Audit Committee, Global Payments’ Board of Directors on May 2, 2002 decided to dismiss Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) as Global Payments’ independent public
accountants and engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as Global Payments’ independent public accountants for the remainder of the fiscal year ending May 31, 2002 and thereafter.

Andersen’s reports on Global Payments’ consolidated financial statements for the past two years did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor
were they qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. Andersen recently completed the SAS 71 review Global payments’ consolidated financial statements for the third quarter ended February 28, 2002. Global
Payments filed its third quarter report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2002.

During Global Payments’ two most recent fiscal years and through the date of this Form 8-K, there were no disagreements with Andersen on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or
auditing scope or procedure which, if not resolved to Andersen’s satisfaction, would have caused Andersen to make reference to the subject matter in connection with their report on Global Payment’s consolidated financial statements for
such years; and there were no reportable events, as listed in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.



Global Payments’ provided Andersen with a copy of the foregoing disclosures.
Attached as Exhibit 16 is a copy of Andersen’s letter, dated May 7, 2002, stating its agreement with such statements.

During Global Payments two most recent fiscal years and through the date of this Form 8-K, Global Payments’ did not consult Deloitte & Touche LLP with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified
transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on Global Payments’ consolidated financial statements, or any other matters or reportable events listed in Items 304(a)(1)(iv) and (v) of Regulation
S-K.

The exhibit filed with this document, a letter from Arthur Andersen LLP to the Securities and Exchange
Commission dated May 7, 2002, has not been included herein. See Current Report on Form 8-K, filed May 7, 2002.



PART III

ITEM 10—

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

We incorporate by reference in this
Item 10 information about our directors contained under the heading “Proposal 1—Election of Directors; Nominees—Certain Information Concerning Nominee and Directors” and information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 by our directors and executive officers under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2002 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on October 22, 2002.

Set forth below is information relating to our executive officers.
There is no family relationship between any of our executive officers or directors and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of our executive officers or directors and any other person pursuant to which any of them was elected an
officer or director, other than arrangements or understandings with our directors or officers acting solely in their capacities as such. Our executive officers serve at the pleasure of our board of directors.



ITEM 11—

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

We incorporate by reference in this Item 11 the information
relating to executive compensation contained under the heading “Proposal 1—Election of Directors; Nominees—Other Information about the Board and its Committees” and “Compensation and Other Benefits” from our proxy
statement to be delivered in connection with our 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 22, 2002. The information contained in the proxy statement under the sections entitled “Shareholder Return Analysis” and
“Report of the Compensation Committee” is specifically not incorporated by reference in this Item 11.

ITEM 12—

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

We incorporate by reference in this Item 12 the information relating to ownership of our common stock by certain persons contained under the headings “Election of Directors—Common Stock Ownership of Management” and
“—Common Stock Ownership by Certain Other Persons” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 22, 2002.

The Company has two compensation plans under which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance. The Global Payments Inc.
2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan have been approved by security holders. For more information on these plans, see Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13—

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

We incorporate by reference in this
Item 13 the information regarding certain relationships and related transactions between us and some of our affiliates contained under the heading “Certain Transactions” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2002
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 22, 2002.



PART IV

ITEM 14—

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

1.

Consolidated Financial Statements

Our consolidated financial statements listed below are set forth in Item 8 of this report:

(a)

2.

Financial Statement Schedules

Report of Independent Public Accountants As to Schedule


Explanatory Note Regarding Report of Independent Public Accountants


Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


All other schedules to our consolidated financial statements have
been omitted because they are not required under the related instruction or are inapplicable, or because we have included the required information in our consolidated financial statements or related notes.

(a)

3.

Exhibits

The following exhibits either (i) are filed with this report or (ii) have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are incorporated in this Item 14 by reference to those
prior filings.







*

Compensatory management agreement

**

Filed with this report

***

Compensatory management agreement and filed with this report

(b)

Reports filed on Form 8-K

On
May 7, 2002, Global Payments filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to disclose pursuant to Item 4 of Form 8-K, that on May 2, 2002, the Board of Directors decided to dismiss Arthur Andersen LLP as the Company’s independent public accountants and
engaged Deloitte and Touche LLP to serve as the Company’s independent public accountants for the remainder of the fiscal year ending May 31, 2002 and thereafter.

(c

)    Exhibits

See Item 14(a)(3)
above.

(d)

Financial Statement Schedules

See Item 14(a)(2) above.



S

IGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Global Payments Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on August 28, 2002.

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

/s/  P

AUL

R. G

ARCIA

By:

Paul R. Garcia

President and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/  J

AMES

G. K

ELLY

By:

James G. Kelly

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer and

Chief Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by a majority of the Board of Directors of the Registrant on the dates indicated.



GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

FORM 10-K

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

56