Item 1. Business





OVERVIEW



General

Capital One Financial Corporation, which was established in 1995, is a diversified financial services holding company headquartered in McLean, Virginia.
Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) offer a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through branches, the internet and other distribution
channels. As of December 31, 2011, our principal subsidiaries included:



•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and
deposit products; and



•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small
businesses and commercial clients.

The Company and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as
“we”, “us” or “our.” CONA and COBNA are collectively referred to as the “Banks” in this report.

We had $135.9 billion in total loans outstanding and $128.2 billion in deposits as of December 31, 2011, compared with $125.9 billion in total loans outstanding and $122.2 billion in deposits as of
December 31, 2010. We serve banking customers through branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. In September 2010, we rebranded Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B.
(“Chevy Chase Bank”), strengthening the Capital One brand in the Washington, D.C. region. In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and mortgage banking in
markets across the United States. As of December 31, 2011, we were the fourth largest issuer of Visa®(“Visa”) and MasterCard®(“MasterCard”) credit cards in the United States based on the
outstanding balance of credit card loans.

In June 2011, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING
Direct N.V., and ING Direct Bancorp (collectively the “ING Sellers”), under which we would acquire substantially all of the ING Sellers’ ING Direct business in the United States (“ING Direct”). We closed the acquisition of
ING Direct on February 17, 2012. Headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware, ING Direct is the largest direct bank in the United States. With the closing of the transaction and the addition of ING Direct’s deposits, which totaled approximately
$83.0 billion as of December 31, 2011, we become the sixth largest depository institution.

We also offer products outside of the United
States principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (U.K.), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. COEP has authority, among other things, to provide
credit card and installment loans. Our U.K. operations transitioned to an Authorized Payment Institution (“API”) effective December 1, 2010. As a result, we are no longer authorized to accept deposits in the U.K. Prior to
November 19, 2010, COEP was referred to as Capital One Bank (Europe) plc (“COBEP”). Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.

Recent Acquisition and Disposition Activity

We regularly explore and evaluate
opportunities to acquire financial services companies and financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy.







As part of our evaluation, we analyze the values of, and regularly submit bids for, the acquisition of customer accounts and other liabilities and assets of financial institutions and other
businesses. We also regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of businesses. We may issue equity or debt in connection with acquisitions, including public offerings, to fund such
acquisitions. Recent completed or pending acquisitions are discussed below.

Hudson’s Bay Company—Credit Card Portfolio

On January 7, 2011, we acquired the existing credit card loan portfolio of Hudson’s Bay Company (“HBC”), one of
the largest retailers in Canada, from GE Capital Retail Finance. The acquisition included outstanding credit card loan receivables with a fair value of approximately $1.4 billion and the transfer of approximately 400 employees directly involved in
managing HBC’s loan portfolio. The acquisition and partnership with HBC significantly expand our credit card customer base in Canada, tripling the number of customer accounts, and provide an additional distribution channel.

Kohl’s—Credit Card Portfolio

In August 2010, we entered into a private-label credit card partnership agreement with Kohl’s Department Stores (“Kohl’s”). In connection with the partnership agreement, we acquired
Kohl’s existing private-label credit card loan portfolio from JPMorgan Chase & Co. on April 1, 2011. The existing portfolio, which consists of more than 20 million Kohl’s customer accounts, had an outstanding principal
and interest balance of approximately $3.7 billion at acquisition. Under the terms of the partnership agreement and in conjunction with the acquisition, we began issuing Kohl’s branded private-label credit cards to new and existing Kohl’s
customers on April 1, 2011. The partnership agreement has an initial seven-year term and an automatic one-year renewal thereafter unless either party delivers notice of an intent to terminate.

ING Direct

On June 16,
2011, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with the ING Sellers to acquire ING Direct. On February 17, 2012, we closed the acquisition of ING Direct, which included (i) the acquisition of the equity interests of ING Bank, fsb
(“ING Bank”), (ii) the acquisition of the equity interests of each of WS Realty, LLC and ING Direct Community Development LLC and (iii) the acquisition of certain other assets and the assumption of certain other liabilities of
ING Direct Bancorp. The aggregate consideration was 54,028,086 shares of common stock and approximately $6.3 billion in cash. The ING Direct acquisition consists of assets, which include cash and cash equivalents, investment securities and loans
with a total estimated fair value of $92.2 billion as of December 31, 2011 and deposits of approximately $83.0 billion as of December 31, 2011.

HSBC—U.S. Credit Card Business

In August 2011, we entered into a purchase
agreement with HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc. (collectively, “HSBC”), to acquire substantially all of the assets and assume liabilities of HSBC’s credit card and private-label
credit card business in the United States for a premium estimated at $2.6 billion as of June 30, 2011. We expect the acquisition of the HSBC U.S. credit card business to significantly expand and enhance our Credit Card franchise. We currently
expect the HSBC acquisition to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to customary closing conditions, including certain governmental clearances and approvals. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, we have the option, subject to certain
conditions, to pay up to $750 million of the consideration to HSBC in the form of our common stock (valued at $39.23 per share).

Additional Information

Our common
stock is listed on the NYSE and is traded under the symbol “COF.” As of January 31, 2012, there were 15,242 holders of record of our common stock. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia
22102 (telephone number (703) 720-1000). We maintain a Web site atwww.capitalone.com. Documents available on our Web site include: (i) our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics







for the Corporation; (ii) our Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) charters for the Audit and Risk, Compensation, Finance and Trust Oversight, and Governance and Nominating
Committees of the Board of Directors.

These documents also are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy. In addition, we
make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or
furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).





OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS
SEGMENTS



Our revenues are
primarily driven by lending to consumers and commercial customers and by deposit-taking activities, which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non-interest income, such as fee-based services provided to customers and
merchant interchange fees with respect to certain credit card transactions. Our expenses primarily consist of the cost of funding our assets, our provision for loan and lease losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits,
infrastructure maintenance and enhancements and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses and income taxes. We expect expenses associated with the integration of the ING Direct and the pending acquisition of the HSBC U.S. credit
card business to represent a significant portion of our expenses in 2012.

Our principal operations are currently organized, for management
reporting purposes, into three primary business segments, which are defined based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have
been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment are included in our “Other” category.



•Credit Card:Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, national small business lending, national closed end installment
lending and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.



•Consumer Banking:Consists of our branch-based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumers and small businesses, national deposit
gathering, national auto lending and consumer home loan lending and servicing activities.



•Commercial Banking:Consists of our lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and middle market
customers. Our middle market customers typically include commercial and industrial companies with annual revenues between $10 million to $1.0 billion.

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase
volumes and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to higher seasonal consumer spending and payment patterns around the winter holiday season, summer vacations and back-to-school periods. Although there is some seasonal impact to purchase
volumes and credit card loan balances in our Credit Card business, these seasonal trends have not caused significant fluctuations in our results of operations. No individual quarter in 2011 or 2010 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues
in either of these fiscal years. Delinquency rates in our consumer lending businesses also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns, with delinquency rates generally tending to decrease in the first two quarters of the year as customers use
income tax refunds to pay down outstanding loan balances.

See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance” and “Item 8. Financial Information and Supplementary Data—Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information about our business segments.











SUPERVISION AND REGULATION



General

Capital One Financial
Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. § 1842) (the “BHC Act”) and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its
capital adequacy standards and limitations on our nonbanking activities. We are also subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).

Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, such as consumer
lending and other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf of the BHC or any of its affiliates. Impermissible
activities for BHCs include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to any banks that we control,
including the Banks and ING Bank, and to commit resources to support them.

On May 27, 2005, we became a “financial holding
company” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act (the “GLBA”). The GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the
nonbank companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature (including, for example, insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking
activities), incidental to financial activities or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.

Our election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository institutions we control meet certain criteria, including
capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Effective July 21, 2011, under amendments to the BHC Act enacted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank
Act”), Capital One Financial Corporation also must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” If we were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding company status, we could, depending on which requirements
we failed to meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or be required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the
“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) up to applicable limits. ING Bank is a federal savings bank chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are also insured by the DIF. In
addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA’s international operations (discussed below), the Banks and ING Bank are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (“OCC”), the FDIC and, effective July 21, 2011, by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”).

We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by
Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business (see below under “Regulation of International Business by Non–U.S. Authorities”).

Regulation of Business Activities

The
activities of the Banks and ING Bank as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting







Act (the “FCRA”), the CRA and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, as well as under various state laws. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often
authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor
relief and collection laws also affect the ability of a bank to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws may affect the ability of banks to collect outstanding balances.

New Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

The Credit CARD Act (amending the
Truth-In-Lending Act) enacted in May 2009, and related changes to Regulation Z, impose a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees and update the disclosures required for open-end credit. Overlimit fees may not be
imposed without prior consent, and the number of such fees that can be charged for the same violation is constrained. The amount of any penalty fee or charge must be “reasonable and proportional” to the violation. The Credit CARD Act also
significantly restricts the ability of a card issuer to increase rates charged on pre-existing card balances. Card issuers are generally prohibited from raising rates on pre-existing balances when generally prevailing interest rates change.
Moreover, the circumstances under which a card issuer can raise the interest rate on pre-existing balances of a customer whose risk of default increases are restricted. Payments above the minimum payment must be allocated first to balances with the
highest interest rate. The amount of fees charged to credit card accounts with lower credit lines is limited. A consumer’s ability to pay must be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits.

State Consumer Financial Laws

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent supervisory body, the CFPB that is the primary regulator for federal consumer financial statutes. State
attorneys general will be authorized to enforce new regulations issued by the CFPB. State consumer financial laws will continue to be preempted under the National Bank Act under the existing standard set forth in the Supreme Court decision in
Barnett Bank of Marion County, N.A. v. Nelson, which preempts any state law that significantly interferes with or impairs banking powers. OCC determinations of such preemption, however, must be on a case-by-case basis, and courts reviewing the
OCC’s preemption determinations will now consider the appropriateness of those determinations under a different standard of judicial review. These laws may affect the ability of the Banks and ING Bank to collect outstanding balances.

Mortgage Lending

The Dodd-Frank Act prescribes additional disclosure requirements and substantive limitations on our mortgage lending activities. Most of these provisions
require the issuance of regulations by the CFPB or other federal agencies before they become effective. Though we do not expect the resulting regulations to have a material impact on our operations, one new requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act, the
requirement for mortgage loan securitizers to retain a portion of the economic risk associated with certain mortgage loans, could impact the type and amount of mortgage loans we offer, depending on the final regulations.

Debit Interchange Fees

The
Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. In June 2011,
the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule and an interim final rule implementing the portion of the Dodd-Frank Act that limits interchange fees received by a debit card issuer. The final rule limits interchange fees per debit card transaction to $.21
plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provides, through the interim final rule, for an additional $.01 fraud prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements.







Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized capital planning rules applicable to large bank holding companies like us (commonly referred to as
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or CCAR). Under the rules, bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and must obtain approval from the Federal
Reserve before making most capital distributions. The purpose of the rules is to ensure that large bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks and capital needs to continue
operations through times of economic and financial stress. As part of its evaluation of a capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the comprehensiveness of the plan, the reasonableness of assumptions and analysis and methodologies used
to assess capital adequacy and the ability of the bank holding company to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a
planning horizon of at least nine quarters.

Traditionally, dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major
source of funds for us to pay dividends on our stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks and ING Bank can finance or otherwise supply
funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state
banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as the Banks and ING Bank, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the
institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Capital Adequacy

The Banks and ING Bank are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy
guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management” and “Note 13—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.” The Banks and ING Bank exceeded minimum regulatory requirements under these guidelines as of December 31, 2011.

FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action







As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA
requires regulators to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take
action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank
Act

In addition to the provisions described throughout this Supervision and Regulation section, the Dodd-Frank Act
imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, affiliate transactions, and proprietary trading (the “Volcker Rule”). It is also possible that CONA will be designated as a
“swap dealer” under the Dodd-Frank Act due to its derivative activities associated with commercial lending, which would result in oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and more requirements for our current and future
derivative transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits conflicts of interest relating to securitizations and generally requires securitizers to retain a 5% economic interest in the credit risk of assets sold through the issuance of asset-backed
securitizations, with an exemption for traditionally underwritten residential mortgage loans. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions related to corporate governance and executive compensation and new fees and assessments, among others.

The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules may
result in modifications to our business models and organizational structure, and may subject us to escalating costs associated with any such changes. However, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or, in some cases,
years. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires various studies and reports to be delivered to Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action.

Basel II

U.S. Federal banking regulators finalized the “Advanced”
version of Basel II in December 2007 and they issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the “Standardized” version in June 2008. The rules are mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or
consolidated total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. We expect to become subject to these rules at the end of 2012 as a result of the ING Direct acquisition.







Prior to full implementation of the Basel II framework, organizations must complete a qualification period
of four consecutive quarters, known as the parallel run, during which they must meet the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of their primary U.S. banking regulator. Based on current growth estimates, we would expect to enter parallel
run January 1, 2015. This will require completing a written implementation plan and building processes and systems to comply with the rules. Compliance with the Basel II rules will require a material investment of resources.

The Collins Amendment within the Dodd-Frank Act and the U.S. banking regulators’ implementing final rules establish a risk-based capital floor so
that organizations subject to Basel II rules may not hold less capital than would be required using Basel I capital calculations. Our current analysis suggests that our risk-weighted assets will increase under the Basel II framework, and
therefore we would need to hold more regulatory capital in order to maintain a given capital ratio. We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new rules with respect to the institutions that are subject to them and assess the
potential impact to us.

Basel III

In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) released proposals for additional capital and liquidity requirements, which have been clarified and amended
in recent pronouncements (“Basel III”). In September 2010, the Basel Committee announced a package of reforms that included detailed capital ratios and capital conservation buffers, subject to transition periods through 2018. In December
2010, the Basel Committee published a final framework on capital and liquidity, consistent in large part with the prior proposals. The liquidity framework included two standards for liquidity risk supervision, each subject to observation periods and
transitional arrangements. One standard promotes short-term resilience by requiring sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a stress scenario lasting for 30 days; the other promotes longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable
funding over a one-year period, based on the liquidity characteristics of assets and activities.

How U.S. banking regulations will be
modified to reflect these international standards remains unclear, particularly given the capital surcharge regulations that the Federal Reserve intends to implement under the Dodd-Frank Act and the current Prompt Corrective Action framework. U.S.
regulators have not yet implemented any portion of the Basel III framework, although we expect them to do so in the future. We expect that minimum capital and liquidity requirements for us and other institutions will increase as a result of Basel
III, the Dodd-Frank Act and related activity. We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new rules with respect to the institutions that are subject to them and assess the potential impact to us.

Deposits and Deposit Insurance

Each of
CONA, COBNA and ING Bank, as an insured depository institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was
formed on March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act permits the FDIC to
set a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

Prior to passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC had established a plan to restore the DIF in the face of recent insurance losses and future
loss projections, which resulted in several rules that generally increased deposit insurance rates and purported to improve risk differentiation so that riskier institutions bear a greater share of insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act reformed the
management of the DIF in several ways: raised the minimum DRR to 1.35% (from the former minimum of 1.15%) and removed the upper limit on the DRR; required that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15% by the end of
2016); required that in setting assessments, the FDIC must offset the effect of meeting the increased reserve ratio on







small insured depository institutions; and eliminated the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends from the DIF when the reserve ratio reaches certain levels. The FDIC has set the DRR at 2% and,
in lieu of dividends, has established progressively lower assessment rate schedules as the reserve ratio meets certain trigger levels. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the FDIC to change the deposit insurance assessment base from deposits to average
consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. In February 2011, the FDIC finalized rules to implement this change that significantly modified how deposit insurance assessment rates are calculated for those banks with assets of $10 billion
or greater.

Banks may accept brokered deposits as part of their funding. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk,” only “well-capitalized” and “adequately-capitalized” institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions, however,
must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits
from outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity.

The FDIC is authorized to
terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation,
order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its earnings.

Overdraft Protection

The Federal
Reserve amended Regulation E in November 2009 to limit the ability to assess overdraft fees for paying ATM and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer opts in to such payment of overdrafts. The
rule does not apply to overdraft services with respect to checks, ACH transactions, or recurring debit card transactions, or to the payment of overdrafts pursuant to a line of credit or a service that transfers funds from another account. We are
required to provide to customers written notice describing our overdraft service, fees imposed and other information, and to provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt in to the service. Before we may assess fees for paying discretionary
overdrafts, a customer must affirmatively opt in, which could negatively impact our deposit business revenue.

Source of Strength and
Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions

Under the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company must serve as
a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of strength doctrine, directing the Federal Reserve to require bank holding
companies to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks.

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks and ING Bank may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be
incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks and ING Bank are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act provided the FDIC with liquidation authority that may be used to liquidate a financial company if the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President, based on the recommendation
of the Federal Reserve and another federal agency, determines that doing so is necessary to mitigate serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must







liquidate the company in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard. The costs of a liquidation of a financial company would be borne by shareholders
and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing this authority, and may issue additional rules in the future.

FFIEC Account Management Guidance

On
January 8, 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) released Account Management and Loss Allowance Guidance (the “Guidance”). The Guidance applies to all credit lending of regulated financial
institutions and generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their lending programs, including line assignments, over-limit practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the
accounting methodology used for various assets and income items related to loans.

We believe that our account management and loss allowance
practices are prudent and appropriate and, consistent with the Guidance. We caution, however, the Guidance provides wide discretion to bank regulatory agencies in the application of the Guidance to any particular institution and its account
management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the Guidance, bank examiners could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial
condition or results of operation.

Privacy and Fair Credit Reporting

Under Section 501(b) of the GLBA, among other sources of statutory authority, including state law, we are required to observe various data
security-related requirements, including establishing information security and data security breach response programs and properly authenticating customers before processing or enabling certain types of transactions or interactions. The failure to
observe any one or more of these requirements could subject us to enforcement action or litigation.

Like other financial institutions, the
Banks and ING Bank rely upon consumer reports for prescreen marketing, underwriting new loans and for reviewing and managing risks associated with existing accounts. In addition, the







Banks and ING Bank furnish customer account information to the major consumer reporting agencies. The use of consumer reports by the Banks and ING Bank and furnishing of account information to
the consumer reporting agencies is regulated under the FCRA on a uniform, nationwide basis. This includes restrictions on the ability of the Banks and ING Bank to share consumer report information with affiliates and to use customer account
information shared by affiliates for a marketing purpose. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”), extends the federal preemption of the FCRA permanently, although the law authorizes states to enact laws
regulating certain subject matters so long as they are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the FCRA. The FACT Act also added new provisions to the FCRA designed to address the growing crime of identity theft and to improve the accuracy of
consumer credit information. Generally, FCRA rulemaking and enforcement authority with respect to the Banks and ING Bank now resides with CFPB. In addition, the FCRA creates a limited private right of action for consumers to seek relief for certain
violations for the FCRA.

Investment in the Company, the Banks and ING Bank

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly,
acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval. Each of the Banks and ING Bank is an “insured depository institution” within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act.

USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement
mechanisms for the U.S. government, including: due diligence requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions,
regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; reporting requirements applicable to the receipt of coins and currency of more than $10,000 in nonfinancial trades or businesses; and more
broadly applicable suspicious activity reporting requirements.

The Department of Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve and other
federal financial institution regulators, has promulgated rules and regulations implementing the Patriot Act that prohibit correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks at U.S. financial institutions; require financial institutions to maintain
certain records relating to correspondent accounts for foreign banks; require financial institutions to produce certain records upon request of the appropriate federal banking agency; require due diligence with respect to private banking and
correspondent banking accounts; facilitate information sharing between government and financial institutions; require verification of customer identification; and require financial institutions to have an anti-money laundering program in place.







Non-Bank Activities

Our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. Our insurance agency subsidiaries, for example, are regulated by state insurance
regulatory agencies in the states in which we operate. Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients and is regulated by the New York State
Insurance Department in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates.

Capital One
Investment Services LLC, Capital One Southcoast Capital, Inc. and ING DIRECT Investment, Inc. are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among
other things, net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing
commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates.
Broker-dealers are also subject to other regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure,
record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.

Capital One Asset Management LLC, which provides investment advice to
institutions, foundations, endowments and high net worth individuals, is a registered investment adviser regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Financial Advisors LLC is a New York-state registered investment adviser.
ShareBuilder Advisors, LLC is an SEC-registered investment adviser that provides investment advice to retail customers.

Regulation of
International Business by Non—U.S. Authorities

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently
in the United Kingdom and Canada.

United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, COBNA operates through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), which was established in 2000. Effective December 1, 2010, COEP became an authorized payment institution
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”) under the Payment Services Regulations 2009. COEP is a member of the Lending Code, which sets standards of good lending practice in relation to loans, credit cards and current
account overdrafts. COEP is not a retail deposit-taker. COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s
Regulation K.

In 2010, the U.K. Government announced plans to change the structure of financial regulation by the end of 2012. As part of
this change, the FSA will cease to exist in its current form. The U.K. Government will create a new Prudential Regulatory Authority (the “PRA”), responsible for the day-to-day prudential supervision of financial institutions and a new
Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), responsible for the conduct of all financial services firms. The FSA commenced during 2011 the implementation of a “shadow” structure in preparation for these changes. In addition, a new
Financial Policy Committee (the “FPC”) of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England will be established, which will look across the economy at the macroeconomic and financial issues that may threaten stability and address the risks it
identifies. An Interim FPC was established in February 2011 and first met in June 2011.

In preparation for these changes, the U.K. Government
conducted a range of related consultation work during 2011, in particular focusing on the respective roles and approach of the new regulatory bodies. The consultations included consideration of whether, in addition to the establishment of the FCA,
PRA and FPC, the U.K.







consumer credit regime currently regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) should become the responsibility of a single regulator and/or whether the existing underlying
legislative framework for consumer credit regulation (under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) should be replaced with a model similar to regulation of other retail financial services (under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). The consultations
suggest that the U.K. Government intends that the FCA be a more engaged regulator, with involvement earlier in a product’s lifecycle. The U.K. Government has confirmed there is a consensus amongst consultation respondents in favor of transition
to a single regulator of consumer credit (FCA being identified as the likely best regulatory body to perform this function). The U.K Government has also confirmed there was no clear consensus over potential changes to the underlying legislative
framework regulating consumer credit. The U.K. Government has indicated that further policy development work is needed to enable it to make a determination on the future of consumer credit regulation.

Cross-border interchange fees are under scrutiny from the European Commission (“EC”) and the OFT. The timing of any final resolution of the
matter by the EC or the OFT, which has suspended its own investigation into domestic interchange, is uncertain, but it is anticipated that the OFT will await the outcome of the EC court decision before concluding its own investigation, currently
expected to be Spring 2012. If the EC decision is appealed to the European Court of Justice, we would expect the OFT to continue the suspension. An appeal to the European Court of Justice is unlikely to be decided before 2014.

In January 2012, the EC released a Green Paper that aims at identifying potential measures to create an integrated European market for card, internet and
mobile payments. The current scope of the paper is broad and includes issues such as: market fragmentation; transparency and cost effective pricing of payment services; lack of standardization; interoperability between payment service providers; and
security/privacy concerns of payment service users. The paper also looks at whether interchange arrangements create challenges for a fully integrated European market, which may increase the likelihood of further legislation in this area outside of
the court process outlined above. The EC will review comments from interested parties, which are due April 2012, to decide next steps and what, if any, further regulation is required to create a single European market.

Following a referral by the OFT, the Competition Commission (the “CC”) launched a market investigation into the supply of Payment Protection
Insurance (“PPI”) in the United Kingdom. The scope included PPI on mortgages, credit cards, unsecured loans (personal loans, motor loans and hire purchase) and secured loans. In October 2010, the CC published its final report on remedies,
and the final Order was published in March 2011. Implementation of the main new remedies was split. The first phase was introduced in October 2011 and the second will be introduced in April 2012, with the April 2012 phase including a seven-day point
of sale prohibition.

Following the dismissal of the British Bankers Association’s judicial review, firms, including COEP, have had to
comply with new rules introduced by the FSA in December 2010 governing the handling of PPI complaints. The new rules have resulted in changes to the way that the industry handles PPI complaints and the associated media attention has led to a
significant increase in PPI complaint volumes.

Canada

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (the “Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian
branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (“OSFI”). Other regulators include the Financial
Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws,
including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.







In 2011, four new regulatory developments that affect credit cards issued by federally regulated financial
institutions in Canada became effective. These amendments could increase our operational and compliance costs and affect the types and terms of products that we offer in Canada.

In January 2011, amendments to the Personal Investigations Act of Manitoba came into force (“Manitoba Amendments”). The Manitoba Amendments require credit grantors to take certain steps to
verify a credit applicant’s identity before entering into or amending a credit agreement, following the placement of a security alert with a credit bureau.

In April 2011, the FCAC published its guidance on Consent for Increases in Credit Limits (“FCAC Guidance”). The FCAC Guidance sets out the FCAC Commissioner’s interpretation of the
requirement under the Credit Business Practices (Banks, Authorized Foreign Banks, Trust and Loan Companies, Retail Associations, Canadian Insurance Companies and Foreign Insurance Companies) Regulations to obtain express consent from a borrower
prior to increasing the credit limit on a credit card. The FCAC’s expectation is that credit card issuers obtain express consent from borrowers in each instance of a proposed credit limit increase by the issuer and that such consent is obtained
at the time of the proposed credit limit increase. The FCAC Guidance became effective in July 2011.

In June 2011, the Bank Act was amended to
allow for certain information that is to be provided in writing, to be satisfied by the provision of an electronic document. At the same time, the Electronic Documents (Banks and Bank Holding Companies) Regulations, which prescribe additional
requirements for the provision of electronic documents, became effective. The additional requirements include obtaining customer consent to receive documents electronically and the provision of a notification to customers containing prescribed
information. The amendments specify that customers may revoke consent at any time, and confirmations of such revocation must be provided without delay. The amendments also provide that if there is a reason to believe that a customer did not receive
the electronic document, a paper document must be mailed.

In July 2010, amendments to the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada Act became
effective, expanding the mandate of the FCAC to include monitoring and evaluating trends and consumer issues that may have an impact on consumers of financial products and services. In November 2011, the FCAC published a new Compliance Framework,
which among other changes included amendments to the content, scope and frequency of existing reporting requirements and introduced a new requirement to self-report certain compliance issues. Some of the new reporting requirements were effective
immediately, while others will be effective on April 1, 2012.





COMPETITION



Each of our business segments
operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa®and MasterCard®credit cards,
as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit and other
product features, and customer loyalty is often limited.

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national and
state banks and direct banks for deposits, auto loans, mortgages and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, mortgage banking
companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms
and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial
services industry is also likely to become more







competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other
financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides our customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in
favor of products and services offered by competitors.

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their
products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of our products and geographies and products, we compete
globally and with respect to others, we compete on a regional basis. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our professional and other associates and on our reputation. In the current environment, customers are
generally attracted to depository institutions that are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding.

We believe that we are able to
compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the
competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”





EMPLOYEES



A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain a highly capable staff. We had 31,542 employees, whom we refer to as “associates,” as of December 31, 2011. None of our associates
are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our employee relations to be satisfactory.





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION



Geographic Diversity

Our consumer loan portfolios, including credit cards, are diversified across the United States with modest concentration in California,
Texas, New York, Florida, Louisiana and Illinois. We also have credit card loans in the U.K. and Canada. Our commercial loans are concentrated in New York, Texas, Louisiana and New Jersey. See “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile” and
“Note 22—Significant Concentration of Credit Risk” for additional information.

Technology/Systems

We leverage information technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’
needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and
diversified products. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we
continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part
of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Over
time, we have increasingly relied on third party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. (“TSYS”) for processing
services for our North American and United Kingdom portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts, Fidelity National Information Services (“Fidelity”) for the Capital One banking systems and IBM Corporation for
management of our North American data centers.







To protect our systems and technologies, we employ security, backup and recovery systems and generally
require the same of our third-party service providers. In addition, we perform, or cause to be performed, a variety of vulnerability and penetration testing on the platforms, systems and applications used to provide our products and services in an
effort to ensure that any attacks on these platforms, systems and applications are unlikely to succeed. To date, to our knowledge, we have not been targeted with a direct, material cyber attack. We do not believe that the direct attacks we have seen
have resulted in outside entities successfully penetrating our security controls.

Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights,
trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation, and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may
be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or
proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors and other third parties to obtain such patents may adversely
affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents
may not adversely impact our financial results.





FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS



From time to time, we have made and will make
forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, expenses, capital measures, returns, accruals for claims in litigation and for
other claims against us; earnings per share or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; the projected impact and benefits of the acquisition of ING Direct (the
“ING Direct Transaction”) and the pending acquisition of HSBC’s U.S. credit card business (the “HSBC Transaction” and, with the ING Direct Transaction, the “Transactions”); and the assumptions that underlie these
matters.

To the extent that any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking
information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:



•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels,
interest rates, consumer income and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;



•an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment);



•the possibility that regulatory and other approvals and conditions to the HSBC Transaction are not obtained or satisfied on a timely basis or at all;



•the possibility that modifications to the terms of the HSBC Transaction may be required in order to obtain or satisfy such approvals or conditions;



•the possibility that we will not receive third-party consents necessary to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the HSBC Transaction;



•the possibility that we may not fully realize the projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the Transactions;







•changes in the anticipated timing for closing the HSBC Transaction;



•difficulties and delays in integrating the assets and businesses acquired in the Transactions;



•business disruption during the pendency of or following the Transactions;



•diversion of management time on issues related to the Transactions, including integration of the assets and businesses acquired;



•reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the Transactions;



•disruptions relating to the Transactions negatively impacting our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers;



•changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the Transactions;



•the accuracy of estimates and assumptions we use to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Transactions, and the
potential for our estimates or assumptions to change as additional information becomes available and we complete the accounting analysis of the Transactions;



•financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder;



•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation matter involving us;



•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;



•increases or decreases in interest rates;



•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth;



•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;



•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or
decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances;



•the level of future repurchase or indemnification requests we may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage loans relating to such requests,
the success rates of claimants against us, any developments in litigation and the actual recoveries we may make on any collateral relating to claims against us;



•the amount and rate of deposit growth;



•changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial
condition;



•any significant disruption in our operations or technology platform;



•our ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for our size and complexity;



•our ability to control costs;



•the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas;



•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;



•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting our response rates and consumer payments;



•our ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services;



•changes in the labor and employment markets;



•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees or business partners;



•competition from providers of products and services that compete with our businesses; and







•other risk factors listed from time to time in reports that we file with the SEC.

Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake
any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above in evaluating these forward-looking statements. For additional information on
factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set forth under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

