Item 1. Business





OVERVIEW



General

Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware Corporation established in 1995 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services
holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients
through branches, the internet and other distribution channels. As of December 31, 2012, our principal subsidiaries included:



•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and
deposit products; and



•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small
businesses and commercial clients.

The Company and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as
“we”, “us” or “our.” CONA and COBNA are collectively referred to as the “Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2012 Form 10-K” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2012. All references to 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011, December 31,
2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.

As one of the nation’s 10 largest banks
based on deposits as of December 31, 2012, we service banking customer accounts through the internet and branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. In addition to bank
lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and mortgage banking in markets across the United States. We were the fourth largest issuer of Visa®(“Visa”) and MasterCard®(“MasterCard”) credit cards in the United States based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2012.

We also offer products outside of the United States principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA
organized and located in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. COEP has authority, among other things, to provide credit card and installment loans. Effective December 1, 2010, as a result of the
transition of our U.K. operations to an Authorized Payment Institution, we are no longer authorized to accept deposits in the U.K. Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.

We had total loans held for investment of $205.9 billion, deposits of $212.5 billion and stockholders’ equity of $40.5 billion as of
December 31, 2012, compared with total loans held for investment of $135.9 billion, deposits of $128.2 billion and stockholders’ equity of $29.7 billion as of December 31, 2011.

Recent Acquisitions

We regularly
explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services companies and financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also regularly consider the
potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of businesses. We may issue equity or debt in connection with acquisitions, including public offerings, to fund such acquisitions. Below we provide information
on acquisitions completed in 2012 and 2011.







Acquisitions in 2012

ING Direct

On February 17, 2012, we completed the acquisition (the “ING Direct
acquisition”) of substantially all of the ING Direct business in the United States (“ING Direct”) from ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING Direct N.V. and ING Direct Bancorp (collectively the “ING Direct Sellers”). The ING
Direct acquisition resulted in the addition of loans of $40.4 billion, other assets of $53.9 billion and deposits of $84.4 billion as of the acquisition date.

On October 17, 2012, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) approved, subject to several conditions, CONA’s application to merge with ING Bank, fsb with CONA surviving
the merger. Capital One effected the merger on November 1, 2012. In addition, the OCC approved CONA’s companion application to reduce capital surplus, which was necessary to manage excess capital levels that would result from the merger.
CONA effected the reduction in surplus through a return of capital to Capital One Financial Corporation immediately prior to the merger. The merger and reduction in CONA’s capital surplus had no effect on Capital One’s total capital.

HSBC—U.S. Credit Card Business

On May 1, 2012, pursuant to the agreement with HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc. (collectively, “HSBC”), we closed the acquisition of
substantially all of the assets and assumed liabilities of HSBC’s credit card and private-label credit card business in the United States (other than the HSBC Bank USA, National Association consumer credit card program and certain other
retained assets and liabilities) (the “2012 U.S. card acquisition,” which we sometimes refer to as the “HSBC U.S. card acquisition”). The 2012 U.S. card acquisition included (i) the acquisition of HSBC’s U.S. credit
card portfolio, (ii) its on-going private label and co-branded partnerships, and (iii) other assets, including infrastructure and capabilities. At closing, we acquired approximately 27 million new active accounts, approximately $27.8
billion in outstanding credit card receivables designated as held for investment and approximately $327 million in other net assets.

Acquisitions in 2011

Hudson’s Bay Company—Credit Card Portfolio

On January 7, 2011, we acquired the existing credit card loan portfolio of Hudson’s Bay Company (“HBC”), one of the largest retailers in Canada, from GE Capital Retail Finance. The
acquisition included outstanding credit card loan receivables with a fair value of approximately $1.4 billion and the transfer of approximately 400 employees directly involved in managing HBC’s loan portfolio. The acquisition and partnership
with HBC significantly expanded our credit card customer base in Canada, tripling the number of customer accounts, and provided an additional distribution channel.

Kohl’s—Credit Card Portfolio

On April 1, 2011, we acquired the existing
private-label credit card loan portfolio of Kohl’s Department Stores (“Kohl’s”) from JPMorgan Chase & Co. pursuant to a partnership agreement we entered into in August 2010 with Kohl’s. The existing portfolio
consisted of more than 20 million Kohl’s customer accounts with an outstanding principal and interest balance of approximately $3.7 billion at acquisition. Under the terms of the partnership agreement and in conjunction with the
acquisition, we began issuing Kohl’s branded private-label credit cards to new and existing Kohl’s customers on April 1, 2011.







Additional Information

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the S&P 100 Index. As of January 31, 2013, there were 14,059 holders
of record of our common stock. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 (telephone number (703) 720-1000). We maintain a Web site at www.capitalone.com. Documents available on our Web site
include: (i) our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; (ii) our Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) charters for the Audit and Risk, Compensation, Finance and Trust Oversight, and Governance and Nominating
Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.

In addition, we
make available free of charge through our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or
furnishing such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).





OPERATIONS AND
BUSINESS SEGMENTS



Our consolidated
total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers and by deposit-taking activities net of the costs associated with funding our assets, which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate
non-interest income, such as fee-based services provided to customers and merchant interchange fees with respect to certain credit card transactions. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses (including
associate salaries and benefits, occupancy and equipment costs, professional services, infrastructure enhancements and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses and income taxes.

Our principal operations are currently organized for management reporting purposes into three primary business segments, which are defined primarily
based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. The acquired ING Direct
business is primarily reflected in our Consumer Banking business, while the business acquired in the 2012 U.S. card acquisition is reflected in our Credit Card business. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our
corporate investment portfolio and asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group, are included in the “Other” category.



•Credit Card:Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, national small business lending, national closed end installment
lending and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.



•Consumer Banking:Consists of our branch-based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumers and small businesses, national deposit
gathering, national auto lending and consumer home loan lending and servicing activities.



•Commercial Banking:Consists of our lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and
industrial customers. Our commercial and industrial customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $10 million to $1.0 billion.

In the first quarter of 2012, we re-aligned the loan categories reported by our Commercial Banking business and the loan customer and product types included within each category. Prior period amounts have
been recast to conform to the current period presentation.

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense
and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volumes and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to higher seasonal consumer spending and payment patterns around the







winter holiday season, summer vacations and back-to-school periods. Although there is some seasonal impact to purchase volumes and credit card loan balances in our Credit Card business, these
seasonal trends have not caused significant fluctuations in our results of operations. No individual quarter in 2012, 2011 or 2010 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues in any of these fiscal years. Delinquency rates in our consumer
lending businesses also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns, with delinquency rates generally tending to decrease in the first two quarters of the year as customers use income tax refunds to pay down outstanding loan balances.

For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business and the realignment of our Commercial Banking
business, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial
Performance” and “Note 20—Business Segments” of this Report.





SUPERVISION AND
REGULATION



General

Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. § 1842) (the “BHC Act”) and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its capital adequacy standards and limitations on our nonbanking activities. We are also subject to supervision,
examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident
thereto, such as consumer lending and other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf of the BHC or any of its
affiliates. Impermissible activities for BHCs include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to any
banks that we control, including the Banks, and to commit resources to support them.

On May 27, 2005, we became a “financial
holding company” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act (the “GLBA”). The GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and
the nonbank companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature (including, for example, insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking
activities), incidental to financial activities or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.

Our election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository institutions we control meet certain criteria, including
capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Effective July 21, 2011, under amendments to the BHC Act enacted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank
Act”), Capital One Financial Corporation also must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” If we were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding company status, we could, depending on which requirements
we failed to meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or be required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the
“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) up to applicable limits. In addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA’s international operations (discussed below), the Banks are
subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC, the FDIC and, effective July 21, 2011, by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”).







We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and, as such, we are
subject to periodic examination by Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business (see below under “Regulation of International Business by Non–U.S.
Authorities”).

Regulation of Business Activities

The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting
Act (the “FCRA”), the CRA and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, as well as under various state laws. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these
statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of a
bank to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws may affect the ability of banks to collect outstanding balances.

Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

The Credit CARD Act (amending the Truth-In-Lending Act) enacted in May 2009, and related changes to Regulation Z, impose a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees and
update the disclosures required for open-end credit. Overlimit fees may not be imposed without prior consent, and the number of such fees that can be charged for the same violation is constrained. The amount of any penalty fee or charge must be
“reasonable and proportional” to the violation. The Credit CARD Act also significantly restricts the ability of a card issuer to increase rates charged on pre-existing card balances. Card issuers are generally prohibited from raising rates
on pre-existing balances when generally prevailing interest rates change. Moreover, the circumstances under which a card issuer can raise the interest rate on pre-existing balances of a customer whose risk of default increases are restricted.
Payments above the minimum payment must be allocated first to balances with the highest interest rate. The amount of fees charged to credit card accounts with lower credit lines is limited. A consumer’s ability to pay must be taken into account
before issuing credit or increasing credit limits.

State Consumer Financial Laws

The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, a new independent supervisory body, that is the primary regulator for federal consumer financial statutes. State
attorneys general will be authorized to enforce new regulations issued by the CFPB. State consumer financial laws will continue to be preempted under the National Bank Act under the existing standard set forth in the Supreme Court decision in
Barnett Bank of Marion County, N.A. v. Nelson, which preempts any state law that significantly interferes with or impairs banking powers. OCC determinations of such preemption, however, must be on a case-by-case basis, and courts reviewing the
OCC’s preemption determinations will now consider the appropriateness of those determinations under a different standard of judicial review. These laws may affect the ability of the Banks to collect outstanding balances.

Mortgage Lending

The Dodd-Frank
Act prescribes additional disclosure requirements and substantive limitations on our mortgage lending activities. Most of these provisions require the issuance of regulations by the CFPB or other federal agencies before they become effective. Though
we do not expect the resulting regulations to have a material impact on our operations, one new requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act, the requirement for mortgage loan securitizers to retain a portion of the economic risk associated with certain
mortgage loans, could impact the type and amount of mortgage loans we offer, depending on the final regulations.

Debit Interchange Fees

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card
transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the







transaction. In June 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule and an interim final rule (which largely was adopted in final form in July 2012) implementing the portion of the Dodd-Frank Act
that limits interchange fees received by a debit card issuer. The final rules limit interchange fees per debit card transaction to $.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provide for an additional $.01 fraud prevention adjustment
to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements.

Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized capital planning rules applicable to large bank holding companies like us (commonly
referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or CCAR). Under the rules, bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and must obtain approval
from the Federal Reserve before making most capital distributions. The purpose of the rules is to ensure that large bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks and capital
needs to continue operations through times of economic and financial stress. As part of its evaluation of a capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the comprehensiveness of the plan, the reasonableness of assumptions and analysis and
methodologies used to assess capital adequacy and the ability of the bank holding company to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful
conditions throughout a planning horizon of at least nine quarters.

Traditionally, dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries
have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or
otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable
state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the
institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Capital Adequacy

The Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines,
see “MD&A—Capital Management” and “Note 13—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.” The Banks exceeded minimum regulatory requirements under these guidelines as of December 31, 2012.

FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action

In general, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) subjects banks to significantly increased regulation and supervision. Among other things, FDICIA requires
federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” for banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly
undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. Under applicable regulations, a bank is considered to be well capitalized if it maintains a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any supervisory agreement, order or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. A bank is considered to be adequately capitalized if it maintains a
total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3% for certain highly rated institutions), and does not otherwise meet the well capitalized definition.
The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the







amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to adequately capitalized institutions. The capital categories are determined solely for purposes of applying FDICIA’s prompt
corrective action provisions, and such capital categories may not constitute an accurate representation of the Banks’ overall financial condition or prospects. As of December 31, 2012, each of the Banks met the requirements for a
well-capitalized institution.

As summarized below, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC released a proposed rule in June 2012 that would update
the prompt corrective action framework to reflect new, higher regulatory capital minimums. For a further discussion of the Basel III proposed rule, see “Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules Proposals” below.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires regulators to establish certain
non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to
meet such standards.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act

In addition to the provisions described throughout this Supervision and Regulation section, the Dodd-Frank Act
imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, affiliate transactions, and proprietary trading (the “Volcker Rule”). In 2012, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“CFTC”) and the SEC jointly issued final rules further defining the Dodd-Frank Act’s “swap dealer” definitions. Based on the final rules, no Capital One entity will be required to register with the CFTC or SEC as a swap
dealer; however, this may change in the future. If such registration occurs, the registered entity is currently required to comply with additional regulatory requirements relating to its derivatives activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all
swap market participants to keep swap transaction data records and report certain information to swap data repositories on a real-time and on-going basis. Further, each swap, group, category, type or class of swap that the CFTC or SEC determines
must be cleared will need to be cleared through a derivatives clearinghouse unless the swap is eligible for a clearing exemption and executed on a designated contract market (“DCM”), exchange or swap execution facility (“SEF”)
unless no DCM, exchange or SEF has made the swap available for trading. The Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits conflicts of interest relating to







securitizations and generally requires securitizers to retain a 5% economic interest in the credit risk of assets sold through the issuance of asset-backed securitizations, with an exemption for
traditionally underwritten residential mortgage loans that meet the definition of a qualified residential mortgage loan. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions related to corporate governance and executive compensation and new fees and
assessments, among others.

The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations of the
Dodd-Frank Act. These rules may result in modifications to our business models and organizational structure, and may subject us to escalating costs associated with any such changes. However, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known
for many months or, in some cases, years. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires various studies and reports to be delivered to Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action.

Basel II

U.S. Federal banking
regulators finalized the “Advanced” version of Basel II in December 2007. These Advanced Approaches rules are mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated total on-balance-sheet
foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. We became subject to these rules at the end of 2012 primarily as a result of the ING Direct acquisition.

Prior to full implementation of the Basel II framework, organizations must complete a qualification period of four consecutive quarters, known as the parallel run, during which they must meet the
requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of their primary U.S. banking regulator. We currently expect to enter parallel run on January 1, 2015. This will require completing a written implementation plan and building processes and
systems to comply with the rules. Compliance with the Basel II rules will require a material investment of resources.

The Collins Amendment
within the Dodd-Frank Act and the U.S. banking regulators’ implementing final rules establish a capital floor so that organizations subject to the Basel II Advanced Approaches rules may not hold less capital than would be required using the
generally applicable risk-based and leverage capital calculations. Our current analysis suggests that our risk-weighted assets will increase under the Basel II framework, and therefore we would need to hold more regulatory capital in order to
maintain a given capital ratio. We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new rules with respect to the institutions that are subject to them and assess the potential impact to us.

Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules Proposals

In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) released proposals for additional capital and liquidity requirements, which have been clarified and amended
in recent pronouncements (“Basel III”). In September 2010, the Basel Committee announced a package of reforms that included detailed capital ratios and capital conservation buffers, subject to transition periods through 2018. In December
2010, the Basel Committee published a final framework on capital and liquidity, consistent in large part with the prior proposals. In November 2011, the Basel Committee adopted a framework that would require additional Tier 1 common capital for
systemically important institutions. This surcharge would vary based on the firm’s systemic importance as determined using five criteria (size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity). As
described above, the U.S. federal banking agencies have stated that they intend to implement this surcharge, although the extent to which it would apply to us is unclear.

The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC released in June 2012 three proposed rules that would substantially revise the federal banking agencies’ current capital rules, including the current Basel II
Advanced Approaches, and implement the Basel III capital framework described above. The first proposal, known as the Basel III proposal, would increase the general risk-based capital ratio minimum requirements, modify the definition of regulatory
capital, establish a minimum Tier 1 common ratio requirement, introduce a new capital conservation buffer requirement, and update the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums.







For those institutions subject to the Basel II Advanced Approaches framework discussed above, the proposal would also implement a supplementary leverage ratio that incorporates a broader set of
exposures in the denominator and would introduce a new countercyclical capital buffer requirement. The second proposal, known as the Standardized Approach proposal, would revise the federal banking agencies’ general approach for calculating
risk-weighted assets to reflect a more risk-sensitive risk-weighting approach and remove reliance on external credit ratings, as required by Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. The third proposal would modify the existing Basel II rules for
calculating risk-weighted assets by implementing elements of the Basel III framework and removing reliance on external credit ratings. As discussed above, under the Collins Amendment within the Dodd-Frank Act, organizations subject to the Basel II
rules must calculate their risk-based capital under both the Standardized Approach and the Advanced Approach and use the lower of each of the relevant capital ratios to determine whether it meets the minimum risk-based capital requirements.

The proposed rules would go into effect according to different start dates and phase-in periods. If finalized as proposed, the rules would
increase the minimum capital that we and other institutions would be required to hold.

In December 2010, the Basel Committee also published a
liquidity framework, which was subsequently amended in January 2013. The liquidity framework includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision, each subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements. One standard promotes short-term
resilience by requiring sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a stress scenario lasting for 30 days. This standard, the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is included in the amended liquidity framework. The other standard
promotes longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period, based on the liquidity characteristics of assets and activities. This standard remains under development by the Basel Committee. We expect that minimum
liquidity requirements for us and other institutions will increase as a result of the Basel III liquidity framework, though rules implementing the Basel III liquidity framework have not yet been proposed by the U.S. federal banking agencies.

We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new capital and liquidity rules and assess the potential impact to us.

Market Risk Capital Rule

A market risk capital rule, which the federal banking regulators amended in August 2012, supplements both the general risk-based capital rules and the Basel II Advanced Approaches rules by requiring
institutions subject to the rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading activities. The rule applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to the lesser of (i) 10
percent or more of total assets or (ii) $1 billion or more. We are not yet subject to this rule but may become subject to it in the future.

Deposits and Deposit Insurance

Each of CONA and COBNA, as an insured depository
institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed on March 31, 2006, upon the merger of
the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act permits the FDIC to set a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”)
for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

Prior to passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC had established a plan to restore the DIF in the face of recent insurance losses and future loss
projections, which resulted in several rules that generally increased deposit insurance rates and purported to improve risk differentiation so that riskier institutions bear a greater share of insurance premiums. The Dodd- Frank Act reformed the
management of the DIF in several ways: raised the minimum DRR to 1.35% (from the former minimum of 1.15%) and removed the upper limit on the DRR;







required that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016); required that in setting assessments, the FDIC must offset the effect of meeting the
increased reserve ratio on small insured depository institutions; and eliminated the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends from the DIF when the reserve ratio reaches certain levels. The FDIC has set the DRR at 2% and, in lieu of dividends, has
established progressively lower assessment rate schedules as the reserve ratio meets certain trigger levels. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the FDIC to change the deposit insurance assessment base from deposits to average consolidated total assets
minus average tangible equity. In February 2011, the FDIC finalized rules to implement this change that significantly modified how deposit insurance assessment rates are calculated for those banks with assets of $10 billion or greater.

Banks may accept brokered deposits as part of their funding. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
(“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk,” only “well-capitalized” and “adequately-capitalized” institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions, however, must
first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits from
outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity.

The FDIC is authorized to terminate
a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or
condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its earnings.

Overdraft Protection

The Federal Reserve amended Regulation E in November 2009 to limit
the ability to assess overdraft fees for paying ATM and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer opts in to such payment of overdrafts. The rule does not apply to overdraft services with respect
to checks, ACH transactions, or recurring debit card transactions, or to the payment of overdrafts pursuant to a line of credit or a service that transfers funds from another account. We are required to provide to customers written notice describing
our overdraft service, fees imposed and other information, and to provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt in to the service. Before we may assess fees for paying discretionary overdrafts, a customer must affirmatively opt in, which
could negatively impact our deposit business revenue.

Source of Strength and Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions

Under the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength
to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of strength doctrine, directing the Federal Reserve to require bank holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength
to its subsidiary banks.

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act
of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance
to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act provides the FDIC with liquidation
authority that may be used to liquidate non-bank financial companies, including Capital One Financial Corporation and its non-bank subsidiaries, if the Treasury







Secretary, in consultation with the President and based on the recommendation of the Federal Reserve and another federal agency, determines that doing so is necessary, among other criteria, to
mitigate serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must liquidate the company in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard.
The costs of a liquidation of a financial company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its
liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future.

FFIEC Account Management Guidance

On January 8, 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) released Account Management and Loss Allowance
Guidance (the “Guidance”). The Guidance applies to all credit lending of regulated financial institutions and generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their lending programs, including line assignments, over-limit
practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the accounting methodology used for various assets and income items related to loans.

We believe that our account management and loss allowance practices are prudent and appropriate and, consistent with the Guidance. We caution, however, the Guidance provides wide discretion to bank
regulatory agencies in the application of the Guidance to any particular institution and its account management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the Guidance, bank examiners could require changes in our account management or loss
allowance practices in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.

Fair
Credit Reporting

Like other financial institutions, the Banks rely upon consumer reports for prescreen marketing, underwriting new loans
and for reviewing and managing risks associated with existing accounts. In addition, the Banks furnish customer account information to the major consumer reporting agencies. The use of consumer reports by the Banks and furnishing of account
information to the consumer reporting agencies is regulated under the FCRA on a uniform, nationwide basis. This includes restrictions on the ability of the Banks to share consumer report information with affiliates and to use customer account
information shared by affiliates for a marketing purpose. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”), extends the federal preemption of the FCRA permanently, although the law authorizes states to enact laws
regulating certain subject matters so long as they are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the FCRA. The FACT Act also added new provisions to the FCRA designed to address the growing crime of identity theft and to improve the accuracy of
consumer credit information. Generally, FCRA rulemaking and enforcement authority with respect to the Banks now resides with CFPB. In addition, the FCRA creates a limited private right of action for consumers to seek relief for certain violations of
the FCRA.

Investment in the Company and the Banks

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly,
acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval. Each of the Banks is an “insured depository institution” within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act.

Consequently, federal law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases, prior written approval of
the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company
acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and is subject to any of a number of specified “control factors” as set forth in the applicable regulations.







Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions
(the “Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its
holding company without making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions.

USA
PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial
transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms for the U.S. government, including: due diligence requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer
identification at account opening; rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; reporting requirements applicable to the
receipt of coins and currency of more than $10,000 in nonfinancial trades or businesses; and more broadly applicable suspicious activity reporting requirements.

The Department of Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve and other federal financial institution regulators, has promulgated rules and regulations implementing the Patriot Act that prohibit
correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks at U.S. financial institutions; require financial institutions to maintain certain records relating to correspondent accounts for foreign banks; require financial institutions to produce certain records
upon request of the appropriate federal banking agency; require due diligence with respect to private banking and correspondent banking accounts; facilitate information sharing between government and financial institutions; require verification of
customer identification; and require financial institutions to have an anti-money laundering program in place.

Non-Bank Activities

Our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. Capital One
Investment Services LLC, Capital One Southcoast, Inc. and Capital One Sharebuilder, Inc. are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among other
things, net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments
to customers and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are
also subject to other regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and
the conduct of directors, officers and employees.

Capital One Asset Management LLC, which provides investment advice to institutions,
foundations, endowments and high net worth individuals, is an SEC-registered investment adviser regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. ShareBuilder Advisors, LLC is also an SEC-registered investment adviser. Capital One Financial
Advisors LLC is a state-registered investment adviser.

Finally, our insurance agency subsidiaries are regulated by state insurance regulatory
agencies in the states in which we operate. Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients and is regulated by the New York State Department of
Financial Services in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates.







Regulation of International Business by Non-U.S. Authorities

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom and Canada.

United Kingdom

In the United
Kingdom, COBNA operates through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), which was established in 2000 and is an authorized payment institution regulated by the Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”) under the Payment Services
Regulations 2009. COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K.

A coalition government of the Liberal Democrat and Conservative parties was established in the U.K. following the general election held in May
2010. The new coalition government has made significant changes to the framework of financial services regulation. As part of these changes, in April 2013, the Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”) will cease to exist in its
current form and will split into a new Prudential Regulatory Authority (the “PRA”) and a new Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”). From April 2013, COEP will be regulated by the FCA and not the PRA. The FCA is expected to
be a more engaged regulator that will be involved earlier in a product’s lifecycle and will focus more heavily on consumer outcomes. Consultation activity is also expected during 2013 as to whether and how the U.K. consumer credit regime
currently regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”) should transfer to the FCA and/or whether the existing underlying legislative framework for consumer credit regulation (under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) should be replaced
with a model similar to regulation of other retail financial services (under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000).

Regulatory focus
on Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) complaint handling has continued following the introduction of new FSA rules in December 2010 governing the handling of PPI complaints. As anticipated, PPI complaint volumes have increased
significantly following the regulatory focus on PPI. COEP has completed root cause analysis of its historic PPI sales and developed a remediation plan. The FSA is monitoring firms’ compliance with the new complaint handling rules.

The EC has also issued a draft regulation which will replace the Data Protection Act 1998. This will be directly effective without the need for
additional U.K. legislation. The date on which the regulation will come into force has not yet been confirmed, but it is expected to be in the next two years. There will then be a two-year grace







period to work towards compliance with the regulation. Key proposed changes that we expect would impact COEP include:



•Requirement on companies to notify any breach of the regulation to the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”) and to individuals
whose data has been affected or compromised as a result of the breach;



•Increased powers, including the ability to assess fines, given to the ICO;



•Requirement to conduct a Privacy Impact Assessment for all areas of the business including any changes to systems.



•Mandatory appointment of a data protection officer who must act independently and autonomously at all times.



•Widening of the definition of personal data.

Canada

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the
Bank Act (Canada) (the “Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada
is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (“OSFI”). Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial
Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws, including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and
the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.

In 2012, there were two new regulatory developments that affect credit
cards issued by federally regulated financial institutions in Canada. These amendments could increase our operational and compliance costs and affect the types and terms of products that we offer in Canada.

In March 2012, Negative Option Billing Regulations were made under the Bank Act. These regulations require federally regulated financial institutions to
obtain the express consent of individuals before providing new primary or optional products and services to individuals. Generally, the Negative Option Billing Regulations prescribe the timing, manner and content of disclosure that must be provided
to individuals before they can expressly consent to new products or services. These regulations came into force on August 1, 2012.

In
September 2012, the Credit Business Practices (Banks, Authorized Foreign Banks, Trust and Loan Companies, Retail Associations, Canadian Insurance Companies and Foreign Insurance Companies) Regulations were amended to require a bank to obtain express
consent prior to providing credit card checks to a borrower. If consent is given orally, the bank must provide confirmation of that consent in writing (paper or electronic). The amended regulations also provide that the use of the credit card or the
use of the check does not constitute express consent. These amendments will come into force on June 20, 2013.





COMPETITION



Each of our business segments
operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa®and MasterCard®credit cards,
as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of
price, credit limit and other product features.

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national and state banks
and direct banks for deposits, auto loans, mortgages and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit







unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other
similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire
banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological
advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In addition, competition
among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors.

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price.
Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our professional and other associates and on our reputation. In the current
environment, customers are generally attracted to depository institutions that are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding.

We
believe that we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted
by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”





EMPLOYEES



A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain a highly capable staff. We had 39,593 employees, whom we refer to as “associates,” as of December 31, 2012. None of our associates
are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our associate relations to be satisfactory.





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION



Geographic Diversity

Our consumer loan portfolios, including credit cards, are diversified across the United States with modest concentration in California,
Texas, New York, Florida, Louisiana and Illinois. We also have credit card loans in the U.K. and Canada. Our commercial loans are concentrated in New York, Texas, Louisiana and New Jersey. See “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile” and
“Note 5—Loans” for additional information.

Technology/Systems

We leverage information technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the
development of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and diversified products. We believe that the continued
development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire
systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our
technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Over time, we have increasingly relied on third party
outsourcers to help us







deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. (“TSYS”) for processing services for our
North American and United Kingdom portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts, Fidelity Information Services (“FIS”) for the Capital One banking systems and IBM Corporation for management of our North American data
centers.

To protect our systems and technologies, we employ security, backup and recovery systems and generally require the same of our
third-party service providers. In addition, we perform, or cause to be performed, a variety of vulnerability and penetration testing on the platforms, systems and applications used to provide our products and services in an effort to ensure that any
attacks on these platforms, systems and applications are unlikely to succeed. Despite these controls, Capital One, along with several other U.S. financial services providers, was targeted recently on several occasions with distributed
denial-of-service attacks from sophisticated third parties that succeeded, on a few occasions, in temporarily limiting our ability to service customers through online platforms.

Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance
our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation, and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and
distribution of our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions
may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability
of our competitors and other third parties to obtain such patents may adversely affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be
successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results.





FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS



From time to time, we
have made and will make forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, expenses, capital measures, returns, accruals for claims
in litigation and for other claims against us; earnings per share or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; the projected impact and benefits of the ING Direct and
2012 U.S. card acquisitions (collectively, the “Transactions”); and the assumptions that underlie these matters.

To the extent that
any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ
materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:



•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels,
interest rates, consumer income and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;



•an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment);



•financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards, including Basel-related initiatives and potential changes to financial accounting and reporting standards;







•the possibility that we may not fully realize the projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the Transactions;



•difficulties and delays in integrating the assets and businesses acquired in the Transactions;



•business disruption following the Transactions;



•diversion of management time on issues related to the Transactions, including integration of the assets and businesses acquired;



•reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the Transactions;



•disruptions relating to the Transactions negatively impacting our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers;



•changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the Transactions;



•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation matter involving us;



•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;



•increases or decreases in interest rates;



•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth;



•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;



•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or
decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances;



•the level of future repurchase or indemnification requests we may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage loans relating to such requests,
the success rates of claimants against us, any developments in litigation and the actual recoveries we may make on any collateral relating to claims against us;



•the amount and rate of deposit growth;



•changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial
condition;



•any significant disruption in our operations or technology platform;



•our ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business;



•our ability to control costs;



•the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas;



•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;



•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting our response rates and consumer payments;



•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the internet affecting the ability of our customers to access their accounts and
conduct banking transactions;



•our ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services;



•changes in the labor and employment markets;



•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees or business partners;







•competition from providers of products and services that compete with our businesses; and



•other risk factors listed from time to time in reports that we file with the SEC.

Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake
any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above in evaluating these forward-looking statements. For additional information on
factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set forth under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

