Item 1. Business





OVERVIEW



General

Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware Corporation established in 1995 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services
holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients
through branches, the internet and other distribution channels. As of December 31, 2013, our principal subsidiaries included:



•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and



•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.

The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as “we”, “us” or “our.” COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the
“Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2013 Form 10-K” or “2013 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. All references to 2013, 2012, 2011,
2010, and 2009 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2013, December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Certain
business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary and Acronyms and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

As one of the nation’s 10 largest banks based on deposits as of December 31, 2013, we service banking customer accounts through the internet and
branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and
mortgage banking in markets across the United States. We were the fourth largest issuer of Visa®(“Visa”) and MasterCard®(“MasterCard”) credit cards in the United States based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2013.

We also
offer products outside of the United States principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada.
COEP has authority, among other things, to provide credit card and installment loans. Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.

Recent Acquisitions and Dispositions

We regularly
explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services companies and financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also regularly consider the
potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of businesses. We may issue equity or debt in connection with acquisitions, including public offerings, to fund such acquisitions. Below we provide information
on acquisitions and dispositions completed in 2013 and 2012.

Acquisitions in 2013

On November 1, 2013, we acquired Beech Street Capital, a privately-held, national originator and servicer of Federal National Mortgage Association
(“Fannie Mae”), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation







(“Freddie Mac”) and Federal Housing Authority (“FHA”) multifamily commercial real estate loans. The acquisition expands and enhances our existing multifamily capabilities and
product offerings. At closing, we acquired a mortgage servicing portfolio on approximately $10 billion of loans.

Dispositions in 2013

On September 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the Best Buy private label and co-branded credit card portfolio to Citibank, N.A (“Portfolio
Sale”). Pursuant to the agreement with Citibank, N.A.(“Citibank”), we received $6.4 billion for the net portfolio assets.

Acquisitions in 2012

ING Direct

On February 17, 2012, we completed the acquisition (the “ING Direct acquisition”) of substantially all of the ING Direct business in the United
States (“ING Direct”) from ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V., ING Direct N.V. and ING Direct Bancorp (collectively the “ING Direct Sellers”). The ING Direct acquisition resulted in the addition of loans of $40.4 billion, other assets
of $53.9 billion and deposits of $84.4 billion as of the acquisition date.

HSBC—U.S. Credit Card Business

On May 1, 2012, pursuant to the agreement with HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc. (collectively,
“HSBC”), we closed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed liabilities of HSBC’s credit card and private-label Credit Card business in the United States (other than the HSBC Bank USA, National Association
consumer credit card program and certain other retained assets and liabilities) (the “2012 U.S. card acquisition). The 2012 U.S. card acquisition included (i) the acquisition of HSBC’s U.S. credit card portfolio, (ii) its
on-going private label and co-branded partnerships, and (iii) other assets, including infrastructure and capabilities. At closing, we acquired approximately 27 million new active accounts, approximately $27.8 billion in outstanding credit
card receivables designated as held for investment (“HFI”) and approximately $327 million in other net assets.

Additional Information

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the Standard &
Poor’s (“S&P”) 100 Index. As of January 31, 2014, there were 13,280 holders of record of our common stock. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 (telephone number
(703) 720-1000. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available on our website include: (i) our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; (ii) our Corporate Governance Principles; and
(iii) charters for the Audit, Risk, Compensation, and Governance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy.

In addition, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).









OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS



Our consolidated total net revenues are derived
primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of the costs associated with funding our assets including deposit-taking, which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non-interest income, such as fee-based
services provided to customers and merchant interchange fees with respect to certain credit card transactions. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits,
occupancy and equipment costs, professional services, infrastructure enhancements and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses and income taxes.

Our principal operations are currently organized for management reporting purposes into three primary business segments, which are defined primarily based on
the products and services provided or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not
part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio and asset/ liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group, are included in the “Other” category.



•Credit Card:Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, national closed end installment lending and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.



•Consumer Banking:Consists of our branch-based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumers and small businesses, national deposit gathering, national auto lending and consumer home loan lending and
servicing activities.



•Commercial Banking:Consists of our lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our commercial and industrial customers typically
include companies with annual revenues between $10 million to $1 billion.

In the first quarter of 2012, we re-aligned the loan categories
reported by our Commercial Banking business and the loan customer and product types included within each category. Prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current period presentation. Table 1 summarizes our business segment results,
which we report based on income from continuing operations, net of tax, for 2013, 2012 and 2011. We provide additional information on the realignment of our Commercial Banking business segment under “Business Segment Results” and in
“Note 19—Business Segments” of this Report.

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating
efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volumes and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to higher seasonal consumer spending and payment patterns around the winter
holiday season, summer vacations and back-to-school periods. Although there is some seasonal impact to purchase volumes and credit card loan balances in our Credit Card business, these seasonal trends have not caused significant fluctuations in our
results of operations. No individual quarter in 2013, 2012 or 2011 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues in any of these fiscal years. Delinquency rates in our Credit Card and Consumer businesses also have historically exhibited seasonal
patterns, with delinquency rates generally tending to decrease in the first two quarters of the year as customers use income tax refunds to pay down outstanding loan balances.

For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see “Part II—Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance” and “Note
19—Business Segments” of this Report.









SUPERVISION AND REGULATION



General

Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12
U.S.C. § 1842) (the “BHC Act”) and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its capital adequacy standards and limitations on our nonbanking activities. We are also subject to supervision, examination and regulation by
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, such as consumer lending and
other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf of the BHC or any of its affiliates. Impermissible activities for BHCs
include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), Federal Reserve regulation, and Federal Reserve
policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to any banks that we control, including the Banks, and to commit resources to support them.

On May 27, 2005, we became a “financial holding company” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act (the “GLBA”). The
GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the nonbank companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature
(including, for example, insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve
determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.

Our election to become a
financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository institutions we control meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Effective July 21, 2011, under
amendments to the BHC Act enacted under the Dodd-Frank Act, Capital One Financial Corporation also must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” The failure to meet the criteria for financial holding company status could,
depending on which requirements were not met, result in the company facing restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the
“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) up to applicable limits. In addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA’s international operations (discussed below), the Banks are
subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC, the FDIC and by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”).

We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by Virginia’s
Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business (see below under “Regulation of International Business by Non-U.S. Authorities”).

Regulation of Business Activities

The business
activities of the Company and Banks also are subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations.







Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “FCRA”), the CRA and the Service members Civil Relief Act (“SCRA”), as well as under various state laws. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are
often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state
debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of a bank to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws may affect the ability of banks to collect outstanding balances.

The Credit CARD Act (amending the Truth-In-Lending Act) enacted in May 2009, and related changes to Regulation Z, impose a number of restrictions on credit
card practices impacting rates and fees and update the disclosures required for open-end credit. Overlimit fees may not be imposed without prior consent, and the number of such fees that can be charged for the same violation is constrained. The
amount of any penalty fee or charge must be “reasonable and proportional” to the violation. The Credit CARD Act also significantly restricts the ability of a card issuer to increase rates charged on pre-existing card balances. Card issuers
are generally prohibited from raising rates on pre-existing balances when generally prevailing interest rates change. Moreover, the circumstances under which a card issuer can raise the interest rate on pre-existing balances of a customer whose risk
of default increases are restricted. Payments above the minimum payment must be allocated first to balances with the highest interest rate. The amount of fees charged to credit card accounts with lower credit lines is limited. A consumer’s
ability to pay must be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits. As a result, the rules implementing the Credit CARD Act could make the card business generally less resilient in future economic downturns.

Mortgage Lending

The CFPB has issued several
final rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that provide additional disclosure requirements and substantive limitations on our mortgage lending activities. These rules, which include the Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards Under the
Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z) and Integrated Mortgage Disclosures under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X) and the Truth In Lending Act (Regulation Z), could impact the type and amount of mortgage loans we offer, though
we do not expect the regulations to have a material financial impact on us. The Dodd-Frank Act also generally requires securitizers to retain a five percent economic interest in the credit risk of assets sold through the issuance of asset-backed
securitizations, with an exemption for traditionally underwritten residential mortgage loans that meet the definition of a qualified residential mortgage loan. This requirement also could impact the type and amount of mortgage loans we offer,
depending on the final regulations.

FFIEC Account Management Guidance

On January 8, 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) released Account Management and Loss Allowance Guidance
(the “FFIEC Guidance”). The FFIEC Guidance applies to all credit lending of regulated financial institutions and generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their lending programs, including line assignments,
over-limit practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the accounting methodology used for various assets and income items related to loans.

We believe that our account management and loss allowance practices are prudent and appropriate and consistent with the FFIEC Guidance. We caution, however,
the FFIEC Guidance provides wide discretion to bank regulatory agencies in the application of the FFIEC Guidance to any particular institution and its account management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the FFIEC Guidance, bank
examiners could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.







Fair Credit Reporting

Like other financial institutions, the Banks rely upon consumer reports for prescreen marketing, underwriting new loans and for reviewing and managing risks
associated with existing accounts. In addition, the Banks furnish customer account information to the major consumer reporting agencies. The use of consumer reports by the Banks and furnishing of account information to the consumer reporting
agencies is regulated under the FCRA on a uniform, nationwide basis. This includes restrictions on the ability of the Banks to share consumer report information with affiliates and to use customer account information shared by affiliates for a
marketing purpose. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”), extends the federal preemption of the FCRA permanently, although the law authorizes states to enact laws regulating certain subject matters so long
as they are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the FCRA. The FACT Act also added new provisions to the FCRA designed to address the growing crime of identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. Generally,
FCRA rulemaking and enforcement authority with respect to the Banks resides with the CFPB. In addition, the FCRA creates a limited private right of action for consumers to seek relief for certain violations of the FCRA.

Overdraft Protection

The Federal Reserve amended
Regulation E in November 2009 to limit the ability to assess overdraft fees for paying ATM and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer opts in to such payment of overdrafts. The rule does not
apply to overdraft services with respect to checks, ACH transactions, or recurring debit card transactions, or to the payment of overdrafts pursuant to a line of credit or a service that transfers funds from another account. We are required to
provide to customers written notice describing our overdraft service, fees imposed and other information, and to provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt in to the service. Before we may assess fees for paying discretionary overdrafts,
a customer must affirmatively opt in, which could negatively impact our deposit business revenue.

Debit Interchange Fees

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and
proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. In June 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule and an interim final rule (which largely was adopted in final form in July 2012) implementing the portion of the
Dodd-Frank Act that limits interchange fees received by a debit card issuer. The final rules limited interchange fees per debit card transaction to $0.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provided for an additional $.01 fraud
prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements. On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a ruling that requires the Federal Reserve to reconsider the
current permissible interchange amount. On August 21, 2013, the Federal Reserve appealed this ruling and on September 19, 2013, the District Court stayed its ruling pending the appeal. It remains unclear how the ruling and appeal will
impact the Federal Reserve’s interchange fee rules and our debit card business.

USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced
information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms for the U.S. government, including: due diligence requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to
promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; reporting requirements applicable to the receipt of coins and currency of more than
$10,000 in nonfinancial trades or businesses; and more broadly applicable suspicious activity reporting requirements.







The Department of Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve and other federal financial institution
regulators, has promulgated rules and regulations implementing the Patriot Act that prohibit correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks at U.S. financial institutions; require financial institutions to maintain certain records relating to
correspondent accounts for foreign banks; require financial institutions to produce certain records upon request of the appropriate federal banking agency; require due diligence with respect to private banking and correspondent banking accounts;
facilitate information sharing between government and financial institutions; require verification of customer identification; and require financial institutions to have an anti-money laundering program in place.

Funding

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk,” only well-capitalized and adequately-capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions,
however, must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution’s normal market area or, for
deposits from outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial
condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit
insurance for a bank could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its earnings.

In addition to the provision requiring a securitizer to
retain a portion of the credit risk of an asset-backed securitization, the Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits conflicts of interest relating to securitizations.

Non-Bank Activities

Our non-bank subsidiaries
are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. Capital One Investment Services LLC, Capital One Securities, Inc. and Capital One Sharebuilder, Inc. are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among other things, net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are
required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability
of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to other regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research
reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.

Capital One Asset Management LLC, which provides investment advice to customers of Capital One, N.A., which includes high net worth individuals, institutions,
foundations, endowments and other organizations, is an SEC-registered investment adviser regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. ShareBuilder Advisors, LLC is also an SEC-registered investment adviser. Capital One Financial Advisors LLC
is a state-registered investment adviser.

Finally, Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that provides both personal and business
insurance services to retail and commercial clients and is regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates.







Derivative Activities

In 2012, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC jointly issued final rules further defining the Dodd-Frank Act’s
“swap dealer” definitions. Based on the final rules, no Capital One entity will be required to register with the CFTC or SEC as a swap dealer; however, this may change in the future. If such registration occurs, the registered entity is
required to comply with additional regulatory requirements relating to its derivatives activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all swap market participants to keep swap transaction data records and report certain information to swap data
repositories on a real-time and on-going basis. Further, each swap, group, category, type or class of swap that the CFTC or SEC determines must be cleared will need to be cleared through a derivatives clearinghouse unless the swap is eligible for a
clearing exemption and executed on a designated contract market (“DCM”), exchange or swap execution facility (“SEF”), unless no DCM, exchange or SEF has made the swap available for trading.

Volcker Rule

In December 2013, the Federal
Reserve, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC approved a final rule implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule.” We and each of our subsidiaries, including the Banks, are subject to the Volcker Rule.
The Volcker Rule contains prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain investments in, and relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds, in each case as those terms are defined in the rule, and requires that we implement a robust
compliance program in accordance with the requirements of the rule. Banking organizations have until July 21, 2015 to comply fully with most requirements of the Volcker Rule. Based on our preliminary assessment of the rule’s requirements,
we do not believe that the Volcker Rule will have a material impact on our financial results. We continue to evaluate the final rule to assess its impact on our individual businesses and ensure that our compliance program meets the rule’s
requirements.

Capital Adequacy

The Company and the
Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve and OCC. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management” and “Note 12—Regulatory and Capital
Adequacy.” The Company and the Banks exceeded minimum regulatory requirements under these guidelines as of December 31, 2013.

Advanced
Approaches Rules

The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC (collectively, the “Federal Banking Agencies”) finalized rules implementing the
“Advanced” version of Basel II in December 2007. As discussed below in “Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules,” the Federal Banking Agencies recently amended these rules (as amended, “the Advanced Approaches Rules”). The
Advanced Approaches Rules are mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. We became subject to these rules at the end of
2012. Prior to full implementation of the Advanced Approaches framework, organizations must complete a qualification period of at least four consecutive quarters, known as the parallel run, during which they must meet the requirements of the rule to
the satisfaction of their primary U.S. banking regulator. We are expected to enter parallel run no earlier than January 1, 2015. We have completed the development of our Advanced Approaches implementation plan. Compliance with the Advanced
Approaches Rules will require a material investment of resources in building processes and systems.

The Collins Amendment within the Dodd-Frank Act and
the Federal Banking Agencies’ implementing final rules establish a capital floor so that organizations subject to the Advanced Approaches Rules may not hold less capital than would be required using the generally applicable risk-based and
leverage capital calculations. Our current analysis suggests that our risk-weighted assets will increase under the Advanced Approaches framework, and therefore we would need to hold more regulatory capital in order to maintain a given capital ratio.
We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new rules with respect to the institutions that are subject to them and assess the potential impact to us.







Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules

In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) released proposals for additional capital and liquidity
requirements, which subsequently have been clarified and amended (“Basel III”). In September 2010, the Basel Committee announced a package of reforms that included detailed capital ratios and capital conservation buffers, subject to
transition periods through 2018. In December 2010, the Basel Committee published a final framework on capital and liquidity, consistent in large part with the prior proposals. In November 2011, the Basel Committee adopted a framework that would
require additional Tier 1 common capital for systemically important institutions. This surcharge would vary based on the firm’s systemic importance as determined using five criteria (size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability,
cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity). As noted below, Federal Banking Agencies have stated that they intend to implement this surcharge, although the extent to which it would apply to us is unclear. In January 2014, the Basel Committee made
changes to the leverage ratio rules to account for differences in national accounting frameworks.

The Federal Banking Agencies issued a rule in July 2013
implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee as well as certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions (“Final Rule”). The Final Rule increases the minimum capital that we and other institutions are
required to hold.

Prior to being revised in the Final Rule, the minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies followed
Basel I and the Advanced Approaches for applicable banks and bank holding companies. See “Advanced Approaches Rules,” above. The Final Rule modified both Basel I and the Advanced Approaches (as modified, referred to respectively as
“Basel III Standardized” and the “Basel III Advanced Approaches”).

The Final Rule increases the general risk-based and leverage
capital requirements; significantly revises the definition of regulatory capital, including by eliminating certain items that constituted regulatory capital; establishes a minimum Tier 1 common equity requirement; introduces a new capital
conservation buffer requirement; and (as noted below) updates the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums. For Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions like the Company and Banks, the Final Rule also
implements a supplementary leverage ratio that incorporates a broader set of exposures and a new countercyclical capital buffer requirement.

Specifically, the Final Rule establishes for bank holding companies and banks a new minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent, adopts a
leverage ratio of 4 percent (and removes the current 3 percent limited exception), and implements a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. It also contains a supplementary leverage ratio of 3 percent and a countercyclical capital buffer of up
to 2.5 percent (initially set to zero percent). Compliance with certain aspects of the Final Rule went into effect as of January 1, 2014 and other provisions will go into effect according to different start dates and phase-in periods.

Under the Final Rule, beginning on January 1, 2014, as a Basel III Advanced Approaches banking organization that has yet to enter or exit parallel run,
we must use Basel III Standardized for calculating our regulatory capital, including as used in our capital ratios, subject to transition periods. In 2014, however, we will continue to use Basel I for calculating our risk-weighted assets in our
regulatory capital ratios. Beginning on January 1, 2015, we must use Basel III Standardized for calculating our risk-weighted assets in our regulatory capital ratios.

For information regarding our expectations of how the Final Rule impacts us, see “MD&A—Capital Management.” It remains unclear whether and
how the Federal Banking Agencies will account for changes in the leverage ratio recently published by the Basel Committee.

The Basel Committee also
published a liquidity framework in December 2010, which was subsequently amended in January 2013 and January 2014. The liquidity framework includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision,







each subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements. One standard promotes short-term resilience by requiring sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a stress scenario
lasting for 30 days. This standard, the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is included in the amended liquidity framework. The other standard promotes longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period,
based on the liquidity characteristics of assets and activities. This standard remains under development by the Basel Committee. We expect that minimum liquidity requirements for us and other institutions will increase as a result of the Basel III
liquidity framework, though rules implementing the Basel III liquidity framework have not yet been finalized by the Federal Banking Agencies.

We will continue to monitor regulators” implementation of the new capital and liquidity rules and assess the potential impact to us.

Market Risk Capital Rule

A market risk capital
rule, which the Federal Banking Agencies amended in August 2012, supplements both the general risk-based capital rules and the Basel III Advanced Approaches Rules by requiring institutions subject to the rule to adjust their risk-based capital
ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading activities. The rule applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to the lesser of (i) 10 percent or more of total assets or (ii) $1 billion or more.
Currently, we are not subject to this rule but may become subject to it in the future.

FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action

In general, the FDICIA subjects banks to significantly increased regulation and supervision. Among other things, the FDICIA requires Federal Banking Agencies
to take “prompt corrective action” for banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and
critically undercapitalized. Under applicable regulations, a bank is considered to be well capitalized if it maintains a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio of at least 5 percent and is not subject to any supervisory agreement, order or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. A bank is considered to be adequately capitalized if it maintains
a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4 percent (3 percent for certain highly rated institutions), and does not otherwise meet the
definition of well capitalized. The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to adequately-capitalized institutions. The capital categories are determined solely for purposes of
applying the FDICIA’s prompt corrective action provisions, and such capital categories







may not constitute an accurate representation of the Banks’ overall financial condition or prospects. As of December 31, 2013, each of the Banks met the requirements for a
well-capitalized institution.

As noted above, the Final Rule updates the prompt corrective action framework to reflect new, higher regulatory capital
minimums. This rule adjusts the definitions of well capitalized and adequately capitalized. For an insured depository institution to be well capitalized, it must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10 percent or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio
of 8 percent or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5 percent or more; and a leverage ratio of 5 percent or more. An adequately-capitalized depository institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 8 percent or more; a
Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent or more; a leverage ratio of 4 percent or more; and, for Advanced Approaches institutions, a supplementary leverage ratio, which incorporates a broader
set of exposures, of 3 percent or more. The revised prompt corrective action requirements become effective on January 1, 2015, other than the supplementary leverage ratio, which becomes effective on January 1, 2018.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDICIA requires regulators to establish certain
non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to
meet such standards.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act

With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, because we are a bank holding company with consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater (a “covered
company”), we are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards, including requirements that may be recommended by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) and implemented by the Federal Reserve and other
regulators. As a result, we are becoming subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable for smaller institutions. The Council also may issue recommendations to the Federal Reserve or other primary financial regulatory
agency to apply new or heightened standards to risky financial activities or practices.

In 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized rules requiring us to
implement resolution planning for orderly resolution in the event the Company faces material financial distress or failure. The FDIC has issued similar rules regarding resolution planning applicable to the Banks. In addition, in October 2012, the
Federal Reserve issued a rule that implements the requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act that the Federal Reserve conduct annual stress tests on the capacity of our capital to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. The stress test rule
also implements the requirement that we conduct our own semiannual stress tests and requires us to publish the results of the stress tests on our website or other public forum. The OCC finalized a similar stress test rule in October 2012, to
implement the requirement that each of the Banks conduct annual stress tests.

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve released proposed rules beginning to
implement the enhanced prudential standards. The Federal Reserve finalized certain of the proposed rules on February 18, 2014 (“Enhanced Standards Rule”). The Enhanced Standards Rule, however, did not finalize the proposed
single-counterparty credit limits or early remediation framework. Under the Enhanced Standards Rule, we must meet liquidity risk management standards, conduct internal liquidity stress tests, and maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets, in
each case, consistent with the requirements of the rule.

The rule also requires that we establish an enterprise-wide risk management framework that
includes a risk committee and a chief risk officer. Although not mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, the OCC recently issued a similar proposal that applies heightened standards for risk management to large institutions subject to its supervision,
including the Banks.

In addition, the Enhanced Standards Rule requires that we comply with, and hold capital commensurate with the requirements of, any
regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve relating to capital planning and stress tests. The Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule is discussed in “Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds” below.







We are required to comply with the new requirements of the Enhanced Standards Rule beginning on January 1, 2015.
As the Enhanced Standards Rule was recently issued, we continue to conduct an assessment of the expected impact of the rule.

In addition to the
provisions described throughout this section, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers and affiliate transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions
related to corporate governance and executive compensation and new fees and assessments, among others.

The federal agencies have significant discretion
in drafting the implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules may result in modifications to our business models and organizational structure, and may subject us to escalating costs associated with any such changes.

However, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or, in some cases, years. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires various
studies and reports to be delivered to Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action.

Investment in the Company and the
Banks

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible
for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval.

Each of the Banks is an “insured depository institution” within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act. Consequently, federal law and
regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company
acquires more than 25 percent of any class of our voting stock. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires more than 10 percent of any class of voting stock and is subject to any of a number of specified “control
factors” as set forth in the applicable regulations and policies.

Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter
13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (the “Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or
entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its holding company without making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions.

Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds

In
November 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized capital planning rules applicable to large bank holding companies like us (commonly referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or “CCAR”). Under the rules, a bank holding company
with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis that contains a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning
horizon beginning with the fourth quarter of the calendar year prior to the submission of the capital plan (“CCAR cycle”). The bank holding company may take the capital actions in its capital plan if the Federal Reserve provides a
nonobjection to the plan. The Federal Reserve’s objection or nonobjection applies specifically to capital actions during the four quarters beginning with the second quarter of the second calendar year in the planning horizon. For the CCAR cycle
under which capital plan submissions were due by January 6, 2014 (“2014 CCAR cycle”), the Federal Reserve’s objection or nonobjection will apply to planned capital actions from the second quarter of 2014 through the first quarter
of 2015.

The purpose of the rules is to ensure that large bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for
their unique risks and capital needs to continue operations through times of economic and financial stress. As part of its evaluation of a capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the







comprehensiveness of the plan, the reasonableness of assumptions and analysis and methodologies used to assess capital adequacy and the ability of the bank holding company to maintain capital
above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a planning horizon of at least nine quarters. On September 24, 2013, the Federal
Reserve released an interim final rule that incorporated Basel III capital rules into CCAR. For the first time, the 2014 CCAR cycle will require us to meet Basel III Standardized capital requirements, with appropriate phase-in provisions applicable
to Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions during the CCAR planning horizon, under the supervisory severely adverse stress scenario, in addition to the capital plan rule’s Tier 1 common ratio using Basel I definitions.

Traditionally, dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our stock, make
payments on corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include
minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured
depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured
depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Each of CONA and COBNA,
as an insured depository institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed on March 31,
2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act permits the FDIC to set a Designated Reserve
Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

Prior to passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC had established a plan to restore the DIF in the face of recent insurance losses and future loss projections,
which resulted in several rules that generally increased deposit insurance rates and purported to improve risk differentiation so that riskier institutions bear a greater share of insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act reformed the management of the
DIF in several ways: raised the minimum DRR to 1.35 percent (from the former minimum of 1.15 percent) and removed the upper limit on the DRR; required that the reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15 percent by
the end of 2016); required that in setting assessments, the FDIC must offset the effect of meeting the increased reserve ratio on small insured depository institutions; and eliminated the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends from the DIF when the
reserve ratio reaches certain levels. The FDIC has set the DRR at 2 percent and, in lieu of dividends, has established progressively lower assessment rate schedules as the reserve ratio meets certain trigger levels. The Dodd-Frank Act also required
the FDIC to change the deposit insurance assessment base from deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. In February 2011, the FDIC finalized rules to implement this change that significantly modified how deposit
insurance assessment rates are calculated for those banks with assets of $10 billion or greater.

Source of Strength and Liability for
Commonly-Controlled Institutions

Under the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and
managerial strength to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of strength doctrine, directing the Federal Reserve to require bank holding companies to serve as a source of
financial strength to its subsidiary banks.







Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement
Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC
assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act
provides the FDIC with liquidation authority that may be used to liquidate non-bank financial companies and bank holding companies if the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President and based on the recommendation of the Federal Reserve
and another federal agency, determines that doing so is necessary, among other criteria, to mitigate serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must liquidate the company
in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard. The costs of a liquidation of a financial company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments
on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future.

Regulation of International Business by Non-U.S. Authorities

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom and Canada.

United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, COBNA
operates through Capital One (Europe) plc, which was established in 2000 and is an authorized payment institution regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) under the Payment Services Regulations 2009. COEP’s indirect
parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K.

Over the past few years, the U.K. government has made significant changes to the framework of financial services regulation. As part of these changes, in
April 2013, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) was split into a new Prudential Regulatory Authority (“PRA”) and the FCA, with the FCA, rather than the PRA, regulating COEP. In April 2014, the FCA will take over regulation
of the U.K. consumer credit regime from the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”). As a result of this change, the FCA will also regulate COEP’s credit card lending activities.

During 2013, the FCA published several consultation papers setting forth its proposals to regulate consumer credit. Although the FCA intends to replicate the
existing consumer credit regime through the introduction of a Consumer Credit Handbook, it is apparent from the draft version that some minor changes to requirements have been made. We expect the FCA to finalize the Consumer Credit Handbook in
February 2014, and for it to become effective in April 2014.

Cross-border interchange fees continue to be under scrutiny from the European Commission
(the “EC”) and the OFT. In May 2012, the EC held that MasterCard’s “interchange” fees were anticompetitive, and the General Court upheld this decision. The General Court held that there were no merchant or consumer benefits
that could justify the restriction on competition implied by the fee. On July 4, 2013, the European Court of Justice (“ECJ”) heard MasterCard’s appeal of this decision. The ECJ’s judgment is expected in the first quarter of
2014. In addition, the EC issued a statement against Visa to express its view that interchange fees are anticompetitive. The OFT has confirmed its own investigation will remain on hold until after the outcome of MasterCard’s appeal. Further, on
July 24, 2013, the EC published the proposed new Interchange Regulations which will cap debit interchange fees at 0.2% and credit interchange fees at 0.3%, but the cap is not expected to be effective until at least 2015.







The EC has also issued a draft regulation which will replace the Data Protection Act 1998. This will be directly
effective without the need for additional U.K. legislation. The date on which the regulation will come into force has not yet been confirmed, but it is expected to be placed before the European Parliament in spring 2014. There will likely be a
two-year grace period to work towards compliance with the regulation; however, a shorter implementation period may be specified by the European Parliament. Key proposed changes that we expect would impact COEP include:



•Requirement on companies to notify any breach of the regulations to the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”) and to individuals whose data has been affected or compromised as a result of the breach;



•Increased powers, including the ability to assess fines, given to the ICO;



•Requirement to conduct a Privacy Impact Assessment for all areas of the business, including any changes to systems;



•Mandatory appointment of a data protection officer who must act independently and autonomously at all times; and



•Widening of the definition of personal data.

Canada

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (the “Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its Credit
Card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada
(“OSFI”). Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is
subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws, including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.

In 2013, there were three new, significant regulatory developments that affect credit cards issued by federally regulated financial institutions in Canada.
These amendments could increase our operational and compliance costs and affect the types and terms of products that we offer in Canada.

In February
2013, amendments were made (the “Amending Regulations”) to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Regulations under the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act. The Amending Regulations
prescribe additional requirements on financial institutions and intermediaries in relation to customer identification, customer monitoring, enhanced due diligence and ongoing scrutiny of customers’ activities. The Amending Regulations came into
force on February 1, 2014.







Canada’s new anti-spam legislation, an act to promote the efficiency and adaptability of the Canadian
economy by regulating certain activities that discourage reliance on electronic means of carrying out commercial activities, and to amend the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission Act, the Competition Act, the Personal
Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and the Telecommunications Act, also known as “CASL” (the “Act”) came into force in December 2013. The Act prohibits (subject to limited exceptions) the sending of a commercial
electronic message unless the person to whom the message is sent has consented to receiving it and the message complies with prescribed form and content requirements. The Act also prohibits the installation of computer programs or software on
another person’s computer system without the express consent of the owner or authorized user of that computer system. The new rules surrounding the sending of commercial electronic messages will come into force on July 1, 2014. Provisions
of the Act related to the unsolicited installation of computer programs or software will come into force on July 1, 2015, and the provisions providing for a private right of action for a contravention of the Act will come into force on
July 1, 2017.





COMPETITION



Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and
non-bank providers of financial services.

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and
MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent,
issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit and other product features.

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national and state banks and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans,
mortgages and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide
loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding
companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as
further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In
addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors.

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price.
Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our professional and other associates and on our reputation. In the current
environment, customers are generally attracted to depository institutions that are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding.

We believe that
we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the
nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, please refer to “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors.”









EMPLOYEES



A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain a highly capable staff. We had 41,951 employees, whom we refer to as “associates,” as of
December 31, 2013. None of our associates are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our associate relations to be satisfactory.





ADDITIONAL INFORMATION



Geographic Diversity

Our consumer loan portfolios, including credit cards, are diversified across the United States with modest concentration in California, Texas, New York,
Florida, and Illinois. We also have credit card loans in the U.K. and Canada. Our commercial loan portfolio is aligned to our branch footprint with concentrated in New York, Texas, Louisiana and New Jersey with some broader diversification across
the United States driven by our specialty business. See “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile” and “Note 4—Loans” for additional information.

Technology/Systems

We leverage information technology
to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems to support
complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and diversified products. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts
to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third party
outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Over time, we have increasingly relied on third party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships
include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. (“TSYS”) for processing services for our North American and United Kingdom portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts, Fidelity Information Services
(“FIS”) for the Capital One banking systems and IBM Corporation for management of our North American data centers.

To protect our systems and
technologies, we employ security, backup and recovery systems and generally require the same of our third-party service providers. In addition, we perform, or cause to be performed, a variety of vulnerability and penetration testing on the
platforms, systems and applications used to provide our products and services in an effort to ensure that any attacks on these platforms, systems and applications are unlikely to succeed. Despite these controls, Capital One, along with several other
U.S. financial services providers, was targeted on several occasions with distributed denial-of-service (“DDOS”) attacks from sophisticated third parties that succeeded, on a few occasions, in temporarily limiting our ability to service
customers through online platforms.

Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights,
trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation, and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may
be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or
proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our







industry. The ability of our competitors and other third parties to obtain such patents may adversely affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase
our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results.





FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS



From time to time, we have made and will make
forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, returns, expenses, capital measures, accruals for claims in litigation and for
other claims against us; earnings per share or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; the projected impact and benefits of the acquisitions of ING Direct and 2012
U.S. card acquisitions (collectively, the “Acquisitions”); and the assumptions that underlie these matters.

To the extent that any such
information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:



•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada or our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, consumer income and confidence, spending and savings that
may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;



•an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment);



•financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder and regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards,
including Basel-related initiatives and potential changes to financial accounting and reporting standards;



•the possibility that we may not fully realize the projected cost savings and other projected benefits of the Acquisitions;



•difficulties and delays in integrating the assets and businesses acquired in the Acquisitions;



•business disruption following the Acquisitions;



•diversion of management time on issues related to the Acquisitions, including integration of the assets and businesses acquired;



•reputational risks and the reaction of customers and counterparties to the Acquisitions;



•disruptions relating to the Acquisitions negatively impacting our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers;



•changes in asset quality and credit risk as a result of the Acquisitions;



•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation matter involving us;



•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;



•increases or decreases in interest rates;



•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth;



•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;







•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount
of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances;



•the level of future repurchase or indemnification requests we may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage loans relating to such requests, the success rates of claimants against us, any developments in
litigation and the actual recoveries we may make on any collateral relating to claims against us;



•the amount and rate of deposit growth;



•changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial condition;



•any significant disruption in our operations or technology platform;



•our ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business;



•our ability to control costs;



•the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas;



•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;



•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting our response rates and consumer payments;



•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the internet affecting the ability of our customers to access their accounts and conduct banking transactions;



•our ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services;



•changes in the labor and employment markets;



•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees or business partners;



•competition from providers of products and services that compete with our businesses; and



•other risk factors listed from time to time in reports that we file with the SEC.

Any forward-looking
statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You
should carefully consider the factors discussed above in evaluating these forward-looking statements. For additional information on factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set
forth under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







