Item 1.Business.

Overview

Capital One Financial Corporation (the “Corporation”) is one of the largest financial institutions in the United
States, incorporated in Delaware on July 21, 1994. The Corporation’s principal subsidiaries include Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”) which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending
products, and deposit products; and Capital One, National Association (“CONA”) which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. The Corporation and its
subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the “Company.” Unless indicated otherwise, the terms “Corporation” “Capital One” “we” “us” and “our” refer to the Corporation and its
consolidated subsidiaries.

As of December 31, 2009, we had $115.8 billion in deposits and $136.8 billion in managed
loans outstanding. We are the fourth largest issuer of Visa®(“Visa”) and MasterCard®(“MasterCard”) credit cards in the United States based on managed credit card loans outstanding, and
we are the eighth largest depository institution in the United States based on deposits.

We offer our products throughout the United States.
We also offer our products outside of the United States principally through Capital One Bank (Europe) plc, an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (the “U.K. Bank”), and through a branch of COBNA in
Canada. Our U.K. Bank has authority, among other things, to accept deposits and provide credit card and installment loans. Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COF and as of January 31, 2010, the Company’s common stock was held by
16,955 shareholders. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 (telephone number (703) 720-1000). The Corporation maintains a website atwww.capitalone.com. Documents available on our
website include (i) Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; (ii) the Corporation’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) charters for the Audit and Risk, Compensation, Finance and Trust Oversight, and
Governance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents are also available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy. In addition, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing such material to the SEC.

Business Description

Capital One is one of the largest financial institutions in the United States. We focus on consumer and commercial lending and deposit taking. Our principal business segments are Credit Card, Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking. For
further discussion of our segments, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Reportable Segment Summary for Continuing Operations” and “Note 5 –
Segments”.

Credit Card Segment.The credit card segment includes the Company’s domestic consumer and small business card
lending, domestic national small business lending, national closed end installment lending and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.

Commercial Banking Segment. Commercial Banking includes the Company’s lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and middle market customers. The
Commercial segment also includes the financial results of a national portfolio of small ticket commercial real estate loans that are in run-off mode.

Consumer Banking Segment.Consumer Banking includes the Company’s branch based lending and deposit gathering activities for small business customers as well as its branch based consumer deposit gathering and lending activities,
national deposit gathering, national automobile lending, consumer mortgage lending and servicing activities.

Chevy Chase Bank Acquisition

On February 27, 2009, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., (“Chevy Chase
Bank”), one of the largest retail depository institutions in the Washington DC region, in exchange for Capital One common stock and cash with a total value of $475.9 million. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, Chevy Chase Bank
common shareholders received $445 million in cash and 2.56 million shares of Capital One common stock. The acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank greatly expanded our banking footprint in one of the strongest markets in the country.

Geographic Diversity

Our consumer loan portfolios, including credit cards, are diversified across the United States with modest concentration in New York, New Jersey, Louisiana, and Texas. We also have credit card loans in the U.K. and Canada. Our commercial
loans are concentrated in







New York, New Jersey, Louisiana and Texas. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of Operations – Loans Held for Investment”,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of Operations – Credit Concentration” and “Note 24—Significant Concentration of Credit Risk” for further details.

Enterprise Risk Management

Capital One’s policy is to identify, assess, and mitigate risks that affect or have the potential to affect our business, to target financial returns commensurate with the Company’s risk appetite, and to avoid excessive
risk-taking. We follow three key principles related to this policy.



1.Individual businesses take and manage risk in pursuit of strategic, financial, and other business objectives



2.Independent risk management organizations support individual businesses by providing risk management tools and policies, and by aggregating risks; in some cases, risks
are managed centrally



3.The Board of Directors and top management review our aggregate risk position and establish the risk appetite

Our approach is reflected in four critical risk management practices of particular importance in today’s environment.

First, we recognize liquidity risk as among the critical risks facing financial institutions today. We seek to mitigate this risk strategically and
tactically. From a strategic perspective, we have acquired and built deposit gathering businesses and significantly reduced our loan to deposit ratio. From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a very large liquidity reserve comprising cash,
high-quality, unencumbered securities, and committed collateralized credit lines and conduit facilities.

Second, we recognize that credit
issues are a frequent cause of financial institution stress and that we are exposed to cyclical changes in credit quality. Consequently, we try to ensure our credit portfolio is resilient to economic downturns. Our most important tool is sound
underwriting, using what we deem to be conservative assumptions. In unsecured consumer loan underwriting, we assume that loans will be subject to an environment in which losses are significantly higher than those prevailing at the time of
underwriting. In commercial underwriting, we insist on strong cash flow, strong collateral, and strong covenants and guarantees. In addition to conservative underwriting, we aggressively monitor our portfolio and aggressively collect or work out
distressed loans.

Third, we recognize that reputational risk is of particular concern in today’s turbulent environment. Consequently,
our CEO and executive team manage both tactical and strategic reputation issues and build our relationships with the government, media, and other constituencies to help strengthen the reputations of both Capital One and our industry. This includes
taking public positions in support of better consumer practices in our industry and, where possible, unilaterally implementing those practices in our business.

Finally, we recognize that maintaining appropriate capital levels is a concern in today’s environment. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of
Operations – Capital,” for further information regarding capital.

Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities

The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing Capital One’s overall risk framework; approving and overseeing execution of the Enterprise Risk
Management Policy and key risk category policies; establishing the Company’s risk appetite; and regularly reviewing Capital One’s risk profile.

The Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the CEO, is responsible for overseeing Capital One’s risk management program and driving appropriate action to resolve any weaknesses. The risk management
program begins with a set of policies and risk appetites approved by the Board that are implemented through a system of risk committees and senior executive risk stewards. The company has established risk committees at both the corporate and
divisional level to identify and manage risk. In addition, we have assigned a senior executive expert to each of eight risk categories (the risk stewards). These executive risk stewards work with the Chief Risk Officer and the risk committees to
ensure that risks are identified and given appropriate priority and attention. The Chief Risk Officer aggregates the results of these processes to assemble a view of the company’s risk profile. Both management and the Board regularly review the
risk profile.

Risk Management and Control Framework

Capital One uses a consistent framework to manage risk. The framework applies at all levels, from the development of the Enterprise Risk Management Program itself to the tactical operations of the
front-line business team. The framework has six key elements:



1.Objective Setting;



2.Risk Assessment;



3.Control Activities;



4.Communication and Information;







5.Program Monitoring; and



6.Organization and Culture.

Objective
Settingis at the beginning of our risk management approach. We set strategic, financial, operational, and other objectives during our strategic and annual planning processes and throughout the year. These objectives cascade through the
organization to individual teams of associates.

Risk Assessmentis the process of identifying risks to our objectives,
evaluating the impact of those risks and choosing a response. Responses include avoidance, mitigation, or acceptance. Risk responses are guided by our established risk appetite. In certain risk categories, risk assessment is largely conducted by
central risk groups or jointly between business areas and central groups (market, liquidity, legal, credit, compliance). In other risk categories, risk assessment is primarily the responsibility of business areas with more limited central support
(strategic, operational, reputation).

Control Activitiesare the day-to-day backbone of our Enterprise Risk Management Program.
Controls provide reasonable assurance that financial accounting and reporting, legal, regulatory, and business requirements are met, and identified risks are being mitigated, avoided, or accepted according to our risk appetite. We have practices in
place to ensure key controls are established, evaluated, and effective in preventing a breakdown. Control activities include the monitoring of adherence to current requirements, regular reporting to management, and regular reviews and sign-offs.
They also include the resolution of regulatory and audit findings and issues and the procedures that trigger objective setting and risk assessments when new business opportunities are evaluated or business hierarchy changes occur.

Communication and Informationmust provide a solid infrastructure to support the objective setting, risk assessment, and control activities
described above. We have established policies for each risk category which define the specific reports to be used and the communication infrastructure. Robust risk management requires well-functioning communication channels to inform associates of
their responsibilities, alert them to issues or changes that might affect their activities, and to enable an open flow of information up, down, and across the company.

Program Monitoringis critical to the Enterprise Risk Management Program itself because it assesses the accuracy, sufficiency, and effectiveness of current objectives, risk assessments,
controls, ownership, communication, and management support. Where deficiencies are discovered, the Enterprise Risk Management Program must be updated to resolve the deficiencies in a timely manner. Clear accountability must also be defined when
resolving deficiencies to ensure the desired outcome is achieved. Risk management programs are monitored at every level; from the overall Enterprise Risk Management Program to the individual risk management activities in each business area.

OurOrganization and Culturepromote risk management as a key factor in making important business decisions. An effective risk
management culture starts with a well-defined risk management philosophy. It requires established risk management objectives that align to business objectives and make targeted risk management activities part of ongoing business management
activities.

We have a corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) (available on the Corporate Governance page of our
website at www.capitalone.com/about) under which each associate is obligated to behave with integrity in dealing with customers and business partners and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We disclose any waivers to the Code on our
website. We also have an associate performance management process that emphasizes achieving business results while ensuring integrity, compliance, and sound business management. Our risk management culture is also encouraged through frequent
direction and communications from the Board of Directors, senior leadership, corporate and departmental risk management policies, risk management and compliance training programs and on-going risk assessment activities in the business areas.

Risk Appetite

Capital One
organizes its Enterprise Risk Management Program around eight risk categories. The risk categories enable us to efficiently aggregate risks, provide a mechanism to discuss risk appetite, and facilitate the assignment of expert risk resources to
support our business activities. We customize specific risk objectives and control methodologies to each risk category; they share, at the highest level, a common approach to describing and measuring risk appetite. Risk appetites are approved by the
Board of Directors and are used both to monitor the company’s evolving risk position and to guide strategic and tactical decision making.

Risk Categories

Capital One’s risk management program is organized around eight risk categories. They are:

Liquidity Risk:is the risk that future financial obligations are not met or future asset growth cannot occur because of an inability to
obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time. The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for liquidity risk.







Liquidity strength is assessed through balance sheet metrics, and stress testing is used to ensure that Capital One can withstand significant degradation in the funding markets (particularly in
the wholesale funding markets). We regularly evaluate our liquidity position under various liquidity stress scenarios with management’s Asset/Liability Management Committee and the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee of the Board, providing
recommendations for any necessary actions to ensure our liquidity risk exposure is well managed. Management reports liquidity metrics to the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee no less than quarterly. Breaches in liquidity policy limits are
reported to the Treasurer as soon as they are identified and to the Asset/Liability Management Committee at the next regularly scheduled committee meeting, unless said breach activates the Liquidity Contingency Plan. Breaches are also reported to
the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee no later than the next regularly scheduled meeting. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our policies and supporting procedures.

Credit Risk:is the risk of loss from a borrower’s failure to meet the terms of any contract or failure to otherwise perform as agreed.
There are four primary sources of credit risk: (1) changing economic conditions, which affect borrowers’ ability to pay and the value of any collateral; (2) a changing competitive environment, which affects customer debt loads,
borrowing patterns and loan terms; (3) our underwriting strategies and standards, which determine to whom we offer credit and on what terms; and (4) the quality of our internal controls, which establish a process to test that underwriting
conforms to our standards and identifies credit quality issues so we can act upon them in a timely manner. The Chief Risk Officer is the accountable executive for credit risk.

We have quantitative credit risk guidelines for each of our lines of business. We conduct portfolio and decision level monitoring and stress tests using economic and legislative stress scenarios. Credit
risk objectives are achieved by establishing a credit governance framework and by establishing policies, procedures, and controls for each step in the credit process. The Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Consumer and
Commercial Credit Officers, and Division Presidents have specific accountable roles in the management of credit risk. These include policy approval, creation of credit strategy, review of credit position, and delegation of authority. Our evolving
credit risk position and recommendations to address issues are reviewed by management’s Credit Policy Committee and the Board of Directors.

Reputation Risk:is the risk to market value, recruitment, and retention of talented associates and a loyal customer base due to the negative perceptions of Capital One’s internal and external stakeholders regarding
Capital One’s business strategies and activities. The Company’s General Counsel is the accountable executive for reputation risk.

Reputation risk is managed and owned by business areas in accordance with our Reputation Risk Policy. Each Division President is responsible for highlighting potential reputational issues and executing appropriate risk mitigation
activities. Our Corporate Affairs Department assists these executives in evaluating the reputation risk of new and existing business activities and is responsible for assessing and reporting our aggregate reputation risk and the state of Capital
One’s reputation with specific stakeholders, to the General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, and management’s Risk Management Committee.

Market Risk:is the risk that earnings or the economic value of equity will under-perform due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates (market rates), or other financial market asset prices. Our ability to manage
market risks contributes to our overall capital management. The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for market risk.

The
market risk positions of Capital One’s banking entities and the consolidated Company are calculated separately and in total, are compared to the pre-established limits, and are reported to management’s Asset/Liability Management Committee
and the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee of the Board no less than quarterly. Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments to actively manage market risk exposure. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our
policies and supporting procedures.

Strategic Risk:is the risk that Capital One fails to achieve short and long-term business
objectives because we fail to develop the products, capabilities, and competitive position necessary to attract consumers, compete with competitors and withstand market volatility. The result is a failure to deliver returns expected by stakeholders
(customers, associates, shareholders, investors, communities, and regulators). The Chief Executive Officer is the accountable executive for Capital One strategy.

The Chief Executive Officer develops an overall corporate strategy and leads alignment of the entire organization with this strategy through definition of strategic imperatives and top-down communication.
The Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives spend significant time throughout the entire company sharing the Company’s strategic imperatives to promote an understanding of our strategy and connect it to day-to-day associate
activities to enable effective execution. Division Presidents are accountable for defining business strategy within the context of the overall corporate level strategy and Strategic Imperatives. Business strategies are integrated into the Corporate
Strategic Plan and are reviewed and approved separately and together on an annual basis by the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors.

Operational Risk:is the risk of direct or indirect financial loss from failed or inadequate processes, associate capabilities or systems, or exposure to external events. The risk of financial loss associated with litigation
is also included under operational risk. The Chief Compliance Officer is the accountable executive for establishment of risk management standards and for governance and monitoring

of operational risk at a corporate level. Division Presidents have primary accountability for management of operational risk within their business areas.







While most operational risks are managed and controlled by business areas, the Operational Risk Management
Program establishes requirements and control processes that assure certain consistent practices in the management of operational risk, and provides transparency to the corporate operational risk profile. Our Operational Risk Management Program also
includes two primary additional functions. Operational Risk Reporting involves independent assessments of the control and sustainability of key business processes at a corporate and business area level, and such assessments are provided to the Chief
Risk Officer, management’s Risk Management Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. The Operational Risk Capital function, in conjunction with the corporate capital process managed by Global Finance, establishes necessary
operational risk capital levels to assure resiliency against extreme operational risk event scenarios.

Operational Risk results and trends
are reported to the Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.

Compliance Risk:is the risk of
financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost of mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance. Division Presidents are
the accountable executives for compliance risk and are responsible for building and maintaining compliance processes. With the Chief Compliance Officer, Division Presidents are jointly accountable for ensuring the Compliance Management Program
requirements are met for their division.

We ensure compliance by maintaining an effective Compliance Management Program consisting of sound
policies, systems, processes, and reports. The Compliance Management Program provides management with guidance, training, and monitoring to provide reasonable assurance of our compliance with internal and external compliance requirements.
Additionally, management and the Corporate Compliance department jointly and separately conduct on-going monitoring and assess the state of compliance. The assessment provides the basis for performance reporting to management and the Board, allows
business areas to determine if their compliance performance is acceptable, and confirms effective compliance controls are in place. Business areas embed compliance requirements and controls into their business policies, standards, processes and
procedures. They regularly monitor and report on the efficiency of their compliance controls. Corporate Compliance, jointly working with the business, defines and validates a standard compliance monitoring and reporting methodology. Compliance
results and trends are reported to management’s Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.

Legal
Risk:is the risk of material adverse impact due to: (i) new and changed laws and regulations; (ii) new interpretations of law; (iii) the drafting, interpretation and enforceability of contracts; (iv) adverse decisions or
consequences arising from litigation or regulatory scrutiny; (v) the establishment, management and governance of our legal entity structure; and (vi) the failure to seek or follow appropriate Legal counsel when needed. The company’s
General Counsel is the accountable executive for monitoring and controlling legal risk.

Technology / Systems

We leverage information technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our
customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development
of new and diversified products. Our commitment to managing risk and ensuring effective controls is built into all of our strategies. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to
reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third party
outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Over time, we have increasingly relied on third party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships
include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. (“TSYS”) for processing services for Capital One’s North American and United Kingdom portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts,
Fidelity National Information Services (“Fidelity”) for the Capital One banking systems, and IBM Corporation for management of our North American data centers.

The Card division has a program in place to address systems changes associated with the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”), including
the recent clarifications from the Federal Reserve. We are on track to meet all systems changes required by the first quarter of 2010.

We
also remain on target to complete the systems integration of Chevy Chase Bank in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, a multi-year effort is underway to build a scalable banking infrastructure.







Funding and Liquidity

A discussion of our funding programs and liquidity has been included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Funding.”

Competition

As a diversified financial institution that markets credit cards and consumer and commercial financial products and services, we face intense competition in
all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.

We compete with national and state banks for
deposits, commercial loans and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. We also compete with other financial services providers for loans, deposits, and other services and products. In addition,
we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer products and services that were typically banking products and services. In general, in the current economic environment, customers are attracted to depository institutions that
are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding.

We compete with international, national, regional and local
issuers of Visa®and MasterCard®credit cards, as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®and, to a
certain extent, debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit and other product features, and customer loyalty is often limited.

In our Auto Finance business, we face competition from banks and non-bank lenders who provide financing for dealer-originated loans.

We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and
services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks
related to our competitive environment, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors “We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets.”

Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our
intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of
our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent
misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors to obtain such patents
may adversely affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to
obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results.

Employees

A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain a highly capable staff. As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,000 employees,
whom we refer to as “associates,” and almost 2,900 of whom were formerly employees of Chevy Chase Bank. We view current associate relations to be satisfactory, and none of our associates is covered under a collective bargaining agreement.

Supervision and Regulation

General

The Company is a bank holding company (“BHC”) under
Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”) (12 U.S.C. § 1842) and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its capital adequacy standards and limitations on the Company’s
nonbanking activities. The Company is also subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board (the “Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to
banking as to be a proper incident thereto such as consumer lending and other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf
of the BHC or any of its affiliates. Impermissible activities for BHCs include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under Federal Reserve policy, the Corporation is expected to act as a source of
financial and managerial strength to any banks that it controls, including COBNA and CONA (the “Banks”), and to commit resources to support them.

On May 27, 2005, the Company became a “financial holding company” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act (the “GLBA”). The GLBA removed many of the
restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the non-bank companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature (including, for example,
insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities); incidental to financial activities; or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose
no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.







The Company’s election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the
depository institutions the Company controls meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. If the Company were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding
company status, it could, depending on which requirements it failed to meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions and/or be required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding
companies.

COBNA and CONA are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the
Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) up to applicable limits. In addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA’s international operations (discussed below), COBNA and CONA
are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the FDIC.

The Company is also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and, as such, is subject to periodic examination by Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. The Company also faces regulation in the
international jurisdictions in which it conducts business (see below under Regulation of International Business by Non – U.S. Authorities).

Regulation of Business Activities

The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under
various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “FCRA”), the CRA and the Service members Civil Relief Act, as well as under various state laws. Depending on the
underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order the Banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action
for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of the Banks to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws plus state sales finance laws also affect the ability of our
automobile financing business to collect outstanding balances.

New Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

On January 12, 2010, the Federal Reserve released a final rule under Regulation Z (“Truth in Lending”). This final rule incorporates the
provisions required to implement the Credit CARD Act by February 22, 2010 and the amendments to Truth in Lending under the December 2008 final rule. Now superseded, the Federal Reserve retracted its previous final rules issued to amend Truth in
Lending and AA.

Under a previous rulemaking which became effective on August 20, 2009, the Federal Reserve adopted requirements relating
to the provision of 45-day prior written notice for any significant changes to a credit card account, including, in some instances, a right to reject such changes. These provisions also adopted new statement delivery requirements. Capital One has
implemented the interim final rules for these provisions.

The Federal Reserve’s final rule implementing the provisions of the Credit
CARD Act that became effective on February 22, 2010, among other things:



•Restricts increases in the rates charged on pre-existing credit card balances;



•prevents “over-the-limit” fees unless a cardholder has agreed to receive over-the-limit protection, and limit the number of such fees that
can be charged for the same violation;



•Limits the amount of fees charged to credit card accounts with lower credit lines;



•Mandates delivery of periodic statements 21 days before the due date and before the end of any grace period;



•Requires that payments above the minimum payment be applied to balances with the highest interest rates first; and



•Prohibits the imposition of interest charges using the “two-cycle” billing method.

The final rule also retains the Federal Reserve’s previous disclosure requirements and other obligations for credit cards and other open-end loans.
Among other things, the provisions in the final rule will require extensive changes to disclosures for solicitations and applications, account opening, periodic statements, changes in terms, and convenience checks by July 1, 2010.

After this final rule, only two remaining provisions of the Credit CARD Act remain open for rulemaking. These provisions, effective on August 22,
2010, will ensure that the amount of any penalty fee or charge is “reasonable and proportional to the omission or violation” and may require issuers to reverse interest rates increased since January 1, 2009 on a rolling six-month
basis.







For a discussion of the risks posed to the Company as a result of these new regulations, please refer to
“Compliance With New and Existing Laws and Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges” under Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Dividends and Transfers of Funds

Traditionally dividends to the Company from its direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for the Company to pay dividends on its stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet its other
obligations. There are various federal and state law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to the Company through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements,
federal and state banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its
affiliates, as well as general federal and state regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository
institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards. However, we expect that the
Company may receive a material amount of its funding in the form of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries.

Capital
Adequacy

The Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a further discussion of the
capital adequacy guidelines, see Item 7 “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Section X. Capital” and “Note 23—Regulatory Matters”. The Banks were well capitalized
under these guidelines as of December 31, 2009.

Basel II

Implementation of the international accord on revised risk-based capital rules known as “Basel II” continues to progress. U.S. Federal banking regulators finalized the “Advanced”
version of Basel II in December 2007 and they issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the “Standardized” version in June 2008. In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released a proposal for additional
capital and liquidity requirements, though it is not clear how these proposals will impact current regulations. Neither the “Advanced” nor “Standardized” version is mandatory for the Company, but the Advanced version could
become so, due to growth in the Company’s reported assets. Alternatively, the Company might elect to comply with either the Advanced or Standardized versions of Basel II in the future. Application of the new capital rules could
require us to increase the minimum level of capital that we hold. Compliance might also require a material investment of resources. We will continue to closely monitor regulators’ implementation of the new rules with respect to the
large institutions that are subject to it and assess the potential impact to us.

Deposits and Deposit Insurance

Each of the Banks, as an insured depository institution, is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF,
the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed on March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in
accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act permits the FDIC to set a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed
an insurance premium and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

The FDIC has
established a plan to restore the DIF in the face of recent insurance losses and future loss projections. As such, in the past year, the FDIC has issued rules that generally increase deposit insurance rates and are expected to improve risk
differentiation so that riskier institutions bear a greater share of insurance premiums. As part of the restoration plan, the FDIC imposed a five basis point special assessment on a bank’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30,
2009. The FDIC recently increased annual assessment rates again by three basis points beginning 2011. The FDIC also recently issued a final rule that required banks to prepay on December 31, 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessment
for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010, 2011, and 2012. In connection with the rule, the Company has prepaid approximately $700 million, which is included within Other Assets.

On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”), which included the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”). The TAGP provides
unlimited deposit insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts (including accounts swept from a non-interest bearing transaction account into a non-interest bearing savings deposit account) and certain interest-bearing accounts
(negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts with interest rates of 0.5 percent or less and lawyers trust accounts) at FDIC-insured depository institutions. The TAGP was originally scheduled to expire on December 31, 2009, but was extended
through June 30, 2010 for those institutions that choose to participate. The Banks are participating in the TAGP extension. Extension assessment costs are an annualized 15 basis point fee on the balance of each covered account in excess of the
current FDIC insurance limit of $250,000.







The FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the
bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The
termination of deposit insurance for a bank could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its earnings.

Banks may accept brokered
deposits as part of their funding. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in Item 7 “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Section X. Capital”, only “well-capitalized” and “adequately-capitalized” institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions, however, must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC
before accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits from outside the institution’s
normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity.

Overdraft Protection

The Federal Reserve amended Regulation E on November 12, 2009, to limit the ability to assess overdraft fees for paying ATM and one-time debit card
transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer opts into such payment of overdrafts. The new rule does not apply to overdraft services with respect to checks, ACH transactions, or recurring debit card transactions, or to
the payment of overdrafts pursuant to a line of credit or a service that transfers funds from another account. We are required to provide to customers written notice describing our overdraft service, fees imposed, and other information, and to
provide customers with a reasonable opportunity to opt in to the service. Before we may assess fees for paying discretionary overdrafts, a customer must affirmatively opt in, which could negatively impact our deposit business revenue.

Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be
liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly
controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

FFIEC Account Management Guidance

On January 8, 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) released Account Management and Loss Allowance Guidance
(the “Guidance”). The Guidance applies to all credit lending of regulated financial institutions and generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their lending programs, including line assignments, over-limit
practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the accounting methodology used for various assets and income items related to loans.

We believe that our account management and loss allowance practices are prudent and appropriate and, therefore, consistent with the Guidance. We caution, however, the Guidance provides wide discretion to
bank regulatory agencies in the application of the Guidance to any particular institution and its account management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the Guidance, bank examiners could require changes in our account management or
loss allowance practices in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.

Privacy and Fair Credit Reporting







Under Section 501(b) of the GLBA, among other sources of statutory authority, including state law, the
Banks and the Company are required to observe various data security-related requirements, including establishing information security and data security breach response programs and properly authenticating customers before processing or enabling
certain types of transactions or interactions. The failure to observe any one or more of these requirements could subject the Banks or the Company to enforcement action or litigation.

Like other lending institutions, the Banks utilize credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the FCRA on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit
reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”), which was enacted by Congress and signed into law in December 2003,
extends the federal preemption of the FCRA permanently, although the law authorizes states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the FACT Act. If financial institutions and credit
bureaus fail to alleviate the costs and consumer frustration associated with the growing crime of identity theft, financial institutions could face increased legislative/regulatory and litigation risks.

Investment in the Company and the Banks

Non-Bank
Activities

The Company’s non-bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state
authorities. Insurance agency subsidiaries are regulated by state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which they operate. Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that is regulated by the New York State Insurance Department
in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates. Capital One Agency LLC provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients. Chevy Chase Insurance Agency, Inc.
is a licensed insurance agency that is regulated by the Maryland State Insurance Administration in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates. The Company plans to merge Chevy Chase Insurance
Agency, Inc. with and into Capital One Agency LLC in 2010.

Capital One Investment Services LLC, Capital One Southcoast Capital, Inc., and
Chevy Chase Securities, Inc. are registered broker-dealers regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among other things, net
capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers
and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers
are also subject to other regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping
and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The Company plans to merge Chevy Chase Securities, Inc. with and into Capital One Investment Services LLC in 2010.

Capital One Asset Management LLC, Capital One Financial Advisors LLC and Chevy Chase Securities, Inc. are registered investment advisers regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One
Asset Management provides investment advice to institutions, foundations and endowments, and high net worth individuals. Chevy Chase Securities, Inc. provides investment advice to institutions, foundations and endowments, and high net worth
individuals, as well as being a registered broker-dealer as described above. The Company plans to transfer the investment advisory services and licenses associated with Chevy Chase Securities, Inc. to Capital One Financial Advisors, LLC in 2010.







USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement
mechanisms for the U.S. government, including due diligence requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions,
regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; reporting requirements applicable to the receipt of coins and currency of more than $10,000 in nonfinancial trades or businesses; and more
broadly applicable suspicious activity reporting requirements.

The Department of Treasury in consultation with the Federal Reserve and other
federal financial institution regulators has promulgated rules and regulations implementing the Patriot Act that prohibit correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks at U.S. financial institutions; require financial institutions to maintain
certain records relating to correspondent accounts for foreign banks; require financial institutions to produce certain records upon request of the appropriate federal banking agency; require due diligence with respect to private banking and
correspondent banking accounts; facilitate information sharing between government and financial institutions; require verification of customer identification; and require financial institutions to have an anti-money laundering program in place.

Interstate Taxation

Several states have passed legislation which attempts to tax the income from interstate financial activities, including credit cards, derived from accounts held by local state residents. The Company has accounted for this matter
applying the recognition and measurement criteria of FASB Interpretation No. 48,Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,(“ASC 740-10/FIN 48”).

Legislation

Preamble

The information contained in this section is current as of February 19, 2010.

Credit Card

In May 2009, the President
signed the Credit CARD Act into law. Different provisions of this legislation become effective on February 22, 2010 and August 22, 2010. For further information on the Credit CARD Act, see “Supervision and Regulation – New
Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities.”

The Credit CARD Act also requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a
study on interchange fees. The GAO released their report, “Credit Cards: Rising Interchange Fees Have Increased Costs for Merchants, but Options for Reducing Fees Pose Challenges” on November 19, 2009.

In 2009, legislation to regulate interchange fees was also introduced in the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate. House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers (D-MI)
and Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA) have introduced legislation in the U.S. House and Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) has introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate that provides an antitrust exemption to allow merchants to collectively bargain with the
networks and the banks regarding the rates (including merchant discount) and terms (including rules) for payment card acceptance. The Senate bill also includes a three judge panel who would determine the rates and terms if an agreement is not
reached under the antitrust exemption. This legislation is under the jurisdiction of the Judiciary Committees. It is expected that attempts to regulate interchange fees will continue to be raised at the state level as well.

In addition, Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) has also introduced a bill that attempts to change many of the fundamental rules of the networks and focuses on:
(i) honoring all cards: (ii) minimum/maximum transaction amounts; and (iii) premium card pricing, among other issues. To date, a companion bill has not been introduced in the Senate. A legislative hearing was held on October 8,
2009 in the House Financial Services Committee; however, no additional action is currently scheduled.

Financial Regulatory Reform

In June 2009, the Treasury Department released the Administration’s proposal for Regulatory Reform. This proposal overhauls the financial
regulatory structure in several significant respects. Among other changes, the proposal would give authority to the Federal Reserve Board to serve as the nation’s financial services systemic risk regulator, with new enhanced scrutiny over
financial institutions that are deemed “too big to fail.”

The Administration’s proposal would also establish a Consumer
Financial Protection Agency (CFPA), a new government agency with sole rule writing authority for consumer financial protection statutes. As proposed, the CFPA’s authority would cover all consumer financial products including any loan, deposit
account or other financial product. The proposal would also give states the authority to enforce federal laws regardless of a bank’s charter, and it would abolish federal preemption of conflicting state consumer protection laws, requiring
national banks to meet up to 50 separate sets of standards.







In January 2010, the President also proposed implementing “Volcker Rule” limitations that would
place new restrictions on the size and scope of banks and other financial institutions. Specifically, no bank would be permitted to “own, invest in or sponsor a hedge fund or a private equity fund, or proprietary trading operations unrelated to
serving customers for its own profit” and broader limits would be placed on increases in the market share of liabilities at the largest financial firms to supplement existing limitations with respect to the market share of deposits. We do not
expect that this proposed rule would affect any of our existing businesses.

On December 11, 2009, the House passed the Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Wall Street Reform Act”) The legislation would create the CFPA and the new agency would have oversight over most consumer protection laws (except the Community Reinvestment Act) 180 days after the
bill is enacted into law. The Wall Street Reform Act allows for federal preemption of state consumer protection laws only in cases where the state laws “prevent, significantly interfere with, or materially impair” the ability of national
banks to engage in the business of banking.

Additionally, the Wall Street Reform Act addresses systemic risk and resolution authority in a
number of ways. First, it would create an inter-agency Financial Services Oversight Council that would identify and regulate financial institutions that pose systemic risks, and these institutions would be subject to heightened oversight and
regulation. The Wall Street Reform Act also establishes a process for dismantling failing, systemically risky firms and requires assessments of financial companies with over $50 billion in assets to pay for a Systemic Dissolution Fund.

The Wall Street Reform Act would also make certain changes to the manner in which fees are assessed against financial institutions by the FDIC. First,
the amount of the FDIC’s assessment would be determined based on average total assets less average tangible equity as opposed to total domestic deposits. Second, the considerations that the FDIC utilizes in its risk-based assessment formula
would be modified to include the risks to the deposit insurance fund posed by the uninsured affiliates of the depository institution. Third, the FDIC would be required to consider off-balance sheet exposures when setting its rates. The FDIC’s
current authority to establish separate assessment systems for large and small institutions would be eliminated. Furthermore, regulatory agencies would be required to adopt joint regulations requiring creditors and securitizers to retain at least
five percent of the credit risk with respect to such credit or security and prohibit the hedge or transfer of such risk. The agencies could reduce or increase the five percent requirement depending on the circumstances.

The Wall Street Reform Act also addresses shareholder measures, including requiring public companies to provide shareholders with a non-binding vote with
respect to executive compensation and to have a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Additionally, the federal banking regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Federal Housing Finance Agency
(FHFA) would be required to jointly issue regulations prohibiting any compensation package that encourages executives to take risks that could seriously affect the economy or threaten a financial institution’s safety and soundness. The act also
includes substantial portions of H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, which the House passed in May 2009 (and discussed below in “Housing and Mortgage Lending”).

No companion bill to the Wall Street Reform Act has yet been introduced in the Senate.

Proposed TARP Assessment

In January 2010, the President announced additional proposals
that would impact financial institutions. The first proposal would levy a new tax on institutions within the financial sector to recoup the benefits certain institutions have received under government assistance programs, including TARP. The annual
fee would be assessed at a rate of 15 basis points of “covered liabilities” for financial firms with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets (excluding Tier 1 capital, FDIC-assessed deposits and insurance policy reserves). To date,
Congress has not put forth legislation on this issue. If the proposal is enacted as described above, the impact to the Company is estimated to be $154 million.

Housing and Mortgage Lending

Since 2008, Congress has also focused on the housing market,
looking at both retrospective and prospective solutions. In July 2008, legislation was enacted to create additional federal backstops and strengthen regulation of the Government Sponsored Enterprises (“GSEs”), including an overhaul of the
Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) programs. In May 2009, H.R. 1728, the “Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act” was passed in the House. The legislation would place a federal duty of care on mortgage originators,
lower the threshold for loans covered under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA), as well as address assignee liability and require that securitizers retain access to all loans packaged and sold. As discussed above, in December 2009,
this legislation was included in the Wall Street Reform Act that passed the U.S. House.







In May 2009, the President signed the “Helping Families Save Their Homes Act” which provides
various types of foreclosure relief and changes to the mortgage marketplace. Among other things, the law would require the OCC, OTS and HUD to report to Congress on the number and type of loan modifications made by entities under their supervision;
provide a limited safe harbor for any mortgage loan servicer that enters into a “qualified loss mitigation plan” with a borrower whose loan is held in a securitization vehicle; make various changes to the HOPE for Homeowners Act of 2008
(H4H) by providing greater incentives for mortgage servicers to engage in modifications and reducing administrative burdens on loan underwriters; require new owners of mortgage loans to give notice to borrowers of the sale, transfer or assignment of
the loan within 30 days of such sale, transfer or assignment and to provide certain information; and require 90 days notice to terminate the lease of a bona fide tenant of a foreclosed-upon dwelling.

Bankruptcy

There have been several
proposals in Congress to modify the bankruptcy laws to permit homeowners at risk of foreclosure to receive a modification of their primary mortgages. On October 20, 2008, President Bush signed the “National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief
Act of 2008,” making bankruptcy filings easier for national guardsmen and reservists.

Broad bankruptcy legislation that could be seen as
creating incentives for consumers to choose Chapter 13 bankruptcy as a primary remedy for mortgage related problems was also introduced in 2009. This legislation passed the U.S. House in March 2009; however, when it was offered as an amendment to a
separate bill in the U.S. Senate, it was defeated. The Senate sponsor, Senator Dick Durbin, has stated he intends to continue working to enact the legislation and will use other available legislative vehicles, including reintroducing the amendment
at a later date. During the House consideration of the comprehensive regulatory reform bill in December 2009, the bankruptcy amendment was offered, but failed. Finally, Senators Whitehouse (D-RI) and Durbin have introduced legislation to disallow
claims arising from “high cost consumer credit” in bankruptcy proceedings. The Senate Judiciary Committee has yet to take action on the bill; however, the bill was placed on the Committee calendar for consideration but has not been brought
up for debate and vote.

Please see “Compliance With New and Existing Laws and Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To
Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges” under Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks posed to the Company as a result of the current legislative environment.

Regulation of International Business by Non—U.S. Authorities

In July 2009, the U.K. government published “Review of the Regulation of Credit and Store
Cards,” a report on the credit card industry, and issued a formal consultation in October 2009. The report and consultation focus on the allocation of payments, minimum payment increases, unsolicited credit limit increases, and repricing. The
U.K. government is soliciting comments from consumers and the credit card industry, and is expected to propose legislative changes in the second quarter of 2010.

In addition, the U.K. government has proposed a Financial Services Bill which is currently before Parliament that would restrict the issuance of unsolicited credit card checks. If passed as proposed,
credit card issuers would not be able to issue credit card checks unless requested by a cardholder and each request would be limited to up to three checks.

Following the passing of the Consumer Credit Directive (the “CCD”) by the European Commission (the “EC”), the U.K consumer credit regime, including the laws and regulations with
respect to the marketing of consumer credit products and the design of and disclosure in consumer credit agreements, is due to change significantly. The CCD is also introducing new regulations requiring that certain information be provided to
consumers before a credit agreement is entered into and explicit requirements to ensure that any such consumer is creditworthy. The CCD is required to be implemented into U.K law by June 11, 2010, although there are indications that there may
be a delay in this implementation timeframe.







The OFT is investigating Visa and MasterCard’s current methods of setting interchange fees applicable
to U.K. domestic transactions. Cross-border interchange fees are also coming under scrutiny from the European Commission, which in December 2007 issued a decision notice stating that MasterCard’s interchange fees applicable to cross border
transactions are in breach of European Competition Law. MasterCard has appealed this decision. A similar decision is expected in relation to Visa’s cross border interchange fees. The timing of any final resolution of the matter by EC or OFT is
uncertain and it is unlikely that there will be any determination before the end of 2011. However, it is likely that interchange fees will be reduced, which could adversely affect the yield on U.K. credit card portfolios.

Following a referral by the OFT, the Competition Commission (the “CC”) launched a market investigation into the supply of Payment Protection
Insurance (“PPI”) in the U.K. PPI on mortgages, credit cards, unsecured loans (personal loans, motor loans and hire purchase) and secured loans is included. The CC published its final report on remedies on January 29, 2009, which
included point of sale changes and the introduction of an annual PPI statement to customers. At the end of 2009, Barclays Bank successfully challenged the remedies package at the Competition Appeals Tribunal (the “CAT”) and the CC is
currently revisiting its proposals. The new provisional remedies package is expected to be delivered in May 2010, followed by a consultation period at which point the U.K Bank will be able to assess the impact of the proposed new remedies. The U.K.
Bank is now expecting the remedies will not be implemented until 2011.

As in the U.S., in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we operate, we face a
risk that the laws and regulations that are applicable to us (or the interpretations of existing laws by relevant regulators) may change in ways that adversely impact our business.

Statistical Information

The statistical information required by
Item 1 can be found in Item 6 “Selected Financial Data”, Item 7 “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data”.



