Item 1. Business



OVERVIEW

General

Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware Corporation established in 1994 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through branches, the internet and other distribution channels. As ofDecember 31, 2014, our principal subsidiaries included:

•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and

•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.

The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the “Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2014Form 10-K” or “2014Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year endedDecember 31, 2014. All references to2014,2013,2012,2011, and2010refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires,December 31, 2014,December 31, 2013,December 31, 2012,December 31, 2011andDecember 31, 2010, respectively. Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the “Glossary and Acronyms” and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

As one of the nation’s ten largest banks based on deposits as ofDecember 31, 2014, we service banking customer accounts through the internet and branchlocations across New York, Louisiana, Texas, Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey and District of Columbia.  We alsooperate the largest online direct banking institution in the United States.In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and mortgage banking in markets across the United States.We were the fourth largest issuer of Visa®(“Visa”) and MasterCard®(“MasterCard”) credit cards in the United States based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as ofDecember 31, 2014.

We also offer products outside of the United States principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. COEP has authority, among other things, to provide credit card and installment loans. Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.

Recent Acquisitions and Dispositions

We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services and financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also explore opportunities to acquire digital companies and related assets to improve our information technology infrastructure and to deliver on our digital strategy. We also regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of businesses. We may issue equity or debt in connection with acquisitions, including public offerings, to fund such acquisitions. We did not have any significant acquisitions or dispositions in 2014. Below we provide information on acquisitions and dispositions completed in 2013.

Acquisitions in 2013

On November 1, 2013, we acquired Beech Street Capital, a privately-held, national originator and servicer of Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) and Federal Housing Authority (“FHA”) multifamily commercial real estate loans. The acquisition expands and enhances our existing multifamily capabilities and product offerings. At closing, we acquired a mortgage servicing portfolio on approximately $10 billion of loans. Beech Street Capital was renamed Capital One Multifamily Finance in 2014.



1Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)






Dispositions in 2013

On September 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the Best Buy private label and co-branded credit card portfolio to Citibank, N.A (“Portfolio Sale”). Pursuant to the agreement with Citibank, N.A., we received $6.4 billion for the net portfolio assets.

Additional Information

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) 100 Index. As of January 30, 2015, there were12,610holders of record of our common stock. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102, telephone number (703) 720-1000. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available on our website include: (i) our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) charters for the Audit, Risk, Compensation, and Governance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

In addition, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Our consolidated total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of funding costs associated with deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income net of reward expenses and service charges and other customer-related fees. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses (including salaries and associate benefits, occupancy and equipment costs, professional services, communication and data processing expenses and other miscellaneous expenses), marketing expenses and income taxes.

Our principal operations are currently organized for management reporting purposes into three primary business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio and asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group, are included in the Other category.

•Credit Card:Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.

•Consumer Banking:Consists of our branch-based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumers and small businesses, national deposit gathering, national auto lending and consumer home loan lending and servicing activities.

•Commercial Banking:Consists of our lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our commercial and industrial customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $10 million to $1 billion.

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volumes and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to higher seasonal consumer spending and payment patterns around the winter holiday season, summer vacations and back-to-school periods. No individual quarter in 2014, 2013 or 2012 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues in any of these fiscal years. Delinquency rates in our Credit Card and Consumer Banking businesses also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns, with delinquency rates generally tending to decrease in the first two quarters of the year as customers use income tax refunds to pay down outstanding loan balances.

For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see “Part II─Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance” and “Note 19—Business Segments” of this Report.



2Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

General

Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. § 1842) (the “BHC Act”) and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its required approvals for investments in or acquisitions of banking organizations, capital adequacy standards and limitations on our nonbanking activities. We are also subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, such as consumer lending and other activities that have been approved by the Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf of the BHC or any of its affiliates. Impermissible activities for BHCs include activities that are related to commerce such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), Federal Reserve regulation, and Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to any banks that we control, including the Banks, and to commit resources to support them.

On May 27, 2005, we became a “financial holding company” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act (the “GLBA”). The GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the nonbank companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature (including, for example, insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities and, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities.

Our election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository institutions we control meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Effective July 21, 2011, under amendments to the BHC Act enacted under the Dodd-Frank Act, Capital One Financial Corporation also must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” The failure to meet the criteria for financial holding company status could, depending on which requirements were not met, result in the Company facing restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) up to applicable limits. In addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA’s international operations (discussed below), the Banks are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC, the FDIC and by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”).

We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business (see below under “Regulation of International Business by Non-U.S. Authorities”).

Regulation of Business Activities

The business activities of the Company and Banks also are subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations.

Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “FCRA”), the CRA and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (“SCRA”), as well as under various state laws. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of a bank to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws may affect the ability of banks to collect outstanding balances.

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure (“CARD”) Act (amending the Truth In Lending Act) enacted in May 2009, and related changes to Regulation Z, impose a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees,



3Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








require that a consumer’s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and update the disclosures required for open-end credit.

Mortgage Lending

The CFPB has issued several final rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that provide additional disclosure requirements and substantive limitations on our mortgage lending activities. These rules, which include the Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards Under the Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z) and Integrated Mortgage Disclosures under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X) and the Truth In Lending Act (Regulation Z), could impact the type and amount of mortgage loans we offer. The Dodd-Frank Act also generally requires securitizers to retain a five percent economic interest in the credit risk of assets sold through the issuance of asset-backed securitizations, with an exemption for traditionally underwritten residential mortgage loans that meet the definition of a qualified residential mortgage loan. The final implementing rules on risk retention define a qualified residential mortgage loan to be identical to the CFPB’s definition of a qualified mortgage loan.

Debit Interchange Fees

Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001



The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and due diligence on customers.



The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms for the U.S. government, including: due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; and rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement and to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes.

Funding

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk,” only well-capitalized and adequately-capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions, however, must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits from outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its earnings.

For any of our funding through securitization, in addition to the provision requiring a securitizer to retain a portion of the credit risk of an asset-backed securitization, the Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits conflicts of interest relating to securitizations.



4Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








Nonbank Activities

Certain of our nonbank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. Capital One Securities, Inc. and Capital One Investing, LLC (formerly known as Capital One Sharebuilder, Inc.) are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among other things, net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to other regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.

Capital One Asset Management LLC, which provides investment advice to customers of Capital One, N.A., including high net worth individuals, institutions, foundations, endowments and other organizations, is an SEC-registered investment adviser regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Advisors, LLC (formerly known as ShareBuilder Advisors, LLC) is also an SEC-registered investment adviser.

Finally, Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients and is regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services in its home state and by the state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates.

Derivative Activities

In 2012, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC jointly issued final rules further defining the Dodd-Frank Act’s “swap dealer” definitions. Based on the final rules, no Capital One entity will be required to register with the CFTC or SEC as a swap dealer; however, this may change in the future. If such registration occurs, the registered entity is required to comply with additional regulatory requirements relating to its derivatives activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all swap market participants to keep swap transaction data records and report certain information to swap data repositories on a real-time and on-going basis. Further, each swap, group, category, type or class of swap that the CFTC or SEC determines must be cleared will need to be cleared through a derivatives clearinghouse unless the swap is eligible for a clearing exemption and executed on a designated contract market (“DCM”), exchange or swap execution facility (“SEF”), unless no DCM, exchange or SEF has made the swap available for trading.

Volcker Rule

In December 2013, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC approved a final rule implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule.” We and each of our subsidiaries, including the Banks, are subject to the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule contains prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain investments in, and relationships with, covered funds (hedge funds, private equity funds, and similar funds) in each case as those terms are defined in the rule, and requires that we implement a robust compliance program in accordance with the requirements of the rule. For covered funds that were not in place prior to December 31, 2013,banking organizations have until July 21, 2015 to comply with most requirements of the Volcker Rule. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued an order to give all banking entities until July 21, 2016, to conform their investments in and relationships with covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 (“legacy covered funds”).  The Federal Reserve also stated that it intends next year to issue an additional one-year extension of the conformance period for legacy covered funds, until July 21, 2017. Absent a specific extension, banking organizations must conform their proprietary trading activities to the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015. We continue to progress toward compliance with the Volcker Rule and to implement a compliance program designed to meet the Volcker Rule’s requirements.

Capital Adequacy

The Company and the Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve and OCC. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management” and “Note 12—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.” The Company and the Banks exceeded minimum regulatory requirements under these guidelines as of December 31, 2014.



5Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules

In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) released proposals for additional capital and liquidity requirements, which subsequently have been clarified and amended (“Basel III”). In September 2010, the Basel Committee announced a package of reforms that included detailed capital ratios and capital conservation buffers, subject to transition periods through 2018. In December 2010, the Basel Committee published a final framework on capital and liquidity, consistent in large part with the prior proposals. In November 2011, the Basel Committee adopted a framework that would require additional Tier 1 common capital for systemically important institutions. This surcharge would vary based on the firm’s systemic importance as determined using five criteria (size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity). The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC (collectively, the “Federal Banking Agencies”) have stated that they intend to implement this surcharge, although the extent to which it would apply to us is unclear. In January 2014, the Basel Committee made changes to the leverage ratio rules to account for differences in national accounting frameworks.

The Federal Banking Agencies issued a rule in July 2013 implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee as well as certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions (“Final Rule”). The Final Rule increases the minimum capital that we and other institutions are required to hold.

Prior to being revised in the Final Rule in 2013, the minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies followed Basel I. In December 2007 the “Advanced Approaches” version of Basel II was adopted. The Final Rule modified both Basel I and the Basel II Advanced Approaches (as modified, referred to respectively as the “Basel III Standardized Approach” and the “Basel III Advanced Approaches”).

The Basel III Advanced Approaches is mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. We became subject to these rules at the end of 2012. Prior to full implementation of the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework, organizations must complete a qualification period of at least four consecutive quarters, known as the parallel run, during which they must meet the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of their primary U.S. banking regulator. We entered parallel run on January 1, 2015. We have completed the development of our Basel III Advanced Approaches implementation plan. Compliance with the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework will require a material investment of resources in building processes and systems.

The so-called Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented in the Final Rule, establishes a capital floor so that organizations subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches may not hold less capital than would be required using the Basel III Standardized Approach capital calculations. Our current analysis suggests that our risk-weighted assets will increase under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework, and therefore we would need to hold more regulatory capital in order to maintain a given capital ratio.

The Final Rule increases the general risk-based and leverage capital requirements; significantly revises the definition of regulatory capital, including by eliminating certain items that constituted regulatory capital; establishes a minimum Tier 1 common equity requirement; introduces a new capital conservation buffer requirement and a new countercyclical capital buffer; and (as noted below) updates the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums. Specifically, the Final Rule establishes for bank holding companies and banks a new minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, adopts a leverage ratio of 4.0% (and removes the current 3.0% percent limited exception), and implements a capital conservation buffer of 2.5%. It also contains a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0% and a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% (initially set to 0.0%). Compliance with certain aspects of the Final Rule went into effect as of January 1, 2014 and other provisions will go into effect according to different start dates and phase-in periods.

Under the Final Rule, beginning on January 1, 2014, as a Basel III Advanced Approaches banking organization that has yet to exit parallel run, we must use the Basel III Standardized Approach for calculating our regulatory capital, including as used in our capital ratios, subject to transition provisions. In 2014, however, we continued to use Basel I for calculating our risk-weighted assets in our regulatory capital ratios. Beginning on January 1, 2015, we must use the Basel III Standardized Approach for calculating our risk-weighted assets in our regulatory capital ratios.

For Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions like the Company and Banks, the Final Rule also implements a supplementary leverage ratio based on the Basel Committee leverage ratio. In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued a final rule that revised the supplementary leverage ratio consistent with revisions made by the Basel Committee, including by modifying the methodology for including off-balance sheet items in the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio and by requiring



6Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








institutions to calculate total leverage exposure using daily averages for on-balance sheet items and the average of three month-end calculations for off-balance sheet items.  The supplementary leverage ratio will become effective January 1, 2018.

For information regarding our expectations of how the Final Rule impacts us, see “MD&A—Capital Management.”

The Basel Committee also published a liquidity framework in December 2010, which was subsequently amended in January 2013 and January 2014. The liquidity framework includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision, each subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements. One standard seeks to promote short-term resilience by requiring sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a stress scenario lasting for 30 days. This standard, the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is included in the amended liquidity framework. The other standard, the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), seeks to promote longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period, based on the liquidity characteristics of assets and activities. This standard was finalized by the Basel Committee in October 2014. We expect that minimum liquidity requirements for us and other institutions will increase as a result of the Basel III liquidity framework, though rules implementing the Basel III NSFR have not yet been finalized by the Federal Banking Agencies.

In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued final rules implementing the Basel III LCR in the United States. The rule (the “Final LCR Rule”) applies to institutions with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in total consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposure, and their respective consolidated subsidiary depository institutions with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets. As a result, the Company and the Banks are subject to the Final LCR Rule. The Final LCR Rule will require the Company and each of the Banks to hold an amount of eligible high-quality, liquid assets that equals or exceeds 100% of their respective projected net cash outflows over a 30-day period, each as calculated in accordance with the Final LCR Rule. The Final LCR Rule phases in the minimum LCR standard as follows: 80% by January 1, 2015; 90% by January 1, 2016; and 100% by January 1, 2017 and thereafter. The Final LCR Rule came into effect in January 2015 and requires us to calculate the LCR as of the last business day of each month from January 2015 until July 2016. As of July 1, 2016, the Final LCR Rule requires us to calculate the LCR on a daily basis. We have been modifying the composition of our investment portfolio in preparation for the Final LCR Rule, with some of these actions resulting in us purchasing types of securities that are lower yielding than securities we would otherwise be purchasing if not for the Final LCR Rule.

We will continue to monitor regulators’ implementation of the new capital and liquidity rules and assess the potential impact to us.

Market Risk Capital Rule

A market risk capital rule, which the Federal Banking Agencies amended in August 2012, supplements both the general risk-based capital rules and the Basel III Advanced Approaches rules by requiring institutions subject to the rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading activities. The rule applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to the lesser of (i) 10 percent or more of total assets or (ii) $1 billion or more. Currently, we are not subject to this rule but may become subject to it in the future.

FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action

As noted above, the Final Rule updates the prompt corrective action framework to reflect new, higher regulatory capital minimums. This rule adjusts the definitions of well capitalized and adequately capitalized. For an insured depository institution to be well



7Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








capitalized, it must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10 percent or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8 percent or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5 percent or more; and a leverage ratio of 5 percent or more. An adequately-capitalized depository institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 8 percent or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent or more; a leverage ratio of 4 percent or more; and, for Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions, a supplementary leverage ratio, which incorporates a broader set of exposures, of 3 percent or more. The revised prompt corrective action requirements became effective on January 1, 2015, other than the supplementary leverage ratio, which becomes effective on January 1, 2018.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDICIA requires regulators to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. In 2014, the OCC issued regulatory guidelines that apply heightened standards for risk management to large institutions subject to its supervision, including the Banks. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act

With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, because we are a bank holding company with consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater (a “covered company”), we are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards, including requirements that may be recommended by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) and implemented by the Federal Reserve and other regulators. As a result, we are becoming subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable for smaller institutions. The Council also may issue recommendations to the Federal Reserve or other primary financial regulatory agency to apply new or heightened standards to risky financial activities or practices.

In 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized rules requiring us to implement resolution planning for orderly resolution in the event the Company faces material financial distress or failure. The FDIC issued similar rules regarding resolution planning applicable to the Banks. In addition, in October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a rule that implements the requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act that the Federal Reserve conduct annual stress tests on the capacity of our capital to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. The stress test rule also implements the requirement that we conduct our own semiannual stress tests and requires us to publish the results of the stress tests on our website or other public forum. The OCC finalized a similar stress test rule in October 2012, to implement the requirement that each of the Banks conduct annual stress tests.

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve released proposed rules beginning to implement the enhanced prudential standards. The Federal Reserve finalized certain of the proposed rules on February 18, 2014 (“Enhanced Standards Rule”). The Enhanced Standards Rule, however, did not finalize the proposed single-counterparty credit limits or early remediation framework. Under the Enhanced Standards Rule, we must meet liquidity risk management standards, conduct internal liquidity stress tests, and maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets, in each case, consistent with the requirements of the rule. These requirements are in addition to the Final LCR, discussed above in “Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules.” In addition, the Enhanced Standards Rule requires that we comply with, and hold capital commensurate with the requirements of, any regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve relating to capital planning and stress tests. The Federal Reserve’s capital plan and stress test rules are discussed in “Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds” below.

The Enhanced Standards Rule also requires that we establish an enterprise-wide risk management framework that includes a risk committee and a chief risk officer. Similarly, Heightened Standards Guidance (the “Guidance”) issued by the OCC establishes standards for the development and implementation by the Banks of a risk governance framework.

We were required to comply with the requirements of the Enhanced Standards Rule beginning on January 1, 2015.

In addition to the provisions described throughout this section, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers and affiliate transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions related to corporate governance and executive compensation and new fees and assessments, among others.

The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules may result in modifications to our business models and organizational structure, and may subject us to escalating costs associated with any such changes.

However, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or, in some cases, years. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires various studies and reports to be delivered to Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action.



8Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








Investment in the Company and the Banks

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval, including under the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act.

Federal law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of the Company or the Banks without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control exists if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25 percent of any class of our voting stock or otherwise has a controlling influence over us. For a publicly traded bank holding company like us, a rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires more than 10 percent of any class of our voting stock.

Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (the “Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its holding company without making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions.

Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve finalized capital planning rules applicable to large bank holding companies like us (commonly referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or “CCAR”). Under the rules, a bank holding company with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis that contains a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning horizon beginning with the fourth quarter of the calendar year prior to the submission of the capital plan (“CCAR cycle”). The bank holding company may take the capital actions in its capital plan if the Federal Reserve provides a nonobjection to the plan. The Federal Reserve’s objection or nonobjection generally applies to capital actions during the four quarters beginning with the second quarter of the second calendar year in the planning horizon.

On October 17, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to modify the regulations for capital planning and stress testing (the “Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule”). In addition, the OCC issued a final rule in December 2014 modifying its Dodd-Frank Act stress testing regulation, to be consistent with the Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule changes to the Federal Reserve’s Dodd-Frank Act stress testing regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act stress testing regulations are described above in “Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.”

The Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule changes the annual capital plan and stress test cycle start date from October 1 to January 1, effective for the cycle beginning January 1, 2016. Under the Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule, for the CCAR cycle under which capital plan submissions were due by January 5, 2015 (“2015 CCAR cycle”), the Federal Reserve’s objection or nonobjection will apply to planned capital actions from the second quarter of 2015 through the second quarter of 2016. Subsequent submissions each would cover a four-quarter period. The change in the start date of the annual cycle impacts the as-of dates for data used to project results as well as the dates that stress test results must be submitted to the regulators and disclosed to the public. For the annual company-run stress test, a BHC is required to disclose the results within 15 calendar days after the Federal Reserve discloses the results of that BHC’s supervisory stress test, unless that time was extended by the Federal Reserve. The Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule requires a BHC to disclose results of its mid-cycle stress test within 30 calendar days after the BHC submits the results of its mid-cycle stress test to the Federal Reserve, unless that time period is extended by the Federal Reserve.

The Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule also provides a one-year deferral on the use of Basel III Advanced Approaches for banking institutions to estimate their capital ratios for the 2015 capital plan and stress test cycles.

In addition, the Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule shifts the focus of the Federal Reserve from annual capital issuances and distributions to quarterly capital issuances and distributions by establishing a new cumulative net distribution requirement. With certain limited exceptions, this requirement provides that-as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the planning horizon-to the extent a BHC does not issue the amount of a given class of regulatory capital instrument that it projected in its capital plan, the BHC must reduce its capital distributions as required by the Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule such that the cumulative net amounts of a BHC’s actual capital issuances and capital distributions for that category of regulatory capital instrument cannot be less than the cumulative net amounts of capital issuances and capital distributions projected in the BHC’s capital plan for that category of regulatory capital instrument.



9Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








The purpose of the Final Capital Plan and Stress Test Rule is to ensure that large bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks and capital needs to continue operations through times of economic and financial stress. As part of its evaluation of a capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the comprehensiveness of the plan, the reasonableness of assumptions and analysis and methodologies used to assess capital adequacy and the ability of the BHC to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a planning horizon of at least nine quarters. On September 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve released an interim final rule that incorporated the Final Rule into CCAR. The 2015 CCAR cycle will require us to meet the Basel III Standardized Approach capital requirements, with appropriate phase-in provisions applicable to Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions during the CCAR planning horizon, under the supervisory severely adverse stress scenario, in addition to the CCAR’s Tier 1 common ratio using Basel I definitions.

Traditionally, dividends to us from our direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Each of CONA and COBNA, as an insured depository institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed on March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act permits the FDIC to set a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

Source of Strength and Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions

Under the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of strength doctrine, directing the Federal Reserve to require bank holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks.

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.



10Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act provides the FDIC with liquidation authority that may be used to liquidate nonbank financial companies and bank holding companies if the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President and based on the recommendation of the Federal Reserve and another federal agency, determines that doing so is necessary, among other criteria, to mitigate serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must liquidate the company in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard. The costs of a liquidation of a financial company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future.

Regulation of International Business by Non-U.S. Authorities

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom and Canada.

United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, COBNA operates through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), which was established in 2000 and is an authorized payment institution regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) under the Payment Services Regulations 2009. COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K.

Over the past few years the U.K. government has enacted significant changes to the framework of financial services regulation.  As part of these changes, in April 2013, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) was split into a new Prudential Regulatory Authority (“PRA”) and the FCA, with the FCA, rather than the PRA, regulating COEP.  In April 2014, the FCA took over regulation of the U.K. consumer credit regime previously regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”). The FCA’s new regulatory purview includes credit card lending activities. The FCA published a new Consumer Credit Sourcebook (“CONC”) which came into effect on April 1, 2014, with a six month transitional period, which ended on September 30, 2014, for COEP and other card issuers already in compliance with the existing OFT regime. The CONC replicates existing laws and guidance that COEP was subject to under OFT regulation, although there are some amendments and new rules and guidance.

Regulatory focus on Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) complaint handling has continued as PPI continues to be a key driver of consumer complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. COEP continues to deliver on its remediation plan in relation to PPI complaints.

COEP is a party to the Card Protection Plan Limited (“CPP”) redress scheme which enables customers who bought card protection insurance with CPP to seek compensation. In January 2014 the redress scheme was launched with a general claims bar date of August 30, 2014, other than exceptional circumstances. The claims bar date for exceptional circumstances is February 28, 2015.

On July 4, 2013, the European Court of Justice (“ECJ”) heard MasterCard’s appeal against the General Court’s decision that its cross-border interchange fees were anti-competitive. In September 2014, the ECJ dismissed MasterCard’s appeal. On July 24, 2013, the European Commission (“EC”) published the proposed new Interchange regulations which will cap debit interchange fees at 0.2% and credit interchange fees at 0.3%. In November 2014, European leaders moved to the final stages of negotiating the regulations based on the EC’s published regulations; however, it is unlikely the cap will change. Uncertainty remains as to the exact timing for implementation and on whether cross-border and domestic rates will be imposed concurrently or whether cross-border rates would be imposed first.

Canada

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (the “Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (“OSFI”). Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws, including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.



11Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








In 2014, there were two new significant developments that affect credit cards issued by federally regulated financial institutions in Canada, such as Capital One Canada. These changes could increase our operational and compliance costs and affect the types and terms of products that we offer in Canada.

On September 19, 2014, the Supreme Court of Canada (the “Court”) released its decision in Bank of Montreal v. Marcotte (“Marcotte”). In Marcotte, the Court stated that banks, despite being federally-regulated entities, could be subject to provincial laws of general application and provincial laws that provided for a variety of civil causes of action against banks. The broader implications of the decision on the applicability of provincial law to banks and other federally-regulated entities in Canada still remain unclear.

In July 2013, the Competition Tribunal dismissed an application of the Commissioner of Competition alleging that Canadian credit card interchange fees were anti-competitive. In November 2014, in response to this application, and concerns expressed by the Department of Finance Canada regarding credit card interchange rates, MasterCard Canada and Visa Canada Corporation announced separate and individual voluntary commitments to reduce interchange rates for consumer credit cards to an average effective interchange rate of 1.5%, a decrease of approximately 10%. These commitments are expected to be implemented by the end of April 2015, and will remain in effect for 5 years, subject to certain conditions. As a result of these commitments, the Department of Finance Canada has indicated that there is no need for it to regulate interchange rates set by credit card networks at this time.



COMPETITION

Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit, reward programs and other product features.

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national and state banks and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, mortgages and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors.

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our associates and on our reputation. In the current environment, customers are generally attracted to depository institutions that are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding. We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, please refer to “Part I—Item 1A.Risk Factors.”



EMPLOYEES

A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain a highly capable staff. We had approximately 46,000 employees, whom we refer to as “associates,” as ofDecember 31, 2014. None of our associates are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our associate relations to be satisfactory.



12Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)








ADDITIONAL INFORMATION



Technology/Systems

We leverage information technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development and use of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems, such as cloud technology, to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and diversified products. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third-party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. We continue to rely on third-party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. (“TSYS”) for processing services for our North American and U.K. portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts, and Fidelity Information Services (“FIS”) for the Capital One banking systems.

To protect our systems and technologies, we employ security, backup and recovery systems and generally require the same of our third-party service providers. In addition, we perform, or cause to be performed, a variety of vulnerability and penetration testing on the platforms, systems and applications used to provide our products and services in an effort to ensure that any attacks on these platforms, systems and applications are unlikely to succeed. Capital One, along with several other U.S. financial services providers, was targeted on several occasions with distributed denial-of-service (“DDOS”) attacks from sophisticated third parties that succeeded, on a few occasions, in temporarily limiting our ability to service customers through online platforms.



Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors and other third parties to obtain such patents may adversely affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

From time to time, we have made and will make forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, returns, expenses, capital measures, accruals for claims in litigation and for other claims against us, earnings per share or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; and the assumptions that underlie these matters.

To the extent that any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:

•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada or our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, collateral values, consumer income and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;



13Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)






•an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment);

•financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder and regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards, including Basel-related initiatives and potential changes to financial accounting and reporting standards;

•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation matter involving us;

•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;

•increases or decreases in interest rates;

•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth;

•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;

•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances;

•the level of future repurchase or indemnification requests we may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage loans relating to such requests, the success rates of claimants against us, any developments in litigation and the actual recoveries we may make on any collateral relating to claims against us;

•the amount and rate of deposit growth;

•changes in the reputation of, or expectations regarding, the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial condition;

•any significant disruption in our operations or technology platform;

•our ability to maintain a compliance and technology infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business;

•our ability to develop digital technology that addresses the needs of our customers;

•our ability to control costs;

•the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas;

•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;

•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting our response rates and consumer payments;

•any significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the internet affecting the ability of our customers to access their accounts and conduct banking transactions;

•our ability to recruit and retain talented and experienced personnel to assist in the development, management and operation of new products and services;

•changes in the labor and employment markets;

•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees or business partners;

•competition from providers of products and services that compete with our businesses; and

•other risk factors listed from time to time in reports that we file with the SEC.



14Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)






Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above in evaluating these forward-looking statements. For additional information on factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set forth under “Part I—Item 1A.Risk Factors” in this Report on Form 10-K.



