Item 1.    Business

General

The
demographics of the interactive entertainment industry audience have broadened significantly over the past few years, with video games becoming an increasingly popular form of mainstream
entertainment.











According
to the "2010Essential Facts About The Computer And Video Game Industry" published by Entertainment Software Association ("ESA"), an estimated
67% of all American households play PC or video games. The average game player is 34 years old and has been actively playing for 12 years.

Overall,
the installed base of console systems and handheld devices has continued to expand. According to the "Global Video Game Market Update"
published byInternational Development Group("IDG") in April 2011, the installed base of console systems and handhelds devices grew to
442.4 million units as of December 2010, an increase of 61.3 million units or 16% from December 2009, and forecasts that the number will increase to an estimated 734.2 million
units in calendar 2015. Further, according to IDG, global sales of console, handheld and PC software surpassed $24.1 billion in calendar 2010 and forecasts that the annual sales of video game
software will remain flat at an estimated $24.0 billion in calendar 2015.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1993 and are headquartered in New York, New York with 2,118 employees globally. Our telephone number is
(646) 536-2842 and our website address iswww.take2games.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available
free of charge on our website under the caption "Corporate—SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or
furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Our
website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our
reports without charge by writing to:

Take-Two
Interactive Software, Inc.622 BroadwayNew York, NY 10012Attn: Investor Relations

You
may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information
statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website iswww.sec.gov.

Strategy

Overview.We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative and efficient company in our industry. Our strategy is to capitalize on the widespread popularity of
interactive entertainment by focusing on publishing a select number of high quality titles for which we can create sequels and build successful franchises. We develop most of our frontline products
internally and own the intellectual property associated with most of our titles, which we believe best positions us financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary
software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres including action, adventure, racing, role-playing, sports and strategy. We believe that our commitment to
creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, allowing us to differentiate many of our products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters
that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired or licensed a group of highly recognizable brands to match the variety of consumer demographics we aspire to serve,
ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers.

Support Label Structure to Target Distinct Market Segments.Our business consists of our wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K, which publishes its titles
under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play. Each group focuses on distinct product genres and target demographics. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned











publisher
of theGrand Theft Auto,Midnight Club,Red
Deadand other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action product category and create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing titles as well
as developing new brands. We expect 2K Games, developer and publisher of our successfulSid Meier's Civilizationseries, our critically acclaimedBioShockfranchise and other popular titles, to continue to develop new and successful franchises in the future. Our 2K Sports series, which includesMajor League Baseball 2K,NBA
2K,NHL 2KandTop Spin,are generally published on an annual basis. 2K Play focuses on the market of casual and family-oriented
games such asCarnival Games, an internally developed and owned franchise. 2K Play has leveraged this franchise through sequels and brand extensions, includingCarnival Games™ MiniGolfandCarnival Games™: Monkey See, Monkey Do. We also
have expansion initiatives in the rapidly growing Asia-Pacific markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and
establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea.

Focus on Core Strength of Producing Select, High Quality Titles.Our primary strategy is to publish a select number of high quality titles based on
internally-owned and developed intellectual property, which typically provide higher margins than licensed products. We currently own the intellectual property rights of 19 proprietary brands. In
addition, we will selectively develop titles based on licensed properties, including sports, and also publish externally developed titles.

We
use a product investment review process to evaluate potential titles for investment, to review existing titles in development, and to assess titles after release to measure their performance in the
market and the return on our investment. We apply this process to all of our products, whether internally or externally developed. The product investment review process includes reviews of each
project at various stages of development by our executive management team and senior management of our publishing labels, and includes coordination between our sales and marketing personnel before the
launch of the titles. This disciplined approach to product investment is expected to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of our titles.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external developers based on their track record
and expertise in developing products in the same category or genre. One developer will generally produce the same game for multiple platforms and will also produce sequels to an original game. We
believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the
particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe increases the quality of our products.

Leverage Emerging Technologies and Platforms, Including Digitally Delivered Content.We believe the diversification of our product mix will reduce our operating
risks and increase our revenue. We continually seek to capitalize on the technological advances in our industry that are generating new revenue streams. We see opportunities in a variety of areas,
including downloadable content, micro-transactions, and social games. We are beginning to develop gaming experiences that capitalize on the increasing consumer adoption of social networks. We also
continue to pursue opportunities that exist for networked gameplay, particularly for our wholly-owned franchises, as well as micro-transactions, where gamers can pay to download additional content to
enhance their game playing experience.

Expand International Business.The global market for interactive entertainment continues to grow and we seek to increase our presence internationally, particularly
in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. We have expansion initiatives in the Asian markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan,
and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. We are a direct publisher in Japan and Korea. Historically, we distributed our products in Asia through license agreements with
local publishers in Japan and Korea, and distribution agreements with local distributors of finished goods elsewhere in Asia. While we retain title to all intellectual property, under license
agreements local publishers are responsible for localization of software content, distribution and marketing of the products in their respective local markets. We intend to continue to build upon our











licensing
relationships and also expand finished goods distribution strategies to grow our international business.

Our Publishing and Software Development Businesses

Revenue in our publishing business is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by
third-parties for our benefit. Operating margins in our publishing business are dependent in part upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful products and to manage software
product development costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom and the United States. As of March 31, 2011, we had a
research and development staff of
1,560 employees with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major current and prior generation consoles, handheld hardware platforms and PCs in multiple languages and
territories.

Operating
margins associated with our externally developed titles, or titles for which we do not own the intellectual property, are generally lower because they require us to acquire licenses, provide
minimum development guarantees, and pay third-party royalties. Agreements with third-party developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make development
payments, pay royalties based on product sales and satisfy other conditions. Development payments for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers based on
software sales. Our agreements with third-party developers generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making development payments if specified development
milestones are not satisfied. We also regularly monitor the level of development payments in light of expected sales for the related titles.

The
development cycle for our titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months and our top-selling titles could take up to 3 years or longer to develop. Although we
often simultaneously develop our software for multiple platforms, in certain cases it can take 9 to 12 months to adapt a product for additional hardware platforms after initial development for
one platform is completed. The cost to develop a frontline software title generally ranges from $10 million to $60 million, with our top titles exceeding these amounts. We expect that
development costs and time will continue to increase for current generation platforms.

We
continue to explore new revenue streams as they evolve, including higher margin sources such as downloadable content. We expect downloadable content to become more prevalent as broadband
connectivity continues to gain popularity and digital delivery platforms such as Xbox LIVE and PSN gain additional customers. We also have expansion initiatives in the Asia-Pacific
markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea.

Rockstar Games.Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of
theGrand Theft Auto,Midnight Club,Red Deadand other
popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action product category and create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing franchises as well as developing new brands. We believe
that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with itsGrand Theft Autoseries and continues to expand on our
established franchises by releasing sequels as well as offering downloadable episodes and content. Rockstar is also well known for developing brands in other genres, including theBully,ManhuntandMax Paynefranchises.

2K.Our 2K label publishes its titles under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play:

2K Games.2K Games has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across multiple genres and platforms and we expect 2K Games to continue to develop
new and successful franchises in the future. 2K Games' internally owned and developed franchises include the multi-million unit sellingBioShock,Mafia,
andSid Meier's Civilizationseries. 2K Games has also published titles that were externally









developed,
such asThe Darkness™ andBorderlands™, which has become another key
franchise for 2K Games since its launch in October 2009.

2K Sports.We develop most of our 2K Sports software titles through our internal development studios including theMajor League Baseball
2Kseries,NBA 2Kseries,NHL 2Kseries, and ourTop
Spintennis series. 2K Sports has secured long-term, third-party exclusive licensing relationships with Major League Baseball Properties, the Major League Baseball
Players Association and Major League Baseball Advanced Media. In addition, 2K Sports has secured licensing agreements with the National Basketball Association ("NBA") and the National Hockey League
("NHL").

We
also have expansion initiatives in the rapidly growing Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an
online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, 2K Sports secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online
version of the NBA simulation game in China, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia.

2K Play.2K Play focuses on developing and publishing titles for the market of casual and family-friendly games. 2K Play titles are developed by both internal
development studios and third-party developers. Internally developed titles includeCarnival GamesandBirthday Party
Bash. 2K Play also has a partnership with Nickelodeon to publish video games based on its top rated Nick Jr. titles such asDora the
Explorer;Go, Diego, Go!;Ni Hao, Kai-lanandThe Backyardigans. We expect
family-oriented gaming to continue to be a component of our industry in the future.

Discontinued operations

In February 2010, we completed the sale to SYNNEX Corporation ("Synnex") of our Jack of all Games third-party distribution business, which primarily
distributed third-party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.0 million, including $37.3 million in cash, subject to
purchase price adjustments, and up to an additional $6.7 million, subject to the achievement of certain items, which were not met. In April 2011, we settled on the purchase price adjustments
and as a result the purchase price was lowered by $1.5 million. Consequently, the net purchase price after the settlement was $35.8 million. The financial results of this business, which
were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The assets and
liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. See Note 2 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.

Intellectual Property

Our business is highly dependent on the creation, acquisition, licensing and protection of intellectual property. Some of the intellectual property
rights we have created or acquired for our internally-owned portfolio of brands are:BioShock, Bully, Carnival Games, The Darkness, Grand Theft Auto, L.A. Noire, Mafia,
Manhunt, Max Payne, Midnight Club, Railroad Tycoon,Red Dead, Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis, Sid Meier's Civilization, Sid Meier's Pirates!, Sid
Meier's Railroads!, Smuggler's Run, Spec Ops,andTop Spin.We believe that content ownership facilitates our internal product
development efforts and maximizes profit potential. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual
restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Although we generally do not hold any patents, we obtain trademark and copyright registrations for many of our products.

We
also enter into content license agreements, such as those with sports leagues and players associations, movie studios and performing talent, music labels and musicians. These licenses are typically
limited to use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, we license and include console











manufacturer
technology in our products on a non-exclusive basis, which allows our games to be played on their respective hardware systems.

Arrangements with Platform Manufacturers

We have entered into license agreements with Sony, Microsoft, Nintendo and Apple to develop and publish software in Asia, Australia, Europe and North
America. We are not required to obtain any licenses from hardware manufacturers to develop titles for the PC.

Sony.Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. and its affiliates, Sony granted us the
right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the PS3, PS2 and PSP. The agreements require us to submit products to Sony for approval and for us to make royalty
payments to Sony based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from downloaded content. In addition, products for the PS3, PS2 and PSP are required to be manufactured by Sony approved
manufacturers.

Microsoft.Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, Microsoft granted us the right and
license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the Xbox 360. The agreements require us to submit products to Microsoft for approval and for us to make royalty payments
to Microsoft based on the number of units manufactured or revenue from downloaded content. In addition, products for the Xbox 360 are required to be manufactured by Microsoft approved
manufacturers.

Nintendo.Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, Nintendo granted us the
right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software for Nintendo's Wii and DS. The agreements require us to submit products to Nintendo for approval and for us to make royalty
payments to Nintendo based on the number of units manufactured. In addition, products for such platforms are required to be manufactured by Nintendo.

Apple.Under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with Apple and Apple Subsidiaries, Apple granted us the right and license to develop
applications for the iPhone, iPod touch and iPad. The agreements require us to submit products to Apple for approval and for us to pay commissions based on prices paid by end users.

Manufacturing

Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo either manufacture or control selection of approved manufacturers of software products sold for use on their respective
hardware platforms. We place a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo and then send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer,
together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games are generally shipped within two to three
weeks of receipt of our purchase order and all materials.

Production
of PC software is performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our specifications and includes CD-ROM pressing, assembly of components, printing of packaging and user
manuals and shipping of finished goods. We send software code and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs to the
manufacturers. Games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order.

We
occasionally experience difficulties or delays in the manufacture of our titles; however such delays have not significantly harmed our business to date. We have not experienced material delays due
to manufacturing defects. Our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty.









Sales

We sell software titles to retail outlets in North America, Europe and Asia through direct relationships with large retail customers and third-party
distributors. Our customers in North America include leading mass merchandisers such as Wal-Mart; specialty retailers such as GameStop; electronics stores such as Best Buy; toy stores such
as Toys "R" Us; national and regional drug stores; rental outlets; and supermarket and discount store chains. Our European customers include Game Group, GameStop, GEM Distribution and Media Markt. We
have sales operations in Asia, Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We
are dependent on a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 accounted
for approximately 43.8% of our net revenue, with GameStop and Wal-Mart accounting for 19.2% and 10.8%, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our net revenue
during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011.

We
also digitally distribute our titles, downloadable content and micro transactions direct to consoles, PCs, and communications devices. We view digital distribution as an important growth
opportunity for our industry and company, however we continue to expect that packaged goods and traditional retailers will be the primary channel for the sale of our products for the foreseeable
future.

Marketing

Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize exposure and broaden distribution of our titles, promote brand name recognition,
assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles.

We
market titles by:

•Implementing public relations campaigns, using print and online advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor
advertising. We believe that we label and market our products in accordance with the applicable principles and guidelines of the Entertainment Software Rating Board, or the ESRB, an independent
self-regulatory body that assigns ratings and enforces advertising guidelines for the interactive software industry.•Satisfying certain shelf life and sales requirements under our agreements with hardware manufacturers in order to qualify
for Sony's Greatest Hits Programs and Microsoft's Platinum Hits Program. In connection with these programs, we receive manufacturing discounts from Sony and Microsoft. Similarly, Nintendo has also
established a Player's Choice Program for the Wii.•Stimulating continued sales by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times during the life
of a product. Price concessions may occur at any time in a product's life cycle, but typically occur three to nine months after a product's initial launch. During the fiscal years ended
March 31, 2011 and 2010 and fiscal years ended October 31, 2009 and 2008, price concessions to retailers amounted to $59.9 million, $61.1 million, $49.4 million and
$41.9 million, respectively. In certain international markets, we also provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales.

We
also employ various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct mail,
co-operative advertising, as well as attendance at trade shows. As of March 31, 2011, we had a sales and marketing staff of 258 people.

Product Procurement

We procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase orders based on our assessment of market demand, as well as
pre-orders from retailers. We carry inventory quantities that we believe are











necessary
to provide rapid response to retailer orders. We utilize electronic data interchange with many of our customers to enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders and receiving
payments.

Competition

In our publishing business, we compete with:

•Companies that range in size and cost structure from very small with limited resources to very large companies with
greater financial, marketing and technical personnel and other resources than ours, including Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts and THQ, and international companies, such as Capcom, Konami,
Namco-Bandai, SEGA, Square Enix and Ubisoft.•Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo for licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software, each of which
is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. Each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive
advertising campaigns.•Other software, hardware, entertainment and media for limited retail shelf space and promotional resources. The
competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support.•Other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio, online computer programs and other forms of
entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.

Competition
in the entertainment software industry is based on innovation, features, playability, and product quality; brand name recognition; compatibility with popular platforms; access to
distribution channels; price; marketing; and customer service. Our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing. Competition for our titles is
influenced by the timing of competitive product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our
titles at retail stores.

Trends and Factors Impacting our Business

Product Release Schedule.Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. OurGrand Theft
Autoproducts in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. The timing of ourGrand Theft Autoreleases varies significantly, which in turn
impacts our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis.

Economic Environment and Retailer Performance.We continue to monitor economic conditions which may have unfavorable impacts on our businesses, such as
deteriorating consumer demand, pricing pressure on our products, credit quality of our receivables, and foreign currency exchange rates. Our business is dependent upon a limited number of customers
who account for a significant portion of our revenue. The economic environment has impacted our customers in the past, and may do so in the future. Bankruptcies or consolidations of our large retail
customers could seriously hurt our business, due to uncollectible accounts receivables and the concentration of purchasing power among the remaining large retailers. Our business is also negatively
impacted by the actions of certain of our large customers, who sell used copies of our games, which reduces demand for new copies of our games. We now offer downloadable episodes and content for
certain of our titles. While this may serve to reduce some used game sales, we expect sales of used games to continue to affect our business.

Hardware Platforms.The majority of our products are made for the hardware platforms developed by three companies—Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. When
new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software based on older platforms declines, which may negatively affect our business. Additionally, our











development
costs are generally higher for titles based on new platforms, and we have limited ability to predict the consumer acceptance of the new platforms, which may impact our sales and
profitability. As a result, we believe it is important to focus our development efforts on a select number of titles, which is consistent with our strategy.

International Operations.Sales in international markets, primarily in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. We have also recently
expanded our Asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. We are subject to risks associated with foreign trade, including credit risks and consumer
acceptance of our products, and our financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Online Content and Digital Distribution.The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery
methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and services. A number of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct
digital download through the Internet (from websites owned by third-parties). We also offer downloadable add-on content to our packaged goods titles. In addition, we have several
initiatives underway to develop online games primarily for Asian markets. We expect online delivery of games and game services to become an increasing part of our business over the
long-term.

International Operations

Sales in international markets, principally in the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net
revenue. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 and fiscal years ended October 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 44.1%, 39.3%, 42.2% and 49.1%, respectively, of our net
revenue was earned outside the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. See Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Segment and Geographic Information

See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As of March 31, 2011, we had 2,118 full-time employees, of which 1,200 were employed outside of the United States. None of our
employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.











