Item 1.    Business

General

We are a leading developer, marketer and publisher of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. The Company develops and publishes
products through its two wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K, which publishes its titles under the 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play brands. Our products are designed
for console gaming systems such as Sony's PlayStation®3 ("PS3") and PlayStation®2 ("PS2"), Microsoft's Xbox 360® ("Xbox 360") and Nintendo's
Wii™ ("Wii"); handheld gaming systems such as Nintendo's DS ("DS"), Nintendo's 3DS ("3DS") and Sony's PlayStation Portable
("PSP"); and personal computers including smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products through physical retail, digital download, online platforms and cloud streaming services.

Video
games are a widespread and growing form of mainstream entertainment. As a result of the widening popularity of interactive entertainment, the video game market is expected to continue to grow in
coming years. Growth is expected to be driven by games played on traditional consoles, mobile gaming platforms such as tablets and smartphones, and online including through social networks. Overall,
the installed base of console systems and handheld devices has continued to expand. According to the "Global Video Game Market Update" published byInternational Development Group("IDG") in April 2012, the installed base of console systems and handhelds devices grew to 497.8 million
units as of December 2011, an increase of 55.4 million units or 13% from December 2010, and forecasts that the number will increase to an estimated 753.0 million units in
calendar 2016. Further, according to IDG, global sales of console, handheld, PC software and digital gaming segments, inclusive of mobile gaming platforms and online, surpassed
$57.2 billion in calendar 2011 and forecasts that their annual sales will increase to an estimated $89.3 billion in calendar 2016.

The
demographics of the interactive entertainment industry audience have broadened significantly over the past few years, with video games becoming an increasingly popular form of mainstream
entertainment.









According
to the "2011Essential Facts About The Computer And Video Game Industry" published by Entertainment Software Association ("ESA"), an estimated
72% of all American households play PC or video games. The average game player is 37 years old and has been actively playing for 12 years.

Our
core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on
building compelling entertainment franchises by publishing a select number of titles for which we can create sequels and add-on content. We support the success of our products in the
marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on all platforms and through all channels that are relevant to our target audience.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1993 and are headquartered in New York, New York with 2,235 employees globally. Our telephone number is
(646) 536-2842 and our website address iswww.take2games.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available
free of charge on our website under the caption "Corporate—SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Our
website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our
reports without charge by writing to:

Take-Two
Interactive Software, Inc.622 BroadwayNew York, NY 10012Attn: Investor Relations

You
may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information
statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website iswww.sec.gov.

Strategy

Overview.

We endeavor to be the most creative, innovative and efficient company in our industry. Our core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video
games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on building compelling entertainment franchises by publishing a
select number of titles for which we can create sequels and add-on content. Most of our intellectual property is internally owned and developed, which we believe best positions us
financially and competitively. We have established a portfolio of proprietary software content for the major hardware platforms in a wide range of genres, including action, adventure, racing,
role-playing, sports and strategy, which we distribute worldwide. We believe that our commitment to creativity and innovation is a distinguishing strength, enabling us to differentiate our
products in the marketplace by combining advanced technology with compelling storylines and characters that provide unique gameplay experiences for consumers. We have created, acquired or licensed a
group of highly recognizable brands to match the broad consumer demographics we serve, ranging from adults to children and game enthusiasts to casual gamers.
Another cornerstone of our strategy is to support the success of our products in the marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on all platforms and through all channels
that are relevant to our target audience.









Support Label Structure to Target Distinct Market Segments.

Our business consists of our wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K, which publishes its
titles under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play. Each group focuses on distinct product genres and target demographics. Rockstar Games is the developer and publisher of the
interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand,

Grand Theft Auto

, as well as other successful franchises including

L.A. Noire

,

Max Payne

,

Midnight Club

, and

Red Dead

. We expect Rockstar Games to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and create groundbreaking entertainment
by leveraging our existing franchises as well as developing new brands. 2K Games is the publisher of the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling

BioShock

,

Borderlands

,

Mafia

, and

Sid Meier's Civilization

franchises. We expect 2K Games to continue to be a leader in the
shooter, action, role-playing and strategy
categories by building on its existing brands, as well as developing new franchises in the future. 2K Sports publishes

NBA 2K

, the
top-ranked NBA basketball video game for 11 years running, as well as other sports titles including

Major League Baseball 2K

and

Top Spin

.
2K Play focuses on casual and family-friendly games such as

Carnival
Games

, an internally developed and owned franchise, and licensed titles based on popular Nickelodeon television programs. We also have expansion initiatives in the rapidly
growing Asia-Pacific markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an online gaming presence, especially
in China and Korea.

Focus on Core Strength of Producing Select, High Quality Titles.We focus on publishing a select number of high-quality titles based on
internally-owned and developed intellectual property, which typically provide higher margins than licensed products. We currently own the intellectual property rights of 19 proprietary brands. In
addition, we will selectively develop titles based on licensed properties, including sports, and also publish externally developed titles.

We
use a product investment review process to evaluate potential titles for investment, to review existing titles in development, and to assess titles after release to measure their performance in the
market and the return on our investment. We apply this process to all of our products, whether internally or externally developed. The product investment review process includes reviews of each
project at various stages of development by our executive management team and senior management of our publishing labels, and includes coordination between our sales and marketing personnel before the
launch of the titles. This disciplined approach to product investment is expected to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of our titles.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external developers based on their track record
and expertise in developing products in the same category or genre. One developer will generally produce the same game for multiple platforms and will also produce sequels to an original game. We
believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe increases the
quality of our products.

Leverage Emerging Technologies, Platforms and Distribution Channels, Including Digitally Delivered Content.Interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms,
including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks, represent exciting opportunities to enhance our growth and profitability. In addition, the interactive entertainment
industry is increasingly delivering content through digital download. We are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and
increase our revenue. Each of our labels has released offerings for tablets and smartphones across a variety of genres. In December 2011, we releasedGrand Theft
Auto III: 10thAnniversary Edition, which was our first title for Android and our highest-selling title for Apple's iOS platform to date. In
July 2011, we launched our first social gaming experience,Sid Meier's Civilization World, for Facebook, and we have several initiatives underway to
develop online games primarily for Asian markets. We will continue to invest in emerging opportunities in mobile and online gameplay, particularly for our wholly-owned franchises, as well as
downloadable content and micro-









transactions,
where gamers can pay to download additional content to enhance their game playing experience.

Expand International Business.The global market for interactive entertainment continues to grow and we seek to increase our presence internationally, particularly
in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. We have expansion initiatives in the Asian markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan,
and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. We are a direct publisher in Japan and Korea. Historically, we distributed our products in Asia through license agreements with
local publishers in Japan and Korea, and distribution agreements with local distributors of finished goods elsewhere in Asia. While we retain title to all intellectual property, under license
agreements local publishers are responsible for localization of software content, distribution and marketing of the products in their respective local markets. We intend to continue to build upon our
licensing relationships and also expand finished goods distribution strategies to grow our international business.

Our Publishing and Software Development Businesses

Revenue in our publishing business is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by
third-parties for our benefit. Operating margins in our publishing business are dependent in part upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful products and to manage software
product development costs. We have internal development studios located in Australia, Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom and the United States. As of March 31, 2012, we had a
research and development staff of 1,653 employees with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major current and prior generation consoles, handheld hardware platforms and PCs in
multiple languages and territories.

Operating
margins associated with our externally developed titles, or titles for which we do not own the intellectual property, are generally lower because they require us to acquire licenses, provide
minimum development guarantees, and pay third-party royalties. Agreements with third-party developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make development
payments, pay royalties based on product sales and satisfy other conditions. Development payments for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers based on
software sales. Our agreements with third-party developers generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making development payments if specified development
milestones are not satisfied. We also regularly monitor the level of development payments in light of expected sales for the related titles.

The
development cycle for our titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months and our top-selling titles could take up to 3 years or longer to develop. Although we
often simultaneously develop our software for multiple platforms, in certain cases it can take 9 to 12 months to adapt a product for additional hardware platforms after initial development for
one platform is completed. The cost to develop a frontline software title generally ranges from $10 million to $60 million, with our top titles exceeding these amounts. We expect that
development costs and time will continue to increase for current generation platforms.

We
continue to explore evolving business models such as downloadable content, online gaming and micro-transactions. We expect downloadable content to become more prevalent as broadband connectivity
continues to gain popularity and digital delivery platforms such as Microsoft's Xbox LIVE® Marketplace ("Xbox LIVE") and the Sony Entertainment Network ("SEN") gain additional
customers. We also have expansion initiatives in the Asia-Pacific markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and
establish an online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea.

Rockstar Games.Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally
developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of theGrand Theft Auto,Max Payne,Midnight









Club,Red Deadand other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and
create groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing titles as well as developing new brands. We believe that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with
itsGrand Theft Autoseries, which we believe is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has
sold-in approximately 120 million units. Rockstar continues to expand on our established franchises by releasing sequels, as well as offering downloadable episodes and content. In
May 2011, Rockstar released the commercially successful and critically acclaimedL.A. Noire, which became the first video game ever chosen
as an official selection of the Tribeca Film Festival. Rockstar has released several downloadable content packs to support that title. Rockstar is also well known for developing brands in other
genres, including theBullyandManhuntfranchises.

2K.Our 2K label publishes its titles under 2K Games, 2K Sports and 2K Play:

2K Games.2K Games has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across multiple genres and platforms and we expect 2K Games to
continue to develop new and successful franchises in the future. 2K Games' internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit sellingBioShock,Mafia, andSid Meier's Civilizationseries.
2K Games has also published titles that were externally developed, such asBorderlands, which has become a key franchise for 2K Games
since its launch in October 2009 and has been supported by several successful downloadable content packs.

2K Sports.2K Sports publishes realistic sports simulation titles, including our flagshipNBA
2Kseries, which has been the top-ranked NBA basketball video game for 11 years running, theMajor League Baseball
2Kseries, and ourTop Spintennis series. We develop most of our 2K Sports software titles through our internal
development studios. 2K Sports has secured long-term licensing agreements with the National Basketball Association ("NBA"). Our current licenses with Major League Baseball
Properties, the Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball Advanced Media expire in fiscal 2013.

We
also have expansion initiatives in the rapidly growing Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products, expand our business in Japan, and establish an
online gaming presence, especially in China and Korea. 2K Sports has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of the NBA simulation game in China,
Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia.

2K Play.2K Play focuses on developing and publishing titles for the casual and family-friendly games market. 2K Play titles are developed by
both internal development studios and third-party developers. Internally developed titles includeCarnival GamesandLet's
Cheer!. 2K Play also has a partnership with Nickelodeon to publish video games based on its top rated Nick Jr. titles such asDora the
Explorer;Go, Diego, Go!;Ni Hao, Kai-lanandThe Backyardigans. We expect
family-oriented gaming to continue to be a component of our business in the future.

Discontinued operations

In February 2010, we completed the sale to SYNNEX Corporation ("Synnex") of our Jack of All Games third-party distribution business, which
primarily distributed third-party interactive entertainment software, hardware and accessories in North America for approximately $44.0 million, including $37.3 million in cash, subject
to purchase price adjustments, and up to an additional $6.7 million, subject to the achievement of certain items, which were not met. In April 2011, we settled on the purchase price
adjustments and as a result the purchase price was lowered by $1.5 million. Consequently, the net purchase price after the settlement was $35.8 million. The financial results of this
business, which were previously reported as our distribution business, have been classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The
assets and liabilities of this business are reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. See Note 2 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.









Intellectual Property

Our business is highly dependent on the creation, acquisition, licensing and protection of intellectual property. Some of the intellectual property
rights we have created or acquired for our internally-owned portfolio of brands are:BioShock,Bully,Carnival Games,The Darkness,Grand Theft Auto,L.A. Noire,Mafia,Manhunt,Max Payne,Midnight Club,Red Dead,Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis,Sid Meier's Civilization,Sid Meier's
Pirates!,Spec Ops, andTop Spin. We believe that content ownership
facilitates our internal product development efforts and maximizes profit potential. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as
well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Although we generally do not hold any patents, we obtain trademark and copyright registrations for many of our
products.

We
also enter into content license agreements, such as those with sports leagues and players associations, movie studios and performing talent, music labels and musicians. These licenses are typically
limited to use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, we license and include console manufacturer technology in our products on a non-exclusive basis,
which allows our games to be played on their respective hardware systems.

Manufacturing

Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo either manufacture or control selection of approved manufacturers of software products sold for use on their respective
hardware platforms. We place a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo and then send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer,
together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games are generally shipped within two to three
weeks of receipt of our purchase order and all materials.

Production
of PC software is performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our specifications and includes CD-ROM / DVD-ROM pressing, assembly of components, printing of
packaging and user manuals and shipping of finished goods. We send software code and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and
packaging designs to the manufacturers. Games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order.

We
occasionally experience difficulties or delays in the manufacture of our titles; however such delays have not significantly harmed our business to date. We have not experienced material delays due
to manufacturing defects. Our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty.

Sales

We sell software titles to retail outlets in North America, Europe and Asia through direct relationships with large retail customers and third-party
distributors. Our customers in North America include leading mass merchandisers such as Wal-Mart; specialty retailers such as GameStop; electronics stores such as Best Buy; toy stores such
as Toys "R" Us; national and regional drug stores; rental outlets; and supermarket and discount store chains. Our European customers include Game, GameStop, GEM Distribution and Media Markt. We have
sales operations in Asia, Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We
are dependent on a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 accounted
for approximately 43.9% of our net revenue, with GameStop and Wal-Mart accounting for 19.0% and 10.7%, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our net revenue
during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.

We
also digitally distribute our titles, downloadable content and micro-transactions direct to consoles and PCs, including smartphones and tablets. We view digital distribution as an important growth
opportunity









for
our industry and Company; however, we continue to expect that packaged goods and traditional retailers will be the primary channel for the sale of our products for the foreseeable future.

Marketing

Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize consumer interest in our titles, promote brand name recognition of our franchises,
assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles.

We
market titles by:

•

Implementing public relations campaigns, using print and online advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor
advertising. We believe that we label and market our products in accordance with the applicable principles and guidelines of the Entertainment Software Rating Board, or the ESRB, an independent
self-regulatory body that assigns ratings and enforces advertising guidelines for the interactive software industry.

•

Satisfying certain shelf life and sales requirements under our agreements with hardware manufacturers in order to qualify
for Sony's Greatest Hits Programs and Microsoft's Platinum Hits Program. In connection with these programs, we receive manufacturing discounts from Sony and Microsoft.

•

Stimulating continued sales by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times during the life
of a product. Price concessions may occur at any time in a product's life cycle, but typically occur three to nine months after a product's initial launch. During the fiscal years ended
March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, five months ended March 31, 2010 and fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, price concessions to retailers amounted to $86.0 million,
$59.9 million, $61.1 million, $53.2 million and $49.4 million, respectively. In certain international markets, we also provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product
sales.

•

Employing various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including social media,
in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct mail, co-operative advertising, as well as attendance at trade shows.

In
addition to our media, retail and public relations campaigns, an important part of our marketing strategy leverages evolving business models, such as downloadable add-on content for our
front line titles. Add-on content generates incremental revenues and also helps to prolong consumer engagement with our titles, which extends the life of each new release and enhances the
value of our franchises. As of March 31, 2012, we had a sales and marketing staff of 283 people.

Product Procurement

We procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase orders based on our assessment of market demand, as well as
pre-orders from retailers. We carry inventory quantities that we believe are necessary to provide rapid response to retailer orders. We utilize electronic data interchange with many of our
customers to enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders and receiving payments.

Competition

In our publishing business, we compete with:

•Companies that range in size and cost structure from very small with limited resources to very large companies with
greater financial, marketing and technical personnel and other resources than ours, including Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts and THQ, and international companies, such as Capcom, Konami,
Namco-Bandai, SEGA, Square Enix and Ubisoft.









•Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo for licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software, each of which
is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. Each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive
advertising campaigns.•Other software, hardware, entertainment and media for limited retail shelf space and promotional resources. The
competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional
support.•Other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio, online computer programs and other forms of
entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.

Competition
in the entertainment software industry is based on innovation, features, playability, and product quality; brand name recognition; compatibility with popular platforms; access to
distribution channels; price; marketing; and customer service. Our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing. Competition for our titles is
influenced by the timing of competitive product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our
titles at retail stores.

Trends and Factors Affecting our Business

Product Release Schedule.Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. OurGrand Theft
Autoproducts in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales ofGrand
Theft Autoproducts generated approximately 13.8% of the Company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The timing of ourGrand
Theft Autoreleases varies significantly, which in turn may affect our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis.

Economic Environment and Retailer Performance.

Hardware Platforms.The majority of our products are made for the hardware platforms developed by three companies—Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo.
Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Segment and Geographic Information," discloses that Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo hardware platforms comprised approximately 89.4% of the
Company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The success of our business is dependent upon the consumer acceptance of these platforms and the continued
growth in the installed base of these platforms. When new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software based on older platforms declines, which may negatively









affect
our business. Additionally, our development costs are generally higher for titles based on new platforms, and we have limited ability to predict the consumer acceptance of the new platforms,
which may affect our sales and profitability. As a result, we believe it is important to focus our development efforts on a select number of titles, which is consistent with our strategy.

Online Content and Digital Distribution.The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery
methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and services. A number of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct
digital download through the Internet (from websites
we own and others owned by third-parties). We also offer downloadable add-on content to our packaged goods titles. In addition, in July 2011, we launched our first social gaming
experience,Sid Meier's Civilization World, for Facebook, and we have several initiatives underway to develop online games primarily for Asian markets.
We expect online delivery of games and game services to become an increasing part of our business over the long-term.

International Operations

International sales are a significant part of our business. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, five months ended
March 31, 2010 and fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, approximately 45.6%, 45.5%, 40.4%, 35.6% and 42.8%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the United States. We have
also expanded our Asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks,
tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant effect on
our operating results. See Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Segment and Geographic Information

See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As of March 31, 2012, we had 2,235 full-time employees, of which 1,140 were employed outside of the United States. None of our
employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.









