Item 1.    Business

General

We are a leading developer, publisher and marketer of interactive entertainment for consumers around the globe. We develop and publish products
through our two wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K. Our products are currently designed for console gaming systems such as Sony's PlayStation®3 ("PS3") and PlayStation®4
("PS4"), Microsoft's Xbox 360® ("Xbox 360") and Xbox One® ("Xbox One"); and personal computers ("PC"), including smartphones and tablets. We deliver our products
through physical retail, digital download, online platforms and cloud streaming services.

As
a result of the widening popularity of interactive entertainment, the video game market is expected to continue to grow in coming years. Growth is expected to be driven by continuing increases in
the installed base of traditional consoles, along with the growing popularity of games played on emerging platforms such as tablets and smartphones, and online including through social networks.
According to the "Global Video Game Market" published byInternational Development Group("IDG") in
April 2015, the installed base of console systems that we support grew to 158.8 million units as of December 2014, an increase of 24.2 million units or 18% from December 2013, and
forecasts that the number will increase to an estimated 233.6 million units in calendar 2019. In addition, according to IDG, global sales from the console, handheld, PC software and digital
gaming segments that we support, inclusive of mobile gaming platforms and online, surpassed $65.0 billion in calendar 2014 and forecasts that their annual sales will increase to an estimated
$87.3 billion in calendar 2019.

The
demographics of the interactive entertainment industry audience have broadened significantly in recent years, with video games becoming an increasingly popular form of mainstream entertainment.
According to the "2015Essential Facts about the Computer and Video Game Industry" published by Entertainment Software Association ("ESA"), 51% of U.S.
households own at least one dedicated game console. The average game player is 35 years old and has been actively playing for 13 years.

Our
core strategy is to capitalize on the popularity of video games by developing and publishing high-quality interactive entertainment experiences across a range of genres. We focus on building
compelling franchises by publishing a select number of titles for which we can create sequels and incremental revenue opportunities through add-on content, microtransactions and online play. We
support the success of our products in the marketplace through innovative marketing programs and global distribution on all platforms and through all channels that are relevant to our target audience.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1993 and are headquartered in New York, New York with approximately 2,840 employees globally. Our telephone number is
(646) 536-2842









and
our website address iswww.take2games.com. We make all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") available free of charge on our website under
the caption "Corporate—SEC Filings." Included in these filings are our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports, which are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Our
website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports
without charge by writing to:

Take-Two
Interactive Software, Inc.622 BroadwayNew York, NY 10012Attn: Investor Relations

You
may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information
that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website iswww.sec.gov.

Strategy

Overview.

Support Label Structure to Target Distinct Market Segments.Our business consists of our wholly-owned labels Rockstar Games and 2K. Rockstar Games is the developer
and publisher of the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand,Grand Theft Auto, as well as other successful
franchises, includingL.A. Noire,Max Payne,Midnight
Club, andRed Dead. We expect Rockstar Games to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and create
groundbreaking entertainment by leveraging our existing franchises, as well as developing new brands. 2K publishes high-quality, owned and licensed titles across a range of genres including shooter,
action, role-playing, strategy, sports and family/casual. 2K is the publisher of a number of critically acclaimed, multi-million unit selling franchises includingBioShock,Borderlands,Carnival Games,Evolve, Mafia,NBA 2K,Sid Meier's Civilization,WWE 2KandXCOM Enemy Unknown. We expect 2K to continue to be a leader by building on its existing
brands, as well as by developing new franchises in the future.









Focus on Core Strength of Producing Select, High Quality Titles.We focus on publishing a select number of high-quality titles based on internally- owned and
developed intellectual properties, which typically provide higher margins than licensed products. We currently own the intellectual property rights to 20 proprietary brands. In addition, we will
selectively develop titles based on licensed properties, including sports, and also publish externally developed titles.

We
use a product investment review process to evaluate potential titles for investment, to review existing titles in development, and to assess titles after release to measure their performance in the
market and the return on our investment. We apply this process to all of our products, whether internally or externally developed. The product investment review process includes reviews of each
project at various stages of development by our executive management team and the senior management of our publishing labels, and includes coordination between our sales and marketing personnel before
the launch of titles. This disciplined approach to product investment is expected to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of our titles.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development teams and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select external developers based on their
track record and expertise in developing products in the same category or genre. One developer will generally produce the same game for multiple platforms and will also produce sequels to the original
game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe
increases the quality of our products.

Leverage Emerging Technologies, Platforms and Distribution Channels, Including Digitally Delivered Content.Interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms,
including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks, represent exciting opportunities to enhance our growth and profitability. In addition, the interactive entertainment
software industry is delivering a growing amount of content for traditional platforms through digital download on the Internet. We provide a variety of online delivered products and offerings.
Virtually all of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct digital download on the Internet (from websites we own and third-party
websites). We also aim to drive ongoing engagement and incremental revenues from recurrent consumer spending on our titles after their initial purchase, through downloadable offerings including add-on
content, microtransactions and online play. In addition, we are publishing an expanding variety of titles for tablets and smartphones, which are delivered to consumers through digital download via the
Internet. We will continue to invest in emerging opportunities in
mobile and online gameplay, particularly for our wholly-owned franchises, as well as downloadable content and microtransactions that enable gamers to pay to download additional content to enhance
their game playing experience.

Expand International Business.The global market for interactive entertainment continues to grow and we seek to increase our presence internationally, particularly
in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. We are continuing our expansion initiatives in the Asian markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and establish an
online gaming presence, especially in China and South Korea. We are a direct publisher in Japan and South Korea. While we retain title to all intellectual property, under license agreements local
publishers are responsible for localization of software content, distribution and marketing of the products in their respective local markets. We intend to continue to build upon our licensing
relationships and also continue to expand on finished goods distribution strategies to grow our international business.

Our Businesses

Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third-parties for our
benefit. Operating margins are dependent in part upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful products and to manage software product development









costs.
We have internal development studios located in Canada, China, Czech Republic, the United Kingdom and the United States. As of March 31, 2015, we had a research and development staff of
approximately 2,120 employees with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major current and prior generation consoles, handheld hardware platforms and PCs in multiple languages
and territories.

Agreements
with third-party developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make development payments, pay royalties based on product sales and to satisfy
other conditions. Development payments for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers based on software sales. Our agreements with third-party developers
generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making development
payments if specified development milestones are not satisfied. We also regularly monitor the level of development payments in light of the expected sales for the related titles.

We
continue to explore evolving business models such as downloadable content, online gaming and microtransactions. We expect to continue to generate incremental revenue opportunities through add-on
content, microtransactions and online play.

Rockstar Games.Software titles published by our Rockstar Games label are primarily internally developed. We expect Rockstar Games, our wholly-owned publisher of
theGrand Theft Auto,Max Payne,Midnight Club,Red Deadand
other popular franchises, to continue to be a leader in the action / adventure product category and to create groundbreaking entertainment
by leveraging our existing titles as well as by developing new brands. We believe that Rockstar has established a uniquely original, popular cultural phenomenon with itsGrand
Theft Autoseries, which is the interactive entertainment industry's most iconic and critically acclaimed brand and has sold-in over 210 million units. The latest
installment,Grand Theft Auto V, was released on Sony's PlayStation 3 and Microsoft's Xbox 360 in September 2013, on Sony's PlayStation 4 and
Microsoft's Xbox One in November 2014, and on the PC in April 2015.Grand Theft Auto Vincludes access toGrand Theft
Auto Online, which initially launched in October 2013. Rockstar Games is also well known for developing brands in other genres, including theLA
Noire, Bully andManhuntfranchises. Rockstar Games continues to expand on our established franchises by developing sequels,
offering downloadable add-on episodes, content and virtual currency, and releasing titles for smartphones and tablets.

2K.Our 2K label has published a variety of popular entertainment properties across all key platforms and across a range of genres including shooter, action,
role-playing, strategy, sports and family/casual entertainment. We expect 2K to continue to develop new, successful franchises in the future.

2K's
internally owned and developed franchises include the critically acclaimed, multi-million unit sellingBioShock,Mafia,Sid Meier's
CivilizationandXCOM Enemy Unknownseries. 2K also publishes highly successful externally developed franchises such asBorderlandsandEvolve. 2K's realistic sports simulation titles,
including our flagshipNBA 2Kseries which has been the
top-ranked NBA basketball video game for 14 years running and theWWE 2Kseries.

We
are continuing our expansion initiatives in the Asia markets, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and establish an online gaming presence, especially in China
and South Korea. 2K has secured a multi-year license from the NBA to develop an online version of theNBA 2Ksimulation game in China, Taiwan,
South Korea and Southeast Asia. In October 2012,NBA 2K Online, our free-to-play NBA simulation game co-developed by 2K and Tencent, launched
commercially on the Tencent Games portal in China. In addition, South Korean-based studio XLGAMES is presently developingCivilization Online, a new
online game for the Asian market, which is planned for commercial launch in Korea during our fiscal year 2016.









Intellectual Property

Our business is highly dependent on the creation, acquisition, licensing and protection of intellectual property. Some of the intellectual property
rights we have created or acquired for our internally-owned portfolio of brands are:BioShock,Bully,Carnival Games,Evolve,Grand Theft Auto,L.A. Noire,Mafia,Manhunt,Max
Payne,Midnight Club,Red Dead,Rockstar Games Presents
Table Tennis,Sid Meier's Civilization,Sid Meier's Pirates!,Spec Ops,Top SpinandXCOM. We believe that content
ownership facilitates our internal product development efforts and maximizes profit potential. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, patent, trademark and trade
secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution.

We
also enter into content license agreements, such as those with sports leagues, players associations, music labels and musicians. These licenses are typically limited to use of the licensed rights
in products for specific time periods. In addition, we license and include console manufacturer technology in our products on a non-exclusive basis, which allows our games to be played on their
respective hardware systems.

Manufacturing

Sony and Microsoft either manufacture or control selection of approved manufacturers of software products sold for use on their respective hardware
platforms. We place a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with Sony or Microsoft's approved replicator and then send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer,
together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games are generally shipped within two to three
weeks of receipt of our purchase order and all materials.

Production
of PC software is performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our specifications and includes CD-ROM / DVD-ROM pressing, assembly of components, printing of packaging and user
manuals and shipping of finished goods. We send software code and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs to the
manufacturers. Games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order. Our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty.

Sales

We sell software titles both physically and digitally in the United States, Europe, Canada, Latin America and Asia Pacific through direct
relationships with large retail customers and third-party distributors. Our customers in the United States include, among others, GameStop, Microsoft, Sony, Steam and Wal-Mart. Our international
customers include, among others, Amazon EU SARL, Exertis, Game, GameStop, and Media Markt. We have sales operations in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We
are dependent on a limited number of customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 accounted
for approximately 64.6% of our net revenue, with GameStop, Sony, Microsoft and Steam each accounted for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015.

We
also digitally distribute our titles, add-on content and microtransactions direct to consoles and PCs, including smartphones and tablets. We view digital distribution as an important growth
opportunity for our industry and Company; however, we continue to expect that packaged goods and traditional retailers will be a significant channel for the sale of our products for the foreseeable
future.









Marketing

Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize consumer interest in our titles, promote brand name recognition of our franchises,
assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers in connection with their own promotional
efforts.

We
market titles by:

•

Implementing public relations campaigns, using print and online advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor advertising. We
believe that we label and market our products in accordance with the applicable principles and guidelines of the Entertainment Software Rating Board, or the ESRB, an independent self-regulatory body
that assigns ratings and enforces advertising guidelines for the interactive software industry.

•

Satisfying certain shelf life and sales requirements under our agreements with hardware manufacturers in order to qualify for Sony's
Greatest Hits Programs and Microsoft's Platinum Hits Program. In connection with these programs, we receive manufacturing discounts from Sony and Microsoft.

•

Stimulating continued sales by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times during the life of a
product. Price concessions may occur at any time in a product's life cycle, but typically occur three to nine months after a product's initial launch. In certain international markets, we also provide
volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales. Sales returns, price protection and other allowances amounted to $51.5 million, $138.1 million, $109.1 million during the
fiscal years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

•

Employing various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including social media, in-store promotions and
point-of- purchase displays, direct mail, co-operative advertising, attendance at trade shows as well as product sampling through demonstration software distributed via the Internet or the digital
online services.

As
of March 31, 2015, we had a sales and marketing staff of approximately 345 people.

Product Procurement

We procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase orders based on our assessment of market demand. We carry inventory quantities
that we believe are necessary to provide rapid response to retailer orders. We utilize electronic data interchange with many of our customers to enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders
and receiving payments.

Competition

In our business, we compete with:

•Companies that range in size and cost structure from very small with limited resources to very large with greater financial, marketing
and technical personnel and other resources than ours, including Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts, and international companies, such as Capcom, SEGA, Square Enix, and Ubisoft.•Sony and Microsoft for the sale of interactive entertainment software. Each of these competitors is a large developer and marketer of
software for their own platforms, and has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns.•Other software, hardware, entertainment and media for limited retail shelf space and promotional resources. The competition is intense
among an increasing number of newly introduced









entertainment
software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support.•Other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio, social networking, online computer programs, mobile games
and other forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.

Competition
in the entertainment software industry is based on innovation, features, playability, and product quality; brand name recognition; compatibility with popular platforms; access to
distribution channels; price; marketing; and customer service. Our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing. Competition for our titles is
influenced by the timing of competitive product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our titles at retail
stores.

Trends and Factors Affecting our Business

Product Release Schedule.Our financial results are affected by the timing of our product releases and the commercial success of those titles. OurGrand Theft
Autoproducts in particular have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Sales ofGrand
Theft Autoproducts generated approximately 28.0% of the Company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The timing of ourGrand
Theft Autoreleases varies significantly, which in turn may affect our financial performance on a quarterly and annual basis.

Economic Environment and Retailer Performance.

Hardware Platforms.We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as Sony's PS3 and PS4
and Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Xbox One, which comprised approximately 81.4% of the Company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The success of our
business is dependent upon the consumer acceptance of these platforms and the continued growth in the installed base of these platforms. When new hardware platforms are introduced, demand for software
based on older platforms typically declines, which may negatively affect our business during the market transition to the new consoles. Additionally, we have limited ability to predict the consumer
acceptance of the new platforms, which may affect our sales and profitability. Accordingly, our strategy is to focus our development efforts on a select number of the









highest
quality titles for these platforms, while also expanding our offerings for emerging platforms such as mobile and online games.

Online Content and Digital Distribution.The interactive entertainment software industry is delivering a growing amount of content through digital online delivery
methods. We provide a variety of online delivered products and offerings. Virtually all of our titles that are available through retailers as packaged goods products are also available through direct
digital download via the Internet (from websites we own and others owned by third-parties). In addition, we aim to drive ongoing engagement and recurrent consumer spending on our titles after their
initial purchase by generating incremental revenues through downloadable offerings, including add-on content, microtransactions and online play. We also publish an expanding variety of titles for
tablets and smartphones, which are delivered to consumers through digital download via the Internet. Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Segment and Geographic Information,"
discloses that net revenue from digital online channels comprised approximately 42.0% of the Company's net revenue by distribution channel for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. We expect
online delivery of games and game offerings to become an increasing part of our business over the long-term.

International Operations

International sales are a significant part of our business. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 42.5%,
53.5% and 41.5%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the United States. We also have expanded our Asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our
revenue base. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and
international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant effect on our operating results. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Segment and Geographic Information

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,840 full-time employees, of which approximately 1,360 were employed outside of the United States.
None of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.









