Item 1. Business

Overview

CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS Caremark”, the “Company”, “we” or “us”) is the largest pharmacy
health care provider in the United States. As a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we believe we can drive value for our customers by effectively managing pharmaceutical costs and improving health care outcomes through our pharmacy benefit
management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services®; approximately 7,000
CVS/pharmacy®retail stores; our retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic®; and our online pharmacy, CVS.com®.

In March 2007, we completed our merger with Caremark Rx,
Inc. (the “Caremark Merger”). Following the Caremark Merger, we changed our name to CVS Caremark Corporation and Caremark Rx, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary, Caremark Rx, L.L.C. (“Caremark”). The Caremark Merger brought
together the nation’s largest retail pharmacy chain and a leading pharmacy benefit manager. We believe the Caremark Merger has uniquely positioned our Company to deliver significant benefits to health plan sponsors through effective cost
management solutions and innovative programs that engage plan members and promote healthier and more cost-effective behaviors. In addition, the Caremark Merger has enhanced our ability to offer plan members and consumers expanded choice, greater
access and more personalized services.

Business Segments

During the third quarter of 2009, we made changes to our reportable segments to reflect changes that were made to the way our management evaluates the performance of operations, develops strategy and
allocates resources. This change involves recording certain administrative expenses previously recorded within the Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments in a new Corporate segment. The Corporate segment consists of costs primarily
associated with executive management, corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, corporate information technology and finance. This change had no impact on our consolidated results of operations. As a result of this change, the Company
has three segments: Pharmacy Services, Retail Pharmacy and Corporate. Our historical segment disclosures have been revised to conform to the current presentation.

During the third quarter of 2009, we also made a change to our Pharmacy Services segment as it relates to our intersegment activities (such as the Maintenance Choice®program). This change impacts the gross profit and operating profit lines within the Pharmacy Services segment.
Under the Maintenance Choice program, eligible members in plans sponsored by Pharmacy Services clients can elect to pick up their maintenance prescriptions at Retail Pharmacy segment stores instead of receiving them through the mail. When this
occurs, both the Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments now record the revenue, gross profit and operating profit on a standalone basis and corresponding intersegment eliminations are made. This change had no impact on our consolidated
results of operations.

Pharmacy Services Segment

The Pharmacy Services segment provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) services including mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, plan design and
administration, formulary management and claims processing. Our clients are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, managed care organizations and other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals
throughout the United States. In addition, through our SilverScript Insurance Company (“SilverScript”) and Accendo Insurance Company (“Accendo”) subsidiaries, we are a national provider of drug benefits to eligible beneficiaries
under the Federal Government’s Medicare Part D program. Currently, the pharmacy services business operates under the Caremark Pharmacy Services®, Caremark®, CVS
Caremark™, CarePlus CVS/pharmacy™, CarePlus™, RxAmerica®, AccordantCare®and TheraCom®names. As of December 31, 2009, the Pharmacy Services segment operated 49 retail specialty pharmacy stores, 18 specialty mail order pharmacies and six mail
service pharmacies located in 25 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia.







Our Business Strategy -Our business strategy centers on providing innovative pharmaceutical
solutions and quality client service in order to enhance clinical outcomes for our clients’ health benefit plan members while assisting our clients and their plan members in better managing overall healthcare costs. We produce
superior results for our clients and their plan members by leveraging our expertise in core PBM services, including (as described more fully below): plan design and administration, formulary management, drug purchasing arrangements,
mail order services, specialty pharmacy services, retail pharmacy network management services, Medicare Part D services and a broad array of clinical services.

In addition, as a result of the Caremark Merger, we are able to offer our clients and their plan members a variety of new programs and plan designs that benefit from our integrated information systems and
the ability of our more than 26,000 pharmacists, nurse practioners and physician assistants to interact personally with the many plan members who shop our stores every day. Through our multiple member touch points (retail stores, mail order and
specialty pharmacies, retail clinics, call centers and proprietary websites), we seek to engage plan members in behaviors that lower cost and improve healthcare outcomes. Examples of these programs and services include Maintenance Choice; new
compliance and persistency programs designed to ensure that patients take their medications in the proper manner; enhanced disease management programs that are targeted at managing chronic disease states; and a new ExtraCare Health Card program
(which offers discounts to eligible plan members on certain over-the-counter healthcare products sold in our CVS/pharmacy stores). In addition, we are working with our clients to (i) decrease unnecessary and expensive emergency room visits
by encouraging plan members to use MinuteClinic locations for everyday common ailments and (ii) create pilot programs that offer convenient unique services available at MinuteClinic such as injection training for specialty pharmacy
services.

While certain of these programs and services have already been adopted by many of our clients, others are in the formative stage
and require additional information system enhancements and/or changes in work processes. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to timing or benefits associated with certain of these programs.

Our Services -The PBM services we provide for our clients involve the design and administration of programs aimed at reducing the cost and improving
the safety, effectiveness and convenience of prescription drug use. These services are described more fully below.

Plan Design and
Administration- Our clients sponsor pharmacy benefit plans that facilitate the ability of eligible members in these plans to receive medications prescribed by their physicians. We assist our clients in designing pharmacy benefit plans that
minimize the costs to the client while prioritizing the welfare and safety of the clients’ members. We also administer these benefit plans for our clients and assist them in monitoring the effectiveness of these plans through frequent, informal
communications as well as through a formal annual client review.

We make recommendations to our clients encouraging them to design benefit
plans promoting the use of the lowest cost, most clinically appropriate drug. We believe that we help our clients control costs by recommending plans that encourage the use of generic equivalents of brand name drugs when such equivalents are
available. Our clients also have the option, through plan design, to further lower their pharmacy benefit plan costs by setting different member payment levels for different products on their drug lists.

Formulary Management- We utilize an independent panel of doctors, pharmacists and other medical experts, referred to as our Pharmacy and
Therapeutics Committee, to select drugs that meet the highest standards of safety and efficacy for inclusion on our drug lists. Our drug lists provide recommended products in numerous drug classes to ensure member access to clinically appropriate
alternatives under the client’s pharmacy benefit plan. To improve clinical outcomes for members and clients, we conduct ongoing, independent reviews of all drugs, including, but not limited to, those appearing on the drug lists and generic
equivalent products, as well as of our clinical programs. Many of our clients choose to adopt our drug lists as part of their plan design.







Discounted Drug Purchase Arrangements- We negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain
discounted acquisition costs for many of the products on our drug lists, and these negotiated discounts enable us to offer reduced costs to clients that choose to adopt our drug lists. The discounted drug purchase arrangements we negotiate typically
provide for our receiving discounts from established list prices in various ways. In that regard, these discounts generally take the form of a direct discount at the time of purchase, a discount for prompt payment of invoices or, when products are
indirectly purchased from a manufacturer (e.g., through a wholesaler or retail pharmacy/chain), a retroactive discount, or rebate. We also receive additional discounts under our wholesale contracts if we exceed contractually-defined annual purchase
volumes. We record these discounts, regardless of their form, as a reduction of our cost of revenues.

Prescription Management Systems- - We dispense prescription drugs both directly, through one of our mail service or specialty pharmacies, or through a network of retail pharmacies. All prescriptions, whether they are filled through one of our mail service pharmacies or through a
pharmacy in our retail network, are analyzed, processed and documented by our proprietary prescription management systems. These systems assist staff and network pharmacists in processing prescriptions by automating tests for various items,
including, but not limited to, plan eligibility, early refills, duplicate dispensing, appropriateness of dosage, drug interactions or allergies, over-utilization and potential fraud.

Mail Pharmacy Program- As of December 31, 2009, we operated six large, automated mail service pharmacies in the continental United States. Our clients or their prescribers submit
prescriptions, primarily for maintenance medications, to these pharmacies via mail, telephone, fax or the Internet. We also operate a network of smaller mail service specialty pharmacies described below. Our staff pharmacists review mail service
prescriptions and refill requests with the assistance of our prescription management systems. This review may involve communications with the prescriber and, with the prescriber’s approval, can result in generic substitution, therapeutic
interchange or other actions designed to reduce cost or to improve quality of treatment.

Specialty Pharmacy- Our specialty pharmacies
support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. As of December 31, 2009, our specialty pharmacies were comprised of 18 specialty mail order pharmacies located throughout the United States and are used for delivery of
advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic diseases and disorders. Through our TheraCom subsidiary, we provide new product launch services for manufacturers of specialty drugs. Substantially all of these pharmacies have been
accredited by the Joint Commission, which is an independent, not-for-profit organization which accredits and certifies more than 17,000 health care organizations and programs in the United States. As of December 31, 2009, the Company operated a
network of 49 retail specialty pharmacy stores, which operate under the CarePlus CVS/pharmacy name. These stores average 2,000 square feet in size and sell prescription drugs and a limited assortment of front store items such as alternative
medications, homeopathic remedies and vitamins.

Onsite Pharmacies- We also operate a limited number of small pharmacies located at
client sites under the CarePlus CVS/pharmacy, CVS/pharmacy or CarePlus name, which provide members with a convenient alternative for filling their prescriptions.

Retail Pharmacy Network- We maintain a national network of approximately 64,000 retail pharmacies including CVS/pharmacy stores. When a customer fills a prescription in a retail pharmacy, the
pharmacy sends prescription data electronically to us from the point-of-sale. This data interfaces with our proprietary prescription management systems, which verify relevant customer data, including eligibility and member information, and perform a
drug utilization review to determine clinical appropriateness and safety in addition to confirming that the pharmacy will receive payment for the prescription.

Medicare Part D Services- We participate in the administration of the drug benefit added to the Medicare program under Part D of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act
of 2003 (“MMA”) (the “Medicare Drug Benefit”) through the provision of PBM services to our health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as Medicare Part D prescription drug plans (“PDP”). We also
participate (i) by







offering Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits through our subsidiaries, SilverScript and Accendo, which have been approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), as
PDPs, and (ii) by assisting employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS in order for them to
obtain the subsidy.

Clinical Services- We offer multiple clinical programs and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and
health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner. Our programs are primarily designed to target safety, inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events that negatively impact
members’ health and the client’s pharmacy and medical spend. In this regard, we offer various utilization management, medication management, adherence and counseling programs to complement the client’s plan design and clinical
strategies.

Disease Management Programs- Our clinical services utilize advanced protocols and offer clients convenience in working
with health care providers and other third parties. Our AccordantCare health management programs include integrated rare disease management programs, which cover diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson’s disease, seizure disorders and
multiple sclerosis. The majority of these integrated programs are accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (“NCQA”), a private, not-for-profit organization that evaluates, accredits and certifies a wide range of health
care organizations. In addition, we have entered into a strategic alliance with Alere, L.L.C. for the management of our common disease management program offerings, which cover such chronic diseases as asthma, diabetes, congestive heart failure and
coronary artery disease.

Quality Assurance- We have adopted and implemented clinical quality assurance procedures as well as policies
and procedures to help ensure regulatory compliance under our quality assurance programs. Each new mail service prescription undergoes a sequence of safety and accuracy checks and is reviewed and verified by a registered pharmacist before shipment.
We also analyze drug-related outcomes to identify opportunities to improve the quality of care.

Pharmacogenomic Services- In December
2009, we acquired a majority interest in Generation Health, Inc., a genetic benefit management company, that will allow us to expand our offering of pharmacogenomic clinical and testing services to our PBM clients. Pharmacogenomics is the study of
how genetic makeup affects an individual’s response to drug therapies. Through genetic testing, doctors are able to evaluate a patient’s genetic makeup to determine the effectiveness of specific drugs, drug dosages and drug combinations.
Through this relationship, we expect to use genetic testing to apply greater precision to client prescription management, with the goal of improving individual health outcomes and reducing overall medical costs. We expect to begin to offer these
services to clients during 2010.

Information Systems -We currently operate multiple information systems platforms to support our
Pharmacy Services segment. These information systems incorporate architecture that centralizes the data generated from filling mail service prescriptions, adjudicating retail pharmacy claims and fulfilling other PBM clients’ service contracts.

Clients -Our clients are primarily sponsors of health benefit plans (employers, unions, government employee groups, insurance
companies and managed care organizations) and individuals located throughout the United States. We provide pharmaceuticals to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients and utilize our information systems to perform safety checks,
drug interaction screening and generic substitution. We generate substantially all of our Pharmacy Services segment net revenue from dispensing prescription drugs to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, we managed approximately 660 million prescriptions for individuals from over 3,000 organizations.







Competition -We believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include: (i) the
ability to negotiate favorable discounts from drug manufacturers; (ii) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from, and access to, retail pharmacy networks; (iii) responsiveness to clients’ needs; (iv) the ability to
identify and apply effective cost management programs utilizing clinical strategies; (v) the ability to develop and utilize preferred drug lists; (vi) the ability to market PBM products and services; (vii) the commitment to provide
flexible, clinically-oriented services to clients; and (viii) the quality, scope and costs of products and services offered to clients and their members. The Pharmacy Services segment competes with a number of large, national PBM companies,
including Medco Health Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts, Inc., as well as many smaller local or regional PBMs. We also compete with several large health insurers/managed care plans (e.g., UnitedHealthcare, Aetna and CIGNA) and retail pharmacies,
which have their own PBM capabilities, as well as with several other national and regional companies which provide services similar to ours.

Retail Pharmacy Segment

As of December 31, 2009, the Retail Pharmacy segment included 7,025 retail drugstores, of which
6,964 operated a pharmacy, our online retail website, CVS.com, and our retail health care clinics. The retail drugstores are located in 41 states and the District of Columbia operating primarily under the CVS/pharmacy name. We currently operate in
91 of the top 100 U.S. drugstore markets and hold the number one or number two market share in 68 of these markets. CVS/pharmacy stores sell prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, which we refer to as “front
store” products. Existing retail stores range in size from approximately 8,000 to 25,000 square feet, although most new stores range in size from approximately 10,000 to 13,000 square feet and typically include a drive-thru pharmacy. During
fiscal 2009, we filled approximately 615 million retail prescriptions, or approximately 18% of the U.S. retail pharmacy market.

As of
December 31, 2009, we operated 569 retail health care clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia under the MinuteClinic name, of which 557 were located within CVS/pharmacy stores. The clinics utilize nationally recognized medical
protocols to diagnose and treat minor health conditions and are staffed by board-certified nurse practitioners and physician assistants.

Our Business Strategy -Our goal is to be the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. We believe that ease of use means convenience for the time-starved customer. As such, our operating strategy is to provide a broad
assortment of quality merchandise at competitive prices using a retail format that emphasizes service, innovation and convenience (easy-to-access, clean, well-lit and well stocked). One of the keys to our strategy is technology, which allows us to
focus on constantly improving service and exploring ways to provide more personalized product offerings and services. We believe that continuing to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and
adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customers’ needs and preferences is very important to our ability to continue to improve customer satisfaction.

Our Products -A typical CVS/pharmacy store sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of high-quality, nationally advertised brand name and private label merchandise. Front store categories
include over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, film and photo finishing services, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods. We purchase our merchandise from numerous manufacturers and distributors. We believe that
competitive sources are readily available for substantially all of the products we carry and the loss of any one supplier would not have a material effect on the business. Consolidated net revenues by major product group are as follows:



Percentage of Net Revenues(1)200920082007Prescription drugs68%68%68%Over-the-counter and personal care111313Beauty/cosmetics544General merchandise and other161515100%100%100%



(1)Percentages are estimates based on store point-of-sale data.







Pharmacy -

®

TM

; our touch-tone telephone reorder system, Rapid Refill

TM

; and our online business, CVS.com.

Front Store -Front store revenues benefited from our strategy to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise
to match our customers’ needs and preferences. A key component of our front store strategy is our ExtraCare card program, which is helping us continue to build our loyal customer base. The ExtraCare program is one of the largest and most
successful retail loyalty programs in the United States. In addition, the ExtraCare program allows us to balance our marketing efforts so we can reward our best customers by providing them automatic sale prices, customized coupons, ExtraBucks®rewards and other benefits. Another component of our front store strategy is our unique product offerings, which
include a full range of high-quality CVS brand and proprietary brand products that are only available through CVS. We currently carry over 4,300 CVS brand and proprietary brand products, which accounted for approximately 17% of our front store
revenues during 2009.

Store Development -The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a major role in our
continued growth and success. Our store development program focuses on three areas: entering new markets, adding stores within existing markets and relocating stores to more convenient, freestanding sites. During 2009, we opened 178 new retail
pharmacy stores, relocated 109 stores and closed 76 stores. During the last five years, we opened more than 1,400 new and relocated stores, and acquired approximately 1,200 stores. During 2010, we expect to open between 250 and 300 new or relocated
stores. We believe that continuing to grow our store base and locating stores in desirable geographic markets are essential components to compete effectively in the current managed care environment. As a result, we believe that our store development
program is an integral part of our ability to maintain our leadership position in the retail drugstore industry.

MinuteClinic -As of
December 31, 2009, we operated 569 MinuteClinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia. 557 of these locations were located in CVS/pharmacy stores. MinuteClinics are staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants who
utilize nationally recognized protocols to diagnose and treat minor health conditions, perform health screenings and deliver vaccinations. Many locations have also begun treating a variety of chronic conditions. Insurers value MinuteClinic
because it provides a high level of care at a competitive price, in many cases offering an attractive alternative to the far more expensive emergency room. As result, visits paid for by employers, health insurers or other third parties
accounted for more than 80% of MinuteClinics’ total revenues in 2009.







Information Systems -

Customers -Managed care and other third party plans accounted for 96.5% of our 2009 pharmacy revenues.
Since our revenues relate to numerous payors, including employers and managed care organizations, the loss of any one payor should not have a material effect on our business. No single customer accounts for 10% or more of our total revenues. We also
fill prescriptions for many government funded programs, including State Medicaid plans and Medicare Part D drug plans. Our contracts with such government funded programs are subject to renegotiation of reimbursement rates. See “Government
Regulation – Reimbursement” and Item 1A., “Risk Factors –Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our businesses.”

Seasonality -The majority of our revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, are generally not seasonal in nature. However, front store revenues tend
to be higher during the December holiday season. For additional information, we refer you to the Note “Quarterly Financial Information” on page 71 in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which
section is incorporated by reference herein.

Competition -The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. We believe that we
compete principally on the basis of: (i) store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and variety and (iv) price. In each of the markets we serve, we compete with independent and
other retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, convenience stores, pharmacy benefit managers and other mail order prescription providers, discount merchandisers, membership clubs, health clinics and Internet pharmacies.

Corporate Segment

Our Corporate segment
provides management and administrative services to support the overall operations of the Company. The Corporate segment consists of certain aspects of our executive management, corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, corporate
information technology and finance departments.

Working Capital Practices

We fund the growth of our business through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper and long-term borrowings. For additional information
on our working capital practices, we refer you to the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources” on page 33 in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which section is incorporated by reference
herein. The majority of our non-pharmacy revenues are paid in cash, or by debit and by credit cards, while managed care and other third party insurance programs, which typically settle in less than 30 days, represented approximately 98.5% of our
consolidated pharmacy revenues in 2009. Our customer returns are not significant.

Associate Development

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 211,000 associates, which included more than 26,000 pharmacists, nurse practitioners and physician
assistants. In addition, approximately 84,000 associates were







part-time employees who work less than 30 hours per week. To deliver the highest levels of service to our customers, we devote considerable time and attention to our people and service standards.
We emphasize attracting and training, knowledgeable, friendly and helpful associates to work in our stores, clinics and throughout our organization.

Intellectual Property

We have registered or applied to register a variety of trademarks, service marks and trade names used in
our business. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value in our Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments. We are not aware of any facts that could materially impact our continuing use of any of our intellectual property.

Government Regulation

Overview -

Among the existing federal and state laws and regulations that affect aspects of our business are the following:

Anti-Remuneration Laws -







In April 2003, the OIG issued Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the “OIG
Guidance”). In the OIG Guidance, the OIG identifies potential risk areas for pharmaceutical manufacturers and also discusses a number of traditional relationships between pharmaceutical manufacturers and PBMs, such as discount payments, service
offerings and data sales, and recommends that such relationships be structured wherever possible to fit within an applicable safe harbor.

Antitrust and Unfair Competition -The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTCA”) to investigate and prosecute practices that are “unfair
trade practices” or “unfair methods of competition.” Relief under the FTCA can encompass equitable relief and consumer redress. In addition, numerous lawsuits have been filed throughout the United States against pharmaceutical
manufactures and/or PBMs under various state and federal antitrust and unfair competition laws challenging, among other things: (i) brand drug pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, (ii) the maintenance of retail pharmacy
networks by PBMs, and (iii) various other business practices of PBMs. To the extent that we appear to have actual or potential market power in a relevant market, our business arrangements and practices may be subject to heightened scrutiny from
an anti-competitive perspective and possible challenge by state or federal regulators or private parties. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for further information.

Comprehensive PBM Regulation -Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities in a comprehensive manner has been introduced or enacted in a number of states. This legislation varies in scope and
often contains provisions that: (i) impose certain fiduciary duties upon PBMs to clients and plan members; (ii) require PBMs to remit to clients or their plan members certain rebates, discounts and other amounts received by PBMs related to
the sale of drugs; (iii) regulate product substitution and intervention; and/or (iv) impose broad disclosure obligations upon PBMs to clients and their plan members. To the extent states or other government entities enact legislation
regulating PBMs that survive legal challenges to their enforceability, such legislation could adversely impact our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms in locations where the legislation is in effect.

In addition, certain quasi-regulatory organizations, including the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (“NAIC”) have issued model regulations or may propose future regulations concerning PBMs and/or PBM activities. Similarly, credentialing organizations such as NCQA and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission
(“URAC”) may establish voluntary standards regarding PBM activities. For example, URAC has issued PBM accreditation standards for PBMs serving the commercially insured market, and Caremark is currently accredited as a PBM by URAC. While
the actions of these quasi-regulatory or standard-setting organizations do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their requirements or recommendations and influence client requirements for PBM services. Moreover, any
standards established by these organizations could also impact our health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them.

In addition to
state statutes and regulations, we are also subject to state common laws to the extent applied to PBMs through judicial interpretation or otherwise. Potential common law claims could involve, for example, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive
fraud, fraud or unjust enrichment. The application of these common laws to PBMs and/or PBM activities could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms.

Consumer Protection Laws -The Federal Government and most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations, lawsuits
and multi-state settlements relating to, among other matters, financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with therapeutic interchange programs. In addition, the FTCA bars unfair methods of competition and unfair
or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. The Federal Postal Service Act generally prohibits the mailing of, and billing for, unordered merchandise. The FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule also imposes extensive requirements and
restrictions in connection with telemarketing, which applies to plans or programs to induce the purchase of goods or services by consumers. (See the Telemarketing and Other Outbound Calls section below for further disclosures.)







Corporate Integrity Agreements -In September 2005, Caremark’s subsidiary, AdvancePCS (now known
as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.), entered into a settlement agreement with the federal government relating to certain alleged PBM business practices, pursuant to which AdvancePCS agreed, among other things, to adhere to certain business practices pursuant to
a consent order and to maintain a compliance program in accordance with a corporate integrity agreement entered into with the OIG for a period of five years. Certain requirements of the AdvancePCS corporate integrity agreement are also applicable to
our other PBM subsidiaries.

In March 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the federal government and a number of states
related to the dispensing of the generic drug ranitidine at its retail pharmacies. At the same time, the Company entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG for a period of five years applicable to certain retail and mail service
operations of the Company.

Each corporate integrity agreement requires, among other things, maintenance of our compliance program, employee
training, specific reviews by an independent review organization and various government reporting obligations. Failure to meet our obligations under these corporate integrity agreements could result in stipulated financial penalties, and failure to
comply with material terms could lead to exclusion of our applicable business from participation in federal health care programs.

Contract
Audits -We are subject to audits of many of our contracts, including our PBM client contracts, our pharmacy provider agreements and our contracts relating to the Medicare Drug Benefit. Audits are typically conducted pursuant to certain
provisions in our contracts that grant audit rights and set forth applicable audit procedures. Because some of our contracts are with state or federal governments, audits of these agreements are often regulated by the federal or state agencies
responsible for administering federal or state benefits programs, including those which operate PDPs or Medicare Advantage organizations under the MMA. The audits generally focus on, among other things, compliance with the applicable terms of our
contracts and applicable legal requirements.

Disease Management Services Regulation -We provide or arrange for our customers to
receive clinical services in the form of disease management programs for common and rare medical conditions. Nurses, pharmacists and other clinicians, as needed, develop and implement these programs. State laws regulate the practice of medicine, the
practice of pharmacy and the practice of nursing, and clinicians engaged in a professional practice must satisfy applicable state licensing requirements.

Environmental Regulation -Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and other requirements pertaining to protection of the environment and public health,
including, for example, regulations governing the management of waste materials and waste waters. Governmental agencies on the federal, state and local levels have, in recent years, increasingly focused on the retail sector’s compliance with
such laws and regulations, and have at times pursued enforcement activities. There is also an increased interest by regulators in better managing photo processing and pharmaceutical wastes. We periodically receive information requests and notices of
potential noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations from governmental agencies, which are addressed on a case-by-case basis with the relevant agency.

ERISA Regulation -The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), provides for comprehensive federal regulation of certain employee pension and benefit plans,
including private employer and union sponsored health plans and certain other plans that contract with us to provide PBM services. In general, we assist plan sponsors in the administration of the prescription drug portion of their health benefit
plans, in accordance with the plan designs adopted by the plan sponsors. We do not believe that the conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with a plan sponsor to accept
limited fiduciary responsibility, such as for the adjudication of initial prescription drug benefit claims and/or the appeals of denied claims under a plan. We and other PBMs have been named in lawsuits alleging that we act as a fiduciary, as such
term is defined by ERISA, with respect to health benefit plans and that we have breached certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA.







ERISA fiduciaries may be held personally liable for entering into service contracts or arrangements, like
PBM contracts, on behalf of ERISA plans if the terms of the contract are not reasonable or if the service provider receives more than reasonable compensation for the services provided. In such cases, the service provider may also be required to
disgorge any unreasonable compensation received and may be subject to civil penalties imposed by the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”).

In November 2007, the DOL announced final revisions to Form 5500 and its related schedules effective for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2009. The revised Form 5500, which most pension and welfare plans subject to ERISA are
required to file, includes modifications to Schedule C on which plans are required to report compensation paid to service providers.

In
December 2009, the DOL also announced a new project to promulgate regulations under Section 408(b)(2) of ERISA. The regulations, which were previously issued in proposed form, could require service providers, including PBMs, to provide detailed
disclosure regarding all direct and indirect compensation to be received in connection with the services to be provided, as well as potential conflicts of interest.

We cannot be certain the extent to which newly issued disclosure regulations may apply to our business as the DOL has provided very little final guidance regarding what constitutes reportable compensation
under a PBM agreement.

State laws discussed in this Government Regulation section that may be applicable to us or to plan sponsors that are
our customers may be preempted in whole or in part by ERISA. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings.

False Claims and Fraudulent Billing Statutes -

qui tam

qui tam

In addition, federal and state governments have commenced numerous investigations of various pharmaceutical manufacturers, PBMs, pharmacies
and health care providers in recent years with respect to false claims, fraudulent billing and related matters. The federal government has entered into settlement agreements with several companies in the pharmaceutical services industry following
claims by the federal government that such parties violated the FCA by: (i) improperly marketing and pricing drugs; (ii) overstating the average wholesale prices of products; (iii) paying illegal remuneration to induce the purchase of
drugs; and/or (iv) failing to accurately report “best price” under the Medicaid program.

FDA Regulation -The United
States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) generally has authority to regulate drugs, drug classifications and drug promotional information and materials that are disseminated by a drug manufacturer or by other persons on behalf of a drug
manufacturer. We have operated a FDA-regulated repackaging facility in which we repackage certain drugs into the most common prescription quantities dispensed







from our mail service pharmacies. We intend to close this repackaging facility in April 2010. The FDA also may inspect facilities in connection with procedures implemented to effect recalls of
prescription drugs.

Formulary Regulation -

Managed Care Reform -Proposed legislation has been considered on both the federal and state level, and legislation has been enacted in several states, aimed primarily at providing additional rights and access to drugs to individuals
enrolled in managed care plans. This legislation may impact the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans sponsored by our PBM health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them. Some of these initiatives would, among
other things: (i) require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary; (ii) give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice if they have been denied care;
and/or (iii) mandate the content of the appeals or grievance process when a health plan member is denied coverage. Both the scope of the managed care reform proposals considered by Congress and state legislatures and reforms enacted by states
to date vary greatly, and the scope of future legislation that may be enacted is uncertain.

Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit -







being considered by Congress, the tax deductibility of the retiree drug subsidy payment would be eliminated. The Senate bill (H.R. 3590) would make this change effective in 2011 and the House
bill (H.R. 3962) beginning in 2013.

In October 2009, CMS issued proposed regulations affecting various aspects of the Part D program. Among
other things, the proposed regulations give CMS greater latitude to limit the number of Part D plans available by allowing it to eliminate plans with persistently low enrollment and plans that it views as poor performers based on certain CMS
performance criteria. It also shortens the period for Part D sponsors that acquire other Part D plans to merge the plans or otherwise change them so that their plan offerings remain substantially different. The proposed rule would also limit the
period for coordination of benefits to three years for all payers. Currently, the three-year period applies only to coordination of benefits with Medicaid plans.

The MMA also requires that Part D sponsors support electronic prescribing and comply with electronic prescribing standards issued by CMS. While electronic prescribing is voluntary for pharmacies and
prescribers, those pharmacies and prescribers that choose to conduct any of the electronic prescribing transactions are required to do so using the CMS standards, including standards for formulary and benefit transactions, medication history
transactions and fill status notification. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111–5) (“ARRA”), which was signed into law in February 2009, amended the Social Security Act to establish incentive payments to
eligible professionals and hospitals participating in the Medicare or Medicaid program that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health records (“EHR”) technology beginning in 2011. ARRA also provides for downward payment
adjustments beginning in 2015 for providers in the Medicare program that fail to adopt and meaningfully use certified EHR technology. Among the measures of meaningful use is the use of electronic prescribing. A proposed rule to implement the EHR
incentive program was issued in December 2009, and requires that 75% of permissible prescriptions be sent electronically in order to qualify for the incentive payments.

The Medicare Drug Benefit continues to attract a high degree of legislative and regulatory scrutiny, and the applicable government rules and regulations continue to evolve. Accordingly, it is possible
that legislative and regulatory developments could materially affect our Medicare Part D business or profitability.

Network Access
Legislation -A majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting the ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Certain “any willing provider” legislation may require us or our
clients to admit a non-participating pharmacy if such pharmacy is willing and able to meet the plan’s price and other applicable terms and conditions for network participation. These laws vary significantly from state to state in regard to
scope, requirements and application. ERISA plans and payors have challenged the application of such laws on the basis of ERISA preemption. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings. In addition,
the MMA contains an “any willing provider” requirement for pharmacy participation in the Medicare Drug Benefit, and CMS has interpreted this as requiring that a Medicare Part D sponsor, for each type of pharmacy in its network, allow
participation by any pharmacy that meets the applicable terms and conditions for participation. To the extent any state or federal any willing provider laws are determined to apply to us or to certain of our clients or to the pharmacy networks we
manage for our PBM clients, such laws could negatively impact the services and economic benefits achievable through a limited pharmacy provider network.

Some states also have enacted “due process” legislation that may prohibit the removal of a provider from a pharmacy network except in compliance with certain procedures. Other state legislation
prohibits days’ supply limitations or co-payment differentials between mail service and retail pharmacy providers. In addition, under Medicare Part D, CMS requires that if a Part D sponsor offers a 90-day supply at mail, it must allow retail
pharmacies to also offer a 90-day supply on the same terms.

Pharmacy Licensure and Regulation -We are subject to state and federal
statutes and regulations governing the operation of retail and mail pharmacies, repackaging of drug products, wholesale distribution, dispensing of







controlled substances and listed chemical products, and medical and controlled substance waste disposal. Federal statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and
adulteration of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances. Federal controlled substance laws require us to register our pharmacies, distribution centers and repackaging facility with the United States Drug Enforcement
Administration (“DEA”) and to comply with security, recordkeeping, inventory control, personnel and labeling standards in order to possess and dispense controlled substances and listed chemical products.

We also are subject to regulation by the DEA and state pharmacy boards in connection with our online pharmacies because we dispense prescription drugs
pursuant to refill orders received through our Internet websites, among other methods. Numerous state laws also exist affecting our receipt and processing of electronic prescription drug orders.

Certain violations of the federal controlled substances laws can subject the Company, its pharmacies and distribution centers, and individual pharmacy
personnel to criminal and civil penalties and can also result in administrative action by the DEA, including suspension or revocation of a pharmacy’s or distribution center’s registration to distribute controlled substances and/or listed
chemical products. State authorities and state boards of pharmacy similarly have the authority to impose both monetary penalties and disciplinary sanctions, including revocation of a pharmacy’s or individual pharmacist’s license to
dispense controlled substances, and these penalties and sanctions are in addition to sanctions imposed under the federal controlled substances laws. Certain violations of these federal and state legal requirements can also trigger other consequences
for the Company’s business and could potentially impact our eligibility to participate in federal health care programs. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for further information.

Other statutes and regulations may affect our mail service operations. For example, the FTC requires mail service sellers of goods generally to engage in
truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the products to be sold, to fill mail service orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. In addition, the United States Postal Service has statutory authority
to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail, and state licensing authorities may restrict the types of personnel who may work in mail service operations.

Our pharmacists and technicians are subject to state regulation of the profession of pharmacy, and our employees who are engaged in a professional practice
must satisfy applicable state licensing or registration requirements and comply with applicable professional standards. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject our licenses and permits and our employee licenses to disciplinary action
including fines, suspensions and/or revocations.

Plan Design Legislation -







Privacy and Confidentiality Requirements -

In addition to HIPAA, most states have enacted health care information confidentiality laws, which limit the disclosure of confidential medical information.
These state laws supersede HIPAA to the extent they are more protective of individual privacy than is HIPAA.

HIPAA also established national
standards for conducting certain health care transactions electronically (known as “standard transactions”), as well as national identifiers for employers and health care providers. The National Provider Identifier (“NPI”) Rule
requires that all health care providers that conduct standard transactions obtain an NPI, and that the NPI be used in any standard transaction where that health care provider’s identifier is required. Following the issuance of the NPI Rule,
certain states, such as Wisconsin and Minnesota, have enacted laws related to a prescriber’s DEA number. These state laws generally prohibit the use of a prescriber’s DEA number for purposes other than in connection with the prescribing of
a controlled substance.

In response to concerns about identity theft, many states have passed security breach notification laws, including
laws requiring notification to consumers of security breaches involving personal information. These laws generally require an entity conducting business in the state to notify consumers when their personal information has been, or is reasonably
believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person. In some cases, the law applies only to unencrypted computerized information, but in others it applies to personal information in any form. In addition to requiring notification to the
affected individuals without unreasonable delay, many state laws also require notification to government agencies, such as the state attorney general or consumer protection agencies.

In January 2009, we entered into separate settlement agreements with the FTC and the HHS Office for Civil Rights (“OCR”) resolving a joint investigation prompted by 2006 media reports of
disposal of patient information in dumpsters at a limited number of CVS/pharmacy locations. As part of the FTC settlement, we agreed to maintain appropriate enterprise-wide information security policies and procedures during the twenty year term of
the agreement. The FTC settlement also provides for periodic compliance monitoring by an external assessor. As part of the OCR settlement, we agree to maintain appropriate waste disposal policies and procedures, training and employee sanctions at
our retail stores. The OCR settlement has a three year term and provides for annual compliance monitoring by an external assessor.

In
February 2009, the President signed ARRA into law, which includes provisions relating to health information technology activities, such as e-prescribing and electronic health records, and contains revisions to existing federal privacy law. The
privacy law changes include new restrictions on the use of PHI without an individual’s written authorization, a new requirement to account for routine disclosures of PHI held in an electronic health record, a requirement to notify individuals
of breaches to their PHI, new enforcement rights of state attorneys







general, extension of the federal privacy and security law provisions and penalties to business associates of covered entities, and increased penalties for violations of the law. Since
several of the provisions contemplate future adoption of implementing regulations, we cannot at this time determine the extent to which these changes may apply to or impact our business.

Reimbursement -A portion of our net revenue is derived directly from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs, and we are therefore subject to, among other laws and
regulations, federal and state anti-remuneration laws, the Stark Law and/or federal and state false claims laws discussed elsewhere in this section. Sanctions for violating these federal and/or state laws may include, without limitation, criminal
and civil penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government health care programs. Also, we provide products and services to managed care entities that provide services to beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and
other government-sponsored health care programs, as well as employers that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy.

Under the MMA, the
Average Sales Price (“ASP”), has replaced AWP as the basis for reimbursing physicians, and sometimes pharmacies, for outpatient prescription drugs under Medicare Part B. For single source drugs, the payment equals 106 percent of the lesser
of: (i) the wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”) of the product; or (ii) the ASP of the product. ASP is the weighted average of a manufacturer’s sales to all purchasers in a given quarter, after certain pricing adjustments
such as discounts or rebates and excluding sales to certain government and other purchasers.

Further, the federal Medicaid rebate program
requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs purchased by state Medicaid programs. Manufacturers of brand name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of: (a) 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price
(“AMP”) paid by wholesalers for products distributed to the retail pharmacy class of trade or (b) the difference between AMP and the “best price” available to essentially any client other than the Medicaid program, with
certain exceptions. Investigations have been commenced by certain governmental entities that question whether “best price” was properly calculated, reported and paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. We are not responsible for
calculations, reports or payments of “best price”; however, these investigations could impact our ability to negotiate rebates from drug manufacturers.







In 2005, the DRA was signed into law by the President. The DRA sought to reduce federal spending by altering
the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs. These changes were expected to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. During 2007, CMS issued a final rule implementing provisions under the
DRA regarding prescription drugs under the Medicaid program. Among other things, the rule defines AMP and “best price,” and specifies the items that must be included and excluded in the calculation of each (the “AMP Rule”). In
October 2008, approximately ten months after the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia preliminarily enjoined CMS from implementing relevant portions of the AMP Rule, CMS issued a rule, subject to comment, which modified the definition of
multiple source drugs, a component of the AMP calculation. The proposed rule seeks to address one of the legal challenges on which the injunction was issued. However, opponents of this new rule have asserted that the revised definition continues to
be inconsistent with the DRA. In the event health care reform legislation is adopted, such legislation will likely include a provision to correct the definitional issues with the AMP. As a result of the above, we cannot predict the extent or timing
of implementation of the AMP Rule, its effect on Medicaid reimbursement or its impact on the Company.

Certain state Medicaid programs only
allow for reimbursement to pharmacies residing in the state or in a border state. While we believe that we can service our current Medicaid customers through our existing pharmacies, there can be no assurance that additional states will not enact
in-state dispensing requirements for their Medicaid programs. Some states have adopted legislation and regulations requiring that a pharmacy participating in the state Medicaid program give the state the “best price” that the pharmacy
makes available to any third party payor. These requirements are sometimes referred to as “most favored nation pricing” payment systems. Other states have enacted “unitary pricing” legislation, which mandates that all wholesale
purchasers of drugs within the state be given access to the same discounts and incentives. A number of states have also recently introduced legislation seeking to control drug prices through various statutory limits, rebates or discounts extending
to one or more categories of the state’s population.

Changes in reporting of AWP, or other adjustments that may be made regarding the
reimbursement of drug payments by Medicaid and Medicare, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and could impact our ability to negotiate discounts or rebates with manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs or retail pharmacies. In some
circumstances, such changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from MCOs that contract with government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits.

Reimportation -

Retail Clinics -States also regulate retail clinics operated by nurse practitioners or physician assistants through physician oversight, lab licensing and the prohibition of the corporate practice
of medicine. A number of states







have implemented or proposed laws that impact certain components of retail clinic operations such as physician oversight, signage, third party contracting requirements, bathroom facilities, and
scope of services. These laws and regulations may affect the operation of our owned and managed retail clinics.

Self-Referral Laws -The federal law commonly known as the “Stark Law” prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries for “designated health services” (which include, among other things, outpatient prescription drugs,
home health services and durable medical equipment and supplies) to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has a “financial relationship” and prohibits the entity receiving a prohibited referral
from presenting a claim to Medicare or Medicaid for the designated health service furnished under the prohibited referral. Possible penalties for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment, refund of amounts collected in violation of the
statute, civil monetary penalties and Medicare and Medicaid program exclusion. The Stark Law contains certain statutory and regulatory exceptions for physician referrals and physician financial relationships, including certain physician consulting
arrangements, fair market value purchases by physicians and the provision of electronic prescribing technology to physicians.

State statutes
and regulations also prohibit payments for the referral of individuals by physicians to health care providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship. Some of these state statutes and regulations apply to services reimbursed by
governmental as well as private payors. Violation of these laws may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of pharmacy or health care provider licenses, fines and criminal penalties. The laws and exceptions or safe harbors may
vary from the federal Stark Law and vary significantly from state to state. The laws are often vague, and, in many cases, have not been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies.

State Insurance Laws -Fee-for-service prescription drug plans and our PBM service contracts, including those in which we assume certain risk under performance guaranties or similar arrangements,
are generally not subject to insurance regulation by the states. However, if a PBM offers to provide prescription drug coverage on a capitated basis or otherwise accepts material financial risk in providing pharmacy benefits, laws and regulations in
various states may be applicable. Such laws may require that the party at risk become licensed as an insurer, establish reserves or otherwise demonstrate financial viability. Laws that may apply in such cases include insurance laws and laws
governing MCOs and limited prepaid health service plans.

Our SilverScript and Accendo PDPs each must be licensed as a risk-bearing entity
under applicable state laws or they must have obtained a waiver of the licensing requirement from CMS. Both SilverScript and Accendo are licensed in all states in which they offer PDPs and do not operate under any Part D waivers. As licensed
insurance companies, SilverScript and Accendo and their agents are subject to various state insurance regulations that generally require, among other things, maintenance of capital and surplus requirements, review of certain material transactions
and the filing of various financial, licensing and operational reports. Pursuant to the MMA, state insurance licensing, insurance agent/broker licensure and solvency laws and regulations are generally applicable to PDPs, but the application of other
state laws to the Medicare Drug Benefit are generally preempted by Medicare Part D to the extent that Medicare Part D regulates the issue.

Some states have laws that prohibit submitting a false claim or making a false record or statement in order to secure reimbursement from an insurance company. These state laws vary, and violation of them may lead to the imposition of civil
or criminal penalties. Additionally, several states have passed legislation governing the prompt payment of claims that requires, among other things, that health plans and payors pay claims within certain prescribed time periods or pay specified
interest penalties. These laws vary from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application, and it is not clear the extent to which they may apply to our clients or to us. Certain health plans and payors may be exempt from such laws on
the basis of ERISA preemption, but the scope of ERISA preemption is unclear.

State Prescription Drug Assistance Programs -Many states
have established or modified their drug assistance programs for the elderly so that they constitute qualified state pharmacy assistance programs (“SPAPs”) that







supplement the Medicare Drug Benefit. Payments by qualified SPAPs on behalf of a Medicare Part D enrollee are treated under Medicare Part D as if they were made by the enrollees themselves,
thereby counting towards the enrollees’ true out-of-pocket costs and helping them qualify for catastrophic coverage sooner. Part D plans are required to coordinate benefits with SPAPs, including allowing SPAPs to subsidize the Medicare Part D
premiums of their members and/or their Medicare Part D cost sharing. Some qualified SPAPs have also received permission from CMS to auto-assign their enrollees that do not choose their own Medicare Part D plans into PDPs.

Telemarketing and Other Outbound Calls -Certain federal and state laws give the FTC, Federal Communications Commission and state attorneys general
law enforcement tools to regulate telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound calls. These laws may require disclosures of specific information, prohibit misrepresentations, limit when consumers may be called, require consumer consent
prior to being called, require transmission of Caller ID information, prohibit certain abandoned outbound calls, prohibit unauthorized billing, set payment restrictions for the sale of certain goods and services and require the retention of specific
business records.

Third Party Administration and Other State Licensure Laws -Many states have licensure or registration laws
governing certain types of administrative organizations, such as preferred provider organizations, third party administrators and companies that provide utilization review services. Several states also have licensure or registration laws governing
the organizations that provide or administer consumer card programs (also known as cash card or discount card programs). The scope of these laws differs significantly from state to state, and the application of such laws to our activities often is
unclear.

Whistleblower Statutes -Certain federal and state laws, including the FCA, contain provisions permitting the filing ofqui tamor “whistleblower” lawsuits alleging violations of such laws. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring lawsuits on behalf of the federal or state government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the
government, and there is generally no minimum evidentiary or legal threshold required for bringing such a lawsuit. These lawsuits are typically filed under seal with the applicable federal or state enforcement authority, and such authority is
required to review the allegations made and to determine whether it will intervene in the lawsuit and take the lead in the litigation. If the government intervenes in the lawsuit and prevails, the whistleblower plaintiff filing the initial complaint
may share in any settlement or judgment. If the government does not intervene in the lawsuit, the whistleblower plaintiff may pursue the action independently. Because aqui tamlawsuit typically is filed under seal pending a government review
of the allegations, the defendant generally may not be aware of the lawsuit until the government determines whether or not it will intervene or until the lawsuit is otherwise unsealed, a process which may take years. See Item 3, “Legal
Proceedings,” for further information.

We believe that we are in material compliance with existing laws and regulations applicable to
our retail and PBM businesses. We have implemented standard operating procedures, internal controls and a compliance and integrity program designed to help ensure such compliance, and we monitor legislative and judicial developments that could
impact our business practices in an effort to ensure future compliance.

We can give no assurance, however, that our business, financial
condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on: (i) future enactment of new health care or other laws or regulations;
(ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, including the laws and regulations described in this Government Regulation section, as they may relate to our business or the pharmacy services or retail industry;
(iii) pending or future federal or state governmental investigations of our business or the pharmacy services or retail industry; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pendingqui tamlawsuit against us, whether sealed or unsealed, or in any futurequi tamlawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy
services or retail industry.







Available Information

CVS Caremark Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our corporate office is located at One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. Our common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “CVS.” General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company’s Web site athttp://info.cvscaremark.com. Our financial press releases and filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission are available free of charge within the Investors section of our Web site athttp://www.cvscaremark.com/investors. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements
and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that Web site ishttp://www.sec.gov.

