Item 1. Business



Overview



CVS Health Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (collectively “CVS Health,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”), is a pharmacy innovation company helping people on their path to better health. At the forefront of a changing health care landscape, the Company has an unmatched suite of capabilities and the expertise needed to drive innovations that will help shape the future of health.



We are currently the only integrated pharmacy health care company with the ability to impact consumers, payors, and providers with innovative, channel-agnostic solutions. We have a deep understanding of their diverse needs through our unique integrated model, and we are bringing them innovative solutions that help increase access to quality care, deliver better health outcomes, and lower overall health care costs.



Through our 7,800 retail pharmacies, more than 900 walk-in medical clinics, a leading pharmacy benefits manager with more than 65 million plan members, and expanding specialty pharmacy services, we enable people, businesses, and communities to manage health in more effective ways. We are delivering break-through products and services, from advising patients on their medications at our CVS/pharmacy®locations, to introducing unique programs to help control costs for our clients at CVS/caremark, to innovating how care is delivered to our patients with complex conditions through CVS/specialty, or by expanding access to high-quality, low-cost care at CVS/minuteclinic.



We currently have three reportable segments: Pharmacy Services, Retail Pharmacy and Corporate.



Pharmacy Services Segment



The Pharmacy Services Segment provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) services, as described more fully below, to our clients consisting primarily of employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, health plans, Managed Medicaid plans, plans offered on the public and private exchanges, other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the United States. In addition, through our SilverScript Insurance Company (“SilverScript”) subsidiary, we are a national provider of drug benefits to eligible beneficiaries under the federal government’s Medicare Part D program. The Pharmacy Services Segment operates under the CVS/caremarkTMPharmacy Services, Caremark®, CarePlus CVS/pharmacy®, RxAmerica®, Accordant®, SilverScript®, Coram®CVS/specialtyTM, NovoLogix®and Navarro®Health Services names. As of December 31, 2014, the Pharmacy Services Segment operated27retail specialty pharmacy stores,11specialty mail order pharmacies andfourmail order dispensing pharmacies, and86branches, including approximately 70 ambulatory infusion suites, andsixcenters of excellence for infusion and enteral services, located in40states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our PBM filled or managed approximately 932 million prescriptions.



Pharmacy Services Business Strategy- Our business strategy centers on providing innovative pharmaceutical solutions and quality client service in order to help improve clinical outcomes for our clients’ health benefit plan members while assisting our clients and their plan members in better managing overall health care costs. Our goal is to produce superior results for our clients and their plan members by leveraging our expertise in core PBM services, including: plan design offerings and administration, formulary management, Medicare Part D services, mail order, specialty pharmacy and infusion services, retail pharmacy network management services, prescription management systems, clinical services, disease management services and medical spend management.



In addition, as a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we are able to offer our clients and their plan members a variety of programs and plan designs that benefit from our integrated systems and the ability of our more than 26,000 pharmacists, nurses, nurse practitioners and physician assistants to interact personally with the many plan members who shop our stores every day. Through our multiple member touch points (retail stores, mail order, infusion and specialty pharmacies, retail medical clinics, call centers, proprietary websites and mobile devices), we seek to engage plan members in behaviors that help lower cost and improve health care outcomes. Examples of these programs and services include: Maintenance Choice

®

, a program where eligible client plan members can elect to fill their maintenance prescriptions at our retail pharmacy stores for the same price as mail order; Pharmacy Advisor

®

, a program that facilitates face-to-face and telephone counseling by our pharmacists to help participating plan members with certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular conditions, to identify gaps in care, adhere to their prescribed medications and manage their health conditions; compliance and persistency programs designed to help ensure that patients take their medications in the proper manner; enhanced disease management programs that are targeted at managing chronic disease states; and an ExtraCare

®

Health Card program which offers discounts to eligible plan members on certain over-the-counter health care products sold in our CVS/pharmacy stores. In addition,










MinuteClinic®is an important and differentiated part of the enterprise that offers certain capabilities available to PBM members. Ways we are working with our clients include partnerships with health plan clients sponsoring patient centered medical homes, biometric screening opportunities, closing gaps in care, plan sponsored co-pay reductions to encourage use of MinuteClinic and onsite clinics at client corporate headquarters.



PBM Services- Our PBM services are described more fully below.



Plan Design Offerings and Administration- Our clients sponsor pharmacy benefit plans that facilitate the ability of eligible members in these plans to receive prescribed medications. We assist our clients in designing pharmacy benefit plans that help minimize the costs to the client while prioritizing the welfare and safety of the clients’ members and helping improve health outcomes. We also administer these benefit plans selected by our clients and assist them in monitoring the effectiveness of these plans through frequent, informal communications as well as through a formal annual client review.



We make recommendations to our clients helping them to design benefit plans promoting the use of the lower cost, clinically appropriate drug. We help our clients control costs by offering plan designs that encourage the use of generic equivalents of brand name drugs when such equivalents are available. Our clients also have the option, through plan design, to further lower their pharmacy benefit plan costs by setting different member payment levels for different products on their drug lists or “formularies”.



Formulary Management- We utilize an independent panel of doctors, pharmacists and other medical experts, referred to as our Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, to select drugs that meet the highest standards of safety and efficacy for inclusion on our formularies. Our formularies provide recommended products in numerous drug classes to ensure member access to clinically appropriate alternatives under the client’s pharmacy benefit plan. To help improve clinical outcomes for members and clients, we conduct ongoing, independent reviews of all drugs, including, but not limited to, those appearing on the formularies and generic equivalent products, as well as our clinical programs. Many of our clients choose to adopt our template formulary offerings as part of their plan design.



Medicare Part D Services- We participate in the administration of the drug benefit added to the Medicare program under Part D of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) through the provision of PBM services to our health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as Medicare Part D prescription drug plans (“PDP”) and by offering Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits through SilverScript, a PDP approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). We also assist employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy made available under the MMA by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS in order for them to obtain the subsidy.



Mail Order Pharmacy- As of December 31, 2014, we operatedfourmail order dispensing pharmacies in the United States. Plan members or their prescribers submit prescriptions or refill requests, primarily for maintenance medications, to these pharmacies via mail, telephone, fax, e-prescribing or the Internet. We also operate a network of smaller mail order specialty pharmacies described below. Our staff pharmacists review mail order prescriptions and refill requests with the assistance of our prescription management systems. This review may involve communications with the prescriber and, with the prescriber’s approval when required, can result in generic substitution, therapeutic interchange or other actions designed to help reduce cost and/or improve quality of treatment. These pharmacies have been awarded Mail Order Pharmacy accreditation from Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (“URAC”), a Washington DC-based health care accrediting organization that establishes quality standards for the health care industry.



Specialty Pharmacy

- Our specialty pharmacies support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. As of December 31, 2014, our specialty pharmacy operations included


specialty mail order pharmacies located throughout the United States that are used for delivery of advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic diseases and disorders. Substantially all of these pharmacies have been accredited by the Joint Commission, which is an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies more than 20,500 health care organizations and programs in the United States. These pharmacies have also been awarded Specialty Pharmacy accreditation from URAC. As of December 31, 2014, the Company operated a network of


retail specialty pharmacy stores, which operate under the CarePlus CVS/pharmacy

®

and Navarro

®

Health Services names. These stores average 2,600 square feet in size and sell prescription drugs and a limited assortment of front store items such as alternative medications, homeopathic remedies and vitamins. In January 2014, we enhanced our offerings of specialty infusion services and began offering enteral nutrition services through Coram LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Coram”), which we acquired on January 16, 2014. Coram is one of the nation’s largest providers of comprehensive infusion services, caring for approximately 240,000 patients annually. In May 2014, we implemented Specialty Connect

TM

, which integrates our specialty pharmacy mail and retail capabilities, providing members with disease-state specific counseling from our experienced specialty pharmacists and the choice to bring their specialty prescriptions to a CVS/pharmacy










location. Whether submitted through our mail order pharmacy or at CVS/pharmacy, all prescriptions are filled through the Company’s specialty mail order pharmacies, so all revenue from this specialty prescription services program is recorded within the Pharmacy Services Segment. Members then can choose to pick up their medication at their local CVS/pharmacy or have it sent to their home through the mail.



Retail Pharmacy NetworkManagement- We maintain a national network of more than 68,000 retail pharmacies, consisting of approximately 41,000 chain pharmacies (which includes our CVS/pharmacy stores) and 27,000 independent pharmacies, in the United States, Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, Guam and the Virgin Islands. When a customer fills a prescription in a retail pharmacy, the pharmacy sends prescription data electronically to us from the point-of-sale. This data interfaces with our proprietary prescription management systems, which verify relevant plan member data and eligibility, while also performing a drug utilization review to help evaluate clinical appropriateness and safety and confirming that the pharmacy will receive payment for the prescription.



Prescription Management Systems- We dispense prescription drugs both directly, through one of our mail order or specialty pharmacies, or through a network of retail pharmacies, described above. All prescriptions processed through our systems, whether they are filled through one of our mail order dispensing pharmacies or through a pharmacy in our retail network, are analyzed, processed and documented by our proprietary prescription management systems. These systems assist staff and network pharmacists in processing prescriptions by automating review of various items, including, but not limited to, plan eligibility, early refills, duplicate dispensing, appropriateness of dosage, drug interactions or allergies, over-utilization and potential fraud.



Clinical Services- We offer multiple clinical programs and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner. Our programs are primarily designed to promote safety, and to help target inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events that negatively impact member health and client pharmacy and medical spend. In this regard, we offer various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement the client’s plan design and clinical strategies.



Disease Management Programs- Our clinical services utilize advanced protocols and offer clients convenience in working with health care providers and other third parties. Our Accordant®programs include integrated rare disease management programs, which cover diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson’s disease, seizure disorders and multiple sclerosis. The majority of these integrated programs are accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (“NCQA”), a private, not-for-profit organization that evaluates, accredits and certifies a wide range of health care organizations. They have also been awarded Case Management Accreditation from URAC.



Medical Pharmacy Management- We offer a technology platform that helps identify and capture cost savings opportunities for specialty drugs billed under the medical benefit, and that helps ensure appropriate clinical use of these drugs.



Pharmacy Services Information Systems- We currently operate a small number of claim adjudication platforms to support our Pharmacy Services Segment. However, the majority of our clients have migrated to one destination platform. These information systems incorporate architecture that centralizes the data generated from filling mail order prescriptions, adjudicating retail pharmacy claims and fulfilling other services we provide to PBM clients.



Pharmacy Services Clients- Our clients are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, health plans, Managed Medicaid plans and plans offered on public and private exchanges, other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals located throughout the United States. We provide pharmaceuticals to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients and utilize our information systems, among other things, to help perform safety checks, drug interaction screening and identify opportunities for generic substitution. We generate substantially all of our Pharmacy Services Segment net revenue from dispensing prescription drugs to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients. No single PBM client accounts for 10% or more of our annual consolidated revenues.



Pharmacy Services Seasonality- The majority of our Pharmacy Services Segment revenues are not seasonal in nature. However, our quarterly earnings and operating cash flows are impacted by the Medicare Part D benefit design and changes in the composition of our membership. The Medicare Part D standard benefit design results in coverage that varies with a member's cumulative annual out-of-pocket costs. The benefit design generally results in plan sponsors sharing a greater portion of the responsibility for total prescription drug costs in the early part of the year. As a result, the PDP plan pay percentage or benefit ratio generally decreases and operating profit generally increases as the year progresses.












Pharmacy Services Competition- We believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include: (i) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from drug manufacturers; (ii) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from, and access to, retail pharmacy networks; (iii) responsiveness to clients’ needs; (iv) the ability to identify and apply effective cost management programs utilizing clinical strategies; (v) the ability to develop and utilize preferred formularies; (vi) the ability to market PBM products and services; (vii) the commitment to provide flexible, clinically-oriented services to clients; (viii) the quality, scope and costs of products and services offered to clients and their members, and (ix) operational excellence in delivering services. The Pharmacy Services Segment has a significant number of competitors offering PBM services (e.g., Express Scripts, OptumRx, Catamaran, Prime Therapeutics, MedImpact and Humana) including large, national PBM companies, PBMs owned by large national health plans and smaller standalone PBMs.



Retail Pharmacy Segment



As of December 31, 2014, the Retail Pharmacy Segment included7,822retail drugstores, of which7,765operated a pharmacy, our online retail pharmacy websites, CVS.com®, Navarro.comTMand Onofre.com.brTM,17onsite pharmacy stores and our retail health care clinics. The retail drugstores are located in44states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Brazil operating primarily under the CVS/pharmacy®, CVS®, Longs Drugs®, Navarro Discount Pharmacy®and Drogaria OnofreTMnames. We currently operate in 98 of the top 100 United States drugstore markets and hold the number one or number two market share in 88 of these markets. The Retail Pharmacy Segment sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of over-the-counter and personal care products, beauty and cosmetic products, and general merchandise, which we refer to as “front store” products. Existing retail stores range in size from approximately 5,000 to 30,000 square feet, although most new stores range in size from approximately 8,000 to 13,000 square feet and typically include a drive-thru pharmacy. During 2014, we filled 756 million retail prescriptions (counting 90-day prescriptions as one prescription), or approximately 21% of the United States retail pharmacy market. In 2014, our retail drugstores became the first pharmacies in the nation to receive Community Pharmacy Accreditation from URAC.



Retail Pharmacy Business Strategy- Our integrated pharmacy services model has enhanced the ability of our retail pharmacy stores to expand customer access to care while helping to lower overall health care costs and improve health outcomes. In that regard, the role of our retail pharmacist is shifting from primarily dispensing prescriptions to also providing services, including flu vaccinations as well as face-to-face patient counseling with respect to adherence to drug therapies, closing gaps in care and recommending more cost effective drug therapies. In addition, personalization is central to our retail strategy. Our customer-driven personalization through ExtraCare®, ExtraCare Beauty Club®and MyWeeklyAdTMare designed to help us connect directly with individual consumers to deliver a personalized experience. We also provide a broad assortment of quality merchandise at competitive prices using a retail format that emphasizes service, innovation and convenience. One of the keys to our strategy is technology, which allows us to focus on constantly improving service and exploring ways to provide more personalized product offerings and services. We believe that continuing to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customers’ needs and preferences is very important to our ability to continue to improve customer satisfaction.



Retail Pharmacy Products and Services- A typical retail store sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of high-quality, nationally advertised brand name and proprietary brand merchandise. Front store categories include over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, personal care products, convenience foods, photo finishing services, seasonal merchandise and greeting cards. We purchase our merchandise from numerous manufacturers and distributors. We believe that competitive sources are readily available for substantially all of the products we carry and the loss of any one supplier would not likely have a material effect on the business.



Retail Pharmacy Segment net revenues by major product group are as follows:

Percentage of Net Revenues(1)201420132012Prescription drugs70.7%69.5%68.8%Over-the-counter and personal care11.011.010.9Beauty/cosmetics4.74.95.0General merchandise and other13.614.615.3100.0%100.0%100.0%



(1)Percentages are estimates based on store point-of-sale data.












Pharmacy

®

, a program where eligible client plan members can elect to fill their maintenance prescriptions at our retail pharmacy stores for the same price as mail order; and Pharmacy Advisor

®

, our program that facilitates pharmacist counseling, both face-to-face and over the telephone, to help participating plan members with certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular conditions, to identify gaps in care, adhere to their prescribed medications and manage their health conditions; as well as Specialty Connect

TM

, our integrated specialty pharmacy offering that began in 2014 which integrates specialty mail and retail capabilities, providing members with disease-state specific counseling from our experienced specialty pharmacists and the choice to bring their specialty prescriptions to a CVS/pharmacy location or submit it through our specialty mail order pharmacies. Maintenance Choice, Pharmacy Advisor and Specialty Connect are all programs that demonstrate our ability to enhance the customer experience through our integrated enterprise products and services. Further evidencing our belief in the importance of pharmacy service is our continuing investment in technology, such as our Drug Utilization Review system that helps check for harmful interactions between prescription drugs and patient identified over-the-counter products, vitamins and herbal remedies; our proprietary pharmacy system that integrates our product delivery and clinical workflows as well as advanced patient safety functionality such as drug utilization review, Rx Connect; our prescription refill program, ReadyFill

®

; and our online retail businesses, CVS.com, Navarro.com and Onofre.com.br.



Front Store

- Front store revenues benefited from our strategy to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative personalized marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customers’ needs and preferences. A key component of our front store strategy is our ExtraCare

®

card program, which is helping us continue to build our loyal customer base. The ExtraCare program is one of the largest and most successful retail loyalty programs in the United States. The ExtraCare program allows us to balance our marketing efforts so we can reward our best customers by providing them automatic sale prices, customized coupons, ExtraBucks

®

rewards and other benefits. Similar to ExtraCare is the Beauty Club, another program that rewards our loyal customers with sales prices and customized coupons. We continue to launch new and exclusive brands like Salma Hayek Nuance

TM

, MakeUp Academy

TM

and NYX

®

to create unmatched offerings in beauty. Another component of our front store strategy is our unique product offerings, which include a full range of high-quality CVS/pharmacy

®

and proprietary brand products that are only available through CVS/pharmacy stores. We currently carry over 5,200 CVS/pharmacy and proprietary brand products, which accounted for approximately 19.5% of our front store revenues during 2014. These products include expanded offerings of healthy foods and vitamins. Furthermore, we are tailoring certain groups of stores, such as suburban area stores, to better meet the needs of our customers.



MinuteClinic -As of December 31, 2014, we operated971MinuteClinic®locations in 31 states and the District of Columbia, of which963were located in CVS/pharmacy stores. We opened 175 new clinics during 2014. MinuteClinics are staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants who utilize nationally established guidelines to diagnose and treat minor health conditions, perform health screenings, monitor chronic conditions, provide wellness services and deliver vaccinations. Insurers value MinuteClinic because it provides convenient, high-quality, cost-effective care, in many cases offering an attractive alternative to more expensive sites of care. As a result, visits paid for by employers, health insurers or other third parties accounted for approximately 85% of MinuteClinic’s total revenues in 2014. MinuteClinic is collaborating with our Pharmacy Services Segment to help meet the needs of CVS/caremark’s client plan members by offering programs that can improve member health and lower costs. MinuteClinic is now affiliated with 49 major health systems and continues to build a platform that supports primary care.



Onsite Pharmacies- We also operate a limited number of small pharmacies located at client sites under the CarePlus®, CarePlus CVS/pharmacy®, CVS/pharmacy®or Wellness Works Pharmacy name, which provide certain health plan members and customers with a convenient alternative for filling their prescriptions.



Retail Pharmacy Store Development- The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a key role in our continued growth and success. Our store development program focuses on three areas: entering new markets, adding stores within existing markets and relocating stores to more convenient sites. During 2014, we opened 151 new retail pharmacy










stores, acquired 33 stores, relocated 60 stores and closed 22 stores. During the last five years, we opened more than 1,200 new and relocated stores, and acquired 125 stores. During 2015, we expect square footage growth of approximately 2%. We believe that continuing to grow our store base and locating stores in more accessible markets are essential components to compete effectively in the current health care environment. As a result, we believe that our store development program is an integral part of our ability to maintain our leadership position given the changing health care landscape and to meet the increasing needs of our customers.



Retail Pharmacy Information Systems

- We have continued to invest in information systems to enable us to deliver exceptional customer service, enhance safety and quality, and expand our patient care services while lowering operating costs. Leveraging our retail pharmacy fulfillment system, RxConnect and our proprietary WeCARE Workflow, supports our pharmacy teams by prioritizing work to meet customer expectations, facilitating prescriber outreach, and seamlessly integrating our clinical programs. This solution delivers improved efficiency and enhances the customer experience, as well as providing a framework to accommodate the evolution of pharmacy practice and the expansion of our clinical programs. Our Health Engagement Engine

TM

technology and proprietary clinical algorithms enable us to help identify opportunities for our pharmacists to deliver face-to-face counseling regarding patient health and safety matters, including adherence issues, gaps in care and management of certain chronic health conditions. Our digital strategy empowers the consumer to navigate their pharmacy experience and manage their condition through our on-line and mobile tools that offer utility and convenience. This includes the ability to schedule an appointment at MinuteClinic, get next-in line alerts or health reminders and appointment updates via the phone. Our integrated digital offerings help patients seamlessly manage retail, mail and specialty prescriptions dispensed by a CVS/pharmacy location and enhance front store personalization to drive value for customers. We experienced strong adoption of our digital solutions with our mobile app receiving critical acclaim for ease of use and our text message program experiencing significant growth.



Retail Pharmacy Customers- Managed care organizations, government-funded health care programs (including state Medicaid plans and Medicare Part D drug plans), commercial employers and other third party plans accounted for 98.6% of our 2014 pharmacy revenues. The loss of any one payor should not have a material effect on our business. No single retail payor accounts for 10% or more of our annual consolidated revenues. However, the success of our retail drugstore business is dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain contractual relationships with PBMs and other payors on acceptable terms.



Retail Pharmacy Seasonality- The majority of our revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, are generally not seasonal in nature. However, front store revenues tend to be higher during the December holiday season. In addition, both pharmacy and front store revenues are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season. For additional information, we refer you to “Risks related to the seasonality of our business” in Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Retail Pharmacy Competition- The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. We believe that we compete principally on the basis of: (i) store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and variety and (iv) price. In the markets we serve, we compete with other drugstore chains (e.g., Walgreens and Rite Aid), supermarkets, discount retailers (e.g., Wal-Mart and Target), independent pharmacies, restrictive pharmacy networks, membership clubs, Internet companies, and retail health clinics, as well as other mail order pharmacies and PBMs.



Corporate Segment



Our Corporate Segment provides management and administrative services to support the overall operations of the Company. The Corporate Segment consists of certain aspects of our executive management, corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, corporate information technology and finance departments.



Generic Sourcing Venture



In July 2014, the Company and Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”) established Red Oak Sourcing, LLC (“Red Oak”), a generic pharmaceutical sourcing entity in which the Company and Cardinal each own 50%. The Red Oak arrangement has an initial term of ten years. Under this arrangement, the Company and Cardinal contributed their sourcing and supply chain expertise to Red Oak and agreed to source and negotiate generic pharmaceutical supply contracts for both companies through Red Oak; however, Red Oak does not own or hold inventory on behalf of either company. No physical assets (e.g., property and equipment) were contributed to Red Oak by either company and minimal funding was provided to capitalize Red Oak.



Red Oak is a variable interest entity. The Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of this variable interest entity because it has the ability to direct the activities of Red Oak. Consequently, the Company consolidates Red Oak in its consolidated financial statements within the Retail Pharmacy Segment. Cardinal is required to pay the Company 39 quarterly










payments of $25.6 million which commenced in October 2014 and, if certain milestones are achieved, it will pay additional predetermined quarterly amounts to the Company beginning in the third quarter of 2015.



Working Capital Practices



We fund the growth of our business through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper, proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions and long-term borrowings. For additional information on our working capital practices, we refer you to the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2014, which section is incorporated by reference herein. The majority of our non-pharmacy revenues are paid in cash, or with debit or credit cards, while managed care and other third party insurance programs, which typically settle in less than 30 days, represented approximately 99.5% of our consolidated pharmacy revenues in 2014, including both Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services. The remainder of consolidated pharmacy revenues are paid in cash, or with debit or credit cards. Our customer returns are not significant.



Colleague Development



As of December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 217,800 colleagues, which included more than 26,000 pharmacists, nurses, nurse practitioners and physician assistants. The total included approximately 80,000 part-time colleagues who work less than 30 hours per week. To deliver the highest levels of service to our customers, we devote considerable time and attention to our people and service standards. We emphasize attracting and training knowledgeable, friendly and helpful associates to work in our organization.



Intellectual Property



We have registered and/or applied to register a variety of our trademarks and service marks used throughout our business, as well as domain names, and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, in addition to contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value in our Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments. We are not aware of any facts that could materially impact our continuing use of any of our intellectual property.



Government Regulation



Overview- Much of our business is subject to federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, many of our PBM clients and our payors in the Retail Pharmacy Segment, including insurers and managed care organizations (“MCOs”), are themselves subject to extensive regulations that affect the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans that they sponsor. The application of these complex legal and regulatory requirements to the detailed operation of our business creates areas of uncertainty. Further, there are numerous proposed health care laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, some of which could adversely affect our business if they are enacted. We are unable to predict what federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the health care industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or regulations might have on our business. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations as summarized below, or any adverse applications of, or changes in, the laws and regulations affecting our business, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and/or financial condition. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for further information.



Although we believe that we are in material compliance with existing laws and regulations applicable to our various business lines, we cannot give any assurances that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on: (i) future enactment of new health care or other laws or regulations; (ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, including the laws and regulations described in this Government Regulation section, as they may relate to our business, the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or to the health care industry generally; (iii) pending or future federal or state governmental investigations of our business or the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or of the health care industry generally; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pendingqui tamlawsuit against us, whether sealed or unsealed, or in any futurequi tamlawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or the health care industry generally.


















Laws and Regulations Related to Each Operating Segment of Our Business



Laws Related to Reimbursement by Government Programs

- We are subject to various state and federal laws concerning our submission of claims for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs. Potential sanctions for violating these laws include recoupment or reduction of government reimbursement amounts, civil penalties, multiples damages, and exclusion from participation in government health care programs. Such laws include the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), various state false claims acts, the federal “Stark Law” and related state laws. In particular, the FCA prohibits intentionally submitting, conspiring to submit, or causing to be submitted, false claims, records, or statements to the federal government, or intentionally failing to return overpayments, in connection with reimbursement by federal government programs. As part of ACA, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute was amended in 2010 to provide that any claim for government reimbursement violates the FCA where it results from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute. Most states have enacted false claims laws analogous to the FCA, and both federal and state false claims laws permit private individuals to file

qui tam

or “whistleblower” lawsuits on behalf of the federal or state government. Further, the federal Stark Law generally prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries for certain services, including outpatient prescription drugs, to any entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member of the physician, has a financial relationship. The Stark Law further prohibits the entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting a claim for reimbursement by Medicare or Medicaid for services furnished pursuant to the prohibited referral. Various states have enacted similar laws.



Anti-Remuneration Laws- Federal law prohibits, among other things, an entity from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving, subject to certain exceptions and “safe harbors,” any remuneration to induce the referral of individuals or the purchase, lease or order of items or services for which payment may be made under Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal health care programs. A number of states have similar laws, some of which are not limited to services paid for with government funds. Sanctions for violating these federal and state anti-remuneration laws may include imprisonment, criminal and civil fines, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs.



Antitrust and Unfair Competition- The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTCA”) to investigate and prosecute practices that are “unfair trade practices” or “unfair methods of competition.” Numerous lawsuits have been filed throughout the United States against pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies and/or PBMs under various state and federal antitrust and unfair competition laws challenging, among other things: (i) brand drug pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, (ii) the maintenance of retail pharmacy networks by PBMs, and (iii) various other business practices of PBMs and retail pharmacies. To the extent that we appear to have actual or potential market power in a relevant market or CVS/pharmacy plays a unique or expanded role in a PBM product offering, our business arrangements and uses of confidential information may be subject to heightened scrutiny from an anti-competitive perspective and possible challenge by state or federal regulators or private parties.



Privacy and Confidentiality Requirements- Many of our activities involve the receipt, use and disclosure by us of personally identifiable information (“PII”) as permitted in accordance with applicable federal and state privacy and data security laws, which require organizations to provide appropriate privacy and security safeguards for such information. In addition to PII, we use and disclose de-identified data for analytical and other purposes when permitted. Additionally, there are industry standards for handling credit card data known as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which are a set of requirements designed to help ensure that entities that process, store or transmitcredit card information maintain a secure environment. Certain states have recently incorporated these requirements into state laws.



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations issued thereunder (collectively, “HIPAA”) impose extensive requirements on the way in which health plans, health care providers, health care clearinghouses (known as “covered entities”) and their business associates use, disclose and safeguard protected health information (“PHI”). Criminal penalties and civil sanctions may be imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA standards. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, amended HIPAA to impose additional restrictions on third-party funded communications using PHI and the receipt of remuneration in exchange for PHI. It also extended HIPAA privacy and security requirements and penalties directly to business associates. In addition to HIPAA, state health privacy laws apply to the extent they are more protective of individual privacy than is HIPAA.



Finally, the Health Insurance Marketplaces (formerly known as the “exchanges”) are required to adhere to privacy and security standards with respect to PII, and to impose privacy and security standards that are at least as protective of PII as those the Health Insurance Marketplace has implemented for itself or non-Health Insurance Marketplace entities, which include insurers










offering plans through the Health Insurance Marketplaces and their designated downstream entities, including PBMs and other business associates. These standards may differ from, and be more stringent than, HIPAA.



Consumer Protection Laws- The federal government has many consumer protection laws, such as the FTCA, the Federal Postal Service Act and the FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule. Most states also have similar consumer protection laws. These laws have been the basis for investigations, lawsuits and multi-state settlements relating to, among other matters, the marketing of loyalty programs and health care services, pricing accuracy, expired front store products, financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with therapeutic interchange programs and disclosures related to how personal data is used and protected.



Government Agreements and Mandates- The Company and/or its various affiliates are subject to certain consent decrees, settlement agreements, and corporate integrity agreements with various federal, state and local authorities relating to such matters as privacy practices, pseudoephedrine products, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, expired products, environmental and safety matters, marketing and advertising practices, PBM and pharmacy operations and various other business practices. These agreements contain certain ongoing reporting, monitoring or other compliance requirements for the Company. Failure to meet the Company’s obligations under these agreements could result in civil or criminal remedies, financial penalties, administrative remedies, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs.



Environmental and Safety Regulation- Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and other requirements pertaining to protection of the environment, public health and employee safety, including, for example, regulations governing the management of hazardous substances, the cleaning up of contaminated sites, and the maintenance of safe working conditions in our stores, distribution centers and other facilities. Governmental agencies on the federal, state and local levels have, in recent years, increasingly focused on the retail and healthcare sectors’ compliance with such laws and regulations, and have at times pursued enforcement activities. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or other sanctions by government authorities.



Health Reform Legislation- Passed in 2010, ACA affects virtually every aspect of health care in the country. In addition to establishing the framework for every individual to have health coverage, ACA enacted a number of significant health care reforms. Many of these reforms affect the coverage and plan designs that are provided by our health plan clients. As a result, these reforms impact a number of our services and business practices. Given that many of the regulations implementing ACA are still being finalized and that sub-regulatory guidance is still being issued, the full impact of ACA on our Company is uncertain.



Pharmacy and Professional Licensure and Regulation



Telemarketing and Other Outbound Contacts- Certain federal and state laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, give the FTC, Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and state attorneys general the ability to regulate, and bring enforcement actions relating to, telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts such as phone calls, texts or emails. Under certain circumstances, these laws may provide consumers with a private right of action. Violations of these laws could result in substantial statutory penalties and other sanctions.




















Laws and Regulations Related to Our Pharmacy Services Segment



In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above that may affect our business as a whole, we are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the operation of our Pharmacy Services Segment specifically. Among these are the following:



PBM Laws and Regulation- Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities in a comprehensive manner has been introduced or enacted in a number of states. This legislation could adversely impact our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms in states where the legislation is in effect.



In addition, certain quasi-regulatory organizations, including the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) have issued model regulations or may propose future regulations concerning PBMs and/or PBM activities. Similarly, credentialing organizations such as the NCQA and URAC may establish voluntary standards regarding PBM or specialty pharmacy activities. While the actions of these quasi-regulatory or standard-setting organizations do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their requirements or recommendations and influence client requirements for PBM or specialty pharmacy services. Moreover, any standards established by these organizations could also impact our health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them.



Medicare Part D- The Medicare Part D program, which makes prescription drug coverage available to eligible Medicare beneficiaries through private insurers, regulates all aspects of the provision of Medicare drug coverage, including enrollment, formularies, pharmacy networks, marketing, and claims processing. The Medicare Part D program has undergone significant legislative and regulatory changes since its inception, and continues to attract a high degree of legislative and regulatory scrutiny. The applicable government rules and regulations continue to evolve. CMS has imposed restrictions and issued new requirements to protect Medicare Part D beneficiaries and has used its authority to sanction and impose civil monetary penalties on plans for non-compliance.



Network Access Legislation- Medicare Part D and a majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting the ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Certain “any willing provider” legislation may require us or our clients to admit a non-participating pharmacy if such pharmacy is willing and able to meet the plan’s price and other applicable terms and conditions for network participation. These laws could negatively impact the services and economic benefits achievable through a limited pharmacy provider network.



Also, a majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting our ability (and the health plans’ ability) to conduct audits of network pharmacies regarding claims submitted to us for payment. These laws could negatively impact our ability to recover overpayments in health care payments stemming from pharmacy audits. Lastly, several states have passed legislation regulating our ability to manage and establish maximum allowable costs (“MAC”). MAC methodology is a common cost management practice used to pay pharmacies for dispensing generic prescription drugs, including private and public payors. MAC prices specify the allowable reimbursement by a PBM for a particular strength and dosage of a generic drug that is available from multiple manufacturers but sold at different prices. State legislation can regulate the disclosure of MAC prices and MAC price methodologies, the kinds of drugs that a PBM can pay at a MAC price, and the rights of pharmacies to appeal a MAC price established by a PBM. These laws could negatively impact our ability to establish MAC prices for generic drugs.



Contract Audits- We are subject to audits of many of our contracts, including our PBM client contracts, our PBM rebate contracts, our contracts relating to Medicare Part D and the agreement our pharmacies enter into with payors. Because some of our contracts are with state or federal governments or with entities contracted with state or federal agencies, audits of these agreements are often regulated by the federal or state agencies responsible for administering federal or state benefits programs, including those which operate Medicaid fee for service plans, Managed Medicaid plans, Medicare Part D plans or Medicare Advantage organizations.



Federal Employee Health Benefits Program- We have a contractual arrangement with the BlueCross BlueShield Association to provide pharmacy services to federal employees, postal workers, annuitants, and their dependents under the Government-wide Service Benefit Plan, as authorized by the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (“FEHBA”) and as part of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. This arrangement subjects us to FEHBA, and other federal regulations, such as the Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation, that otherwise are not applicable to us.



State Insurance Laws- PDPs and our PBM service contracts, including those in which we assume certain risk under performance guarantees or similar arrangements, are generally not subject to insurance regulation by the states. However, as a PDP, SilverScript is subject to state insurance laws limited to licensure and solvency. In addition, PBM offerings of prescription drug coverage on a capitated basis, or otherwise accepting material financial risk in providing pharmacy benefits, may be










subject to laws and regulations in various states. Such laws may require that the party at risk become licensed as an insurer, establish reserves or otherwise demonstrate financial viability. Laws that may apply in such cases include insurance laws and laws governing MCOs and limited prepaid health service plans.



Some states have laws that prohibit submitting a false claim or making a false record or statement in order to secure reimbursement from an insurance company. These state laws vary, and violation of them may lead to the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, several states have passed legislation governing the prompt payment of claims that requires, among other things, that health plans and payors pay claims within certain prescribed time periods or pay specified interest penalties. These laws vary from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application.



ERISA Regulation- The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), provides for comprehensive federal regulation of certain employee pension and benefit plans, including private employer and union sponsored health plans and certain other plans that contract with us to provide PBM services. In general, we assist plan sponsors in the administration of the prescription drug portion of their health benefit plans in accordance with the plan designs adopted by the plan sponsors. We do not believe that the conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with a plan sponsor to accept limited fiduciary responsibility, such as for the adjudication of initial prescription drug benefit claims and/or the appeals of denied claims under a plan, and with respect to the Contraceptive Coverage Mandate, one of the health reforms included in ACA.



In addition to its fiduciary provisions, ERISA imposes civil and criminal liability on service providers to health plans and certain other persons if certain forms of illegal remuneration are made or received. These provisions of ERISA are broadly written and their application to specific business practices is often uncertain.



Formulary and Plan Design Regulation- A number of government entities regulate the administration of prescription drug benefits. HHS regulates how Medicare Part D formularies are developed and administered, including requiring the inclusion of all drugs in certain classes and categories, subject to limited exceptions. Under ACA, CMS imposes drug coverage requirements for health plans required to cover essential health benefits, including plans offered through federal or state exchanges. Additionally, the NAIC and health care accreditation agencies like the NCQA and URAC have developed model acts and standards for formulary development that are often incorporated into government requirements. Many states regulate the scope of prescription drug coverage, as well as the delivery channels to receive such prescriptions, for insurers, MCOs and Medicaid managed care plans. The increasing government regulation of formularies could significantly affect our ability to develop and administer formularies, networks and other plan design features on behalf of our insurer, MCO and other clients. Similarly, some states prohibit health plan sponsors from implementing certain restrictive design features. This regulation could limit or preclude (i) limited networks, (ii) a requirement to use particular providers, (iii) copayment differentials among providers and (iv) formulary tiering practices.



Managed Care Reform- In addition to health reforms enacted by ACA, proposed legislation has been considered at the state level, and legislation has been enacted in several states, aimed primarily at providing additional rights and access to drugs to individuals enrolled in managed care plans. This legislation may impact the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans sponsored by our PBM health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them. Both the scope of the managed care reform proposals considered by state legislatures and reforms enacted by states to date vary greatly, and the scope of future legislation that may be enacted is uncertain.



Disease Management Services Regulation- We provide disease management programs to PBM plan members for rare medical conditions and arrange for them to receive disease management programs for common medical conditions. State laws regulate the practice of medicine, the practice of pharmacy and the practice of nursing. Clinicians engaged in a professional practice in connection with the provision of disease management services must satisfy applicable state licensing requirements and must act within their scope of practice.



Third Party Administration and Other State Licensure Laws- Many states have licensure or registration laws governing certain types of administrative organizations, such as preferred provider organizations, third party administrators and companies that provide utilization review services. Several states also have licensure or registration laws governing the organizations that provide or administer consumer card programs (also known as cash card or discount card programs).






















Laws and Regulations Related to Our Retail Pharmacy Segment



In addition to the laws and regulations discussed above that may affect our business as a whole, we are subject to federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the operation of our Retail Pharmacy Segment specifically. Among these are the following:



Specific FDA Regulation- The FDA generally has authority to, among other things, regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and labeling of many products sold through retail pharmacies, including prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, medical devices (including mobile medical devices), cosmetics, dietary supplements and certain food items.



Retail Clinics- States regulate retail clinics operated by nurse practitioners or physician assistants through physician oversight, lab licensing and the prohibition of the corporate practice of medicine. A number of states have implemented or proposed laws or regulations that impact certain components of retail clinic operations such as physician oversight, signage, third party contracting requirements, bathroom facilities, and scope of services. These laws and regulations may affect the operation and expansion of our owned and managed retail clinics.

Available Information



CVS Health Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our corporate office is located at One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “CVS.” General information about CVS Health is available through the Company’s Web site athttp://www.cvshealth.com. Our financial press releases and filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available free of charge within the Investors section of our Web site athttp://www.cvshealth.com/investors. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that Web site ishttp://www.sec.gov.














