Item 1. Business



Overview



CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS Caremark”, the “Company”, “we” or “us”), together with its subsidiaries, is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States, with integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care. CVS Caremark is uniquely positioned to deliver significant benefits to health plan sponsors through effective cost management solutions and innovative programs that engage plan members and promote healthier and more cost-effective behaviors. Our integrated pharmacy services model enhances our ability to offer plan members and consumers expanded choice, greater access and more personalized services to help them on their path to better health.



We effectively manage pharmaceutical costs and improve health care outcomes through our pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”), mail order and specialty pharmacy division, CVS Caremark®Pharmacy Services; our approximately 7,300 CVS/pharmacy®retail stores; our retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic®; and our online retail pharmacy, CVS.com®.



We currently have three reportable business segments: Pharmacy Services, Retail Pharmacy and Corporate.



Pharmacy Services Segment



The Pharmacy Services segment provides a full range of PBM services, as described more fully below, to our clients consisting primarily of employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, managed care organizations and other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the United States. In addition, through our SilverScript Insurance Company (“SilverScript”), Accendo Insurance Company (“Accendo”) and Pennsylvania Life Insurance Company (“Pennsylvania Life”) subsidiaries, we are a national provider of drug benefits to eligible beneficiaries under the Federal Government’s Medicare Part D program. Currently, the Pharmacy Services business operates under the CVS Caremark®Pharmacy Services, Caremark®, CVS Caremark®, CarePlus CVS/pharmacy®, CarePlus™, RxAmerica®and Accordant®names. As of December 31, 2011, the Pharmacy Services segment operated 31 retail specialty pharmacy stores, 12 specialty mail order pharmacies and four mail service pharmacies located in 22 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.



Pharmacy Services Business Strategy- Our business strategy centers on providing innovative pharmaceutical solutions and quality client service in order to enhance clinical outcomes for our clients’ health benefit plan members while assisting our clients and their plan members in better managing overall health care costs. We produce superior results for our clients and their plan members by leveraging our expertise in core PBM services, including: plan design and administration, formulary management, discounted drug purchase arrangements, Medicare Part D services, mail order and specialty pharmacy services, retail pharmacy network management services, prescription management systems, clinical services, disease management services and pharmacogenomics.



In addition, as a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we are able to offer our clients and their plan members a variety of programs and plan designs that benefit from our integrated information systems and the ability of our more than 25,000 pharmacists, nurse practitioners and physician assistants to interact personally with the many plan members who shop our stores every day. Through our multiple member touch points (retail stores, mail order and specialty pharmacies, retail clinics, call centers and proprietary websites), we seek to engage plan members in behaviors that lower cost and improve health care outcomes. Examples of these programs and services include: Maintenance Choice

®

, a program where eligible client plan members can elect to fill their maintenance prescriptions at our retail pharmacy stores for the same price as mail order; Pharmacy Advisor

®

, a program that uses our Consumer Engagement Engine

TM

technology to facilitate face-to-face and telephone counseling by our pharmacists to help participating plan members with certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular conditions, to identify gaps in care, adhere to their prescribed medications and manage their health conditions; compliance and persistency programs designed to ensure that patients take their medications in the proper manner; enhanced disease management programs that are targeted at managing chronic disease states; and an ExtraCare

®

Health Card program which offers discounts to eligible plan members on certain over-the-counter health care products sold in our CVS/pharmacy stores. In addition, we are working with our clients to (i) decrease unnecessary and expensive emergency room visits by encouraging plan members to use MinuteClinic locations for everyday common ailments and (ii) create pilot programs that offer convenient and unique services available at MinuteClinic, such as injection training for specialty pharmacy services.











PBM Services- Our PBM services are described more fully below.



Plan Design and Administration- Our clients sponsor pharmacy benefit plans that facilitate the ability of eligible members in these plans to receive prescribed medications. We assist our clients in designing pharmacy benefit plans that minimize the costs to the client while prioritizing the welfare and safety of the clients’ members. We also administer these benefit plans for our clients and assist them in monitoring the effectiveness of these plans through frequent, informal communications as well as through a formal annual client review.



We make recommendations to our clients encouraging them to design benefit plans promoting the use of the lowest cost, most clinically appropriate drug. We believe that we help our clients control costs by recommending plan designs that encourage the use of generic equivalents of brand name drugs when such equivalents are available. Our clients also have the option, through plan design, to further lower their pharmacy benefit plan costs by setting different member payment levels for different products on their drug lists.



Formulary Management- We utilize an independent panel of doctors, pharmacists and other medical experts, referred to as our Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, to select drugs that meet the highest standards of safety and efficacy for inclusion on our drug lists. Our drug lists provide recommended products in numerous drug classes to ensure member access to clinically appropriate alternatives under the client’s pharmacy benefit plan. To improve clinical outcomes for members and clients, we conduct ongoing, independent reviews of all drugs, including, but not limited to, those appearing on the drug lists and generic equivalent products, as well as our clinical programs. Many of our clients choose to adopt our drug lists as part of their plan design.



Discounted Drug Purchase Arrangements- We negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to obtain discounted acquisition costs for many of the products on our drug lists, and these negotiated discounts enable us to offer reduced costs to clients that choose to adopt our drug lists. The discounted drug purchase arrangements we negotiate typically provide for volume discounts and/or the payment by the pharmaceutical companies of retroactive discounts, or rebates, from established list prices. For certain products that are purchased by our pharmacies, we receive discounts at the time of purchase and/or discounts for prompt payment of invoices. We also receive various purchase discounts under our wholesale contracts, which may include retroactive discounts, or rebates, if we exceed contractually-defined purchase volumes. We record these discounts, regardless of their form, as a reduction of our cost of revenues.



Medicare Part D Services- We participate in the administration of the drug benefit added to the Medicare program under Part D of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) (“Medicare Part D”) through the provision of PBM services to our health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as Medicare Part D prescription drug plans (“PDP”). We also participate (i) by offering Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits through our subsidiaries, SilverScript, Accendo and Pennsylvania Life, which have been approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), as PDPs, and (ii) by assisting employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS in order for them to obtain the subsidy. On April 29, 2011, the Company acquired the Medicare prescription drug business of Universal American Corp. (the “UAM Medicare Part D Business”) for approximately $1.3 billion.



Mail Order Pharmacy- As of December 31, 2011, we operated four large, automated mail service pharmacies in the United States. Plan members or their prescribers submit prescriptions or refill requests, primarily for maintenance medications, to these pharmacies via mail, telephone, fax, e-prescribing or the Internet. We also operate a network of smaller mail service specialty pharmacies described below. Our staff pharmacists review mail service prescriptions and refill requests with the assistance of our prescription management systems. This review may involve communications with the prescriber and, with the prescriber’s approval, can result in generic substitution, therapeutic interchange or other actions designed to reduce cost and improve quality of treatment.



Specialty Pharmacy- Our specialty pharmacies support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. As of December 31, 2011, our specialty pharmacies were comprised of 12 specialty mail order pharmacies located throughout the United States that are used for delivery of advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic diseases and disorders. Substantially all of these pharmacies have been accredited by the Joint Commission, which is an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies more than 19,000 health care organizations and programs in the United States. As of December 31, 2011, the Company operated a network of 31 retail specialty pharmacy stores, which operate under the CarePlus CVS/pharmacy®name. These stores average 2,000 square feet in size and sell prescription drugs and a limited assortment of front store items such as alternative medications, homeopathic remedies and vitamins.











Retail Pharmacy NetworkManagement- We maintain a national network of approximately 65,000 retail pharmacies, including CVS/pharmacy stores. When a customer fills a prescription in a retail pharmacy, the pharmacy sends prescription data electronically to us from the point-of-sale. This data interfaces with our proprietary prescription management systems, which verify relevant plan member data and eligibility, while also performing a drug utilization review to evaluate clinical appropriateness and safety and confirming that the pharmacy will receive payment for the prescription.



Prescription Management Systems- We dispense prescription drugs both directly, through one of our mail service or specialty pharmacies, or through a network of retail pharmacies. All prescriptions, whether they are filled through one of our mail service pharmacies or through a pharmacy in our retail network, are analyzed, processed and documented by our proprietary prescription management systems. These systems assist staff and network pharmacists in processing prescriptions by automating review of various items, including, but not limited to, plan eligibility, early refills, duplicate dispensing, appropriateness of dosage, drug interactions or allergies, over-utilization and potential fraud.



Clinical Services- We offer multiple clinical programs and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner. Our programs are primarily designed to promote safety, and to target inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events that negatively impact members’ health and the client’s pharmacy and medical spend. In this regard, we offer various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement the client’s plan design and clinical strategies.



Disease Management Programs- Our clinical services utilize advanced protocols and offer clients convenience in working with health care providers and other third parties. Our Accordant®health management programs include integrated rare disease management programs, which cover diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson’s disease, seizure disorders and multiple sclerosis. The majority of these integrated programs are accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (“NCQA”), a private, not-for-profit organization that evaluates, accredits and certifies a wide range of health care organizations. In addition, we have entered into a strategic alliance with Alere, L.L.C. for the management of our common disease management program offerings, which cover such chronic diseases as asthma, diabetes, congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease.



Pharmacogenomic Services- We own a majority interest in Generation Health, Inc., a genetic benefit management company, that will allow us to expand our offering of pharmacogenomic clinical and testing services to our PBM clients. Pharmacogenomics is the study of how genetic makeup affects an individual’s response to drug therapies. Through genetic testing, doctors are able to evaluate a patient’s genetic makeup to determine the effectiveness of specific drugs, drug dosages and drug combinations. Through this relationship, we expect to use genetic testing to apply greater precision to client prescription management, with the goal of improving individual health outcomes and reducing overall medical costs. We began to offer these services for certain drug therapies on a limited pilot basis to clients during 2010 and rolled out these services to additional clients during 2011.



Pharmacy Services Information Systems- We currently operate multiple information systems platforms to support our Pharmacy Services segment. These information systems incorporate architecture that centralizes the data generated from filling mail service prescriptions, adjudicating retail pharmacy claims and fulfilling other PBM clients’ service contracts. As part of our streamlining initiative, we are consolidating our adjudication platforms to one destination platform with enhanced capabilities.



Pharmacy Services Clients- Our clients are primarily sponsors of health benefit plans (employers, unions, government employee groups, insurance companies and managed care organizations) and individuals located throughout the United States. We provide pharmaceuticals to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients and utilize our information systems, among other things, to perform safety checks, drug interaction screening and generic substitution. We generate substantially all of our Pharmacy Services segment net revenue from dispensing prescription drugs to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by our clients. No single PBM client accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues in 2011. Our client agreements are subject to renegotiation of terms. See “Risk Factors — Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter health care financing practices” and “- Risks of declining gross margins in the PBM industry.” During the year ended December 31, 2011, our PBM filled or managed approximately 775 million prescriptions.



Seasonality - The majority of our Pharmacy Services segment revenues are not seasonal in nature.











Pharmacy Services Competition- We believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include: (i) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from drug manufacturers; (ii) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from, and access to, retail pharmacy networks; (iii) responsiveness to clients’ needs; (iv) the ability to identify and apply effective cost management programs utilizing clinical strategies; (v) the ability to develop and utilize preferred drug lists; (vi) the ability to market PBM products and services; (vii) the commitment to provide flexible, clinically-oriented services to clients; and (viii) the quality, scope and costs of products and services offered to clients and their members. The Pharmacy Services segment competes with a number of large, national PBM companies, including Express Scripts, Inc. (“ESI”) and Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (“Medco”), as well as many smaller local or regional PBMs. In 2011, ESI and Medco announced plans to merge their businesses, subject to various closing conditions and regulatory approvals. It remains unclear whether the merger will be completed. We also compete with several large health insurers/managed care plans (e.g., United Healthcare and CIGNA), which have their own PBM capabilities, as well as with several other national and regional companies which provide services similar to ours.



Retail Pharmacy Segment



As of December 31, 2011, the Retail Pharmacy segment included 7,327 retail drugstores, of which 7,271 operated a pharmacy, our online retail pharmacy website, CVS.com, 30 onsite pharmacy stores and our retail health care clinics. The retail drugstores are located in 41 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia operating primarily under the CVS/pharmacy®name. We currently operate in 92 of the top 100 U.S. drugstore markets and hold the number one or number two market share in 73 of these markets. CVS/pharmacy stores sell prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, which we refer to as “front store” products. Existing retail stores range in size from approximately 5,000 to 25,000 square feet, although most new stores range in size from approximately 8,000 to 13,000 square feet and typically include a drive-thru pharmacy. During 2011, we filled approximately 658 million retail prescriptions, or approximately 20% of the U.S. retail pharmacy market.



As of December 31, 2011, we operated 657 retail health care clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia under the MinuteClinic®name, of which 648 were located within CVS/pharmacy stores.



Retail Pharmacy Business Strategy



Retail Pharmacy Products and Services- A typical CVS/pharmacy store sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of high-quality, nationally advertised brand name and private label merchandise. Front store categories include over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, film and photo finishing services, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods. We purchase our merchandise from numerous manufacturers and distributors. We believe that competitive sources are readily available for substantially all of the products we carry and the loss of any one supplier would not have a material effect on the business.











Consolidated net revenues by major product group are as follows:



Percentage of Net Revenues(1)201120102009Prescription drugs68.3%68.0%67.7%Over-the-counter and personal care10.910.911.0Beauty/cosmetics5.25.15.1General merchandise and other15.616.016.2100.0%100.0%100.0%





(1)Percentages are estimates based on store point-of-sale data.



Pharmacy

TM

; and our online business, CVS.com.



Front Store- Front store revenues benefited from our strategy to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customers’ needs and preferences. A key component of our front store strategy is our ExtraCare®card program, which is helping us continue to build our loyal customer base. The ExtraCare program is one of the largest and most successful retail loyalty programs in the United States. In addition, the ExtraCare program allows us to balance our marketing efforts so we can reward our best customers by providing them automatic sale prices, customized coupons, ExtraBucks®rewards and other benefits. Another component of our front store strategy is our unique product offerings, which include a full range of high-quality CVS/pharmacy®and proprietary brand products that are only available through CVS/pharmacy stores. We currently carry over 4,400 CVS/pharmacy and proprietary brand products, which accounted for approximately 18% of our front store revenues during 2011. Furthermore, we are tailoring certain groups of stores to better meet the needs of our customers, such as our urban cluster stores.











MinuteClinic -As of December 31, 2011, we operated 657 MinuteClinic®locations in 25 states and the District of Columbia; of which 648 were located in CVS/pharmacy stores. MinuteClinics are staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants who utilize nationally recognized protocols to diagnose and treat minor health conditions, perform health screenings, monitor chronic conditions and deliver vaccinations. Many locations have also begun treating a variety of chronic conditions. Insurers value MinuteClinic because it provides convenient, high-quality, cost-effective care, in many cases offering an attractive alternative to the far more expensive emergency room. As a result, visits paid for by employers, health insurers or other third parties accounted for approximately 84% of MinuteClinic’s total revenues in 2011. We anticipate opening up approximately 100 new clinics in CVS/pharmacy stores during 2012. MinuteClinic is collaborating with our Pharmacy Services segment to help meet the needs of CVS Caremark plan members by offering programs that can improve member health and lower costs.



Onsite Pharmacies- We also operate a limited number of small pharmacies located at client sites under the CarePlus CVS/pharmacy®, CarePlusTMor CVS/pharmacy®name, which provide certain health plan members and customers with a convenient alternative for filling their prescriptions.



Retail Pharmacy Store Development- The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a major role in our continued growth and success. Our store development program focuses on three areas: entering new markets, adding stores within existing markets and relocating stores to more convenient, freestanding sites. During 2011, we opened 161 new retail pharmacy stores, relocated 86 stores and closed 16 stores. During the last five years, we opened more than 1,400 new and relocated stores, and acquired approximately 500 stores. During 2012, we expect to open between 225 and 250 new or relocated stores, and close approximately 20 stores. We believe that continuing to grow our store base and locating stores in desirable geographic markets are essential components to compete effectively in the current managed care environment. As a result, we believe that our store development program is an integral part of our ability to maintain our leadership position in the retail drugstore industry.



Retail Pharmacy Information Systems

- We have continued to invest in information systems to enable us to deliver a high level of customer service while lowering costs and increasing operating efficiency. In 2010, we completed the rollout of Rx Connect, which reengineered the way our pharmacists communicate and fill prescriptions. Our Consumer Engagement Engine technology enables us to message pharmacists at the point of care which facilitates face-to-face counseling regarding patient health and safety matters, including adherence issues, gaps in care and management of certain chronic health conditions. We were one of the first in the industry to introduce Drug Utilization Review technology that checks for harmful interactions between prescription drugs, over-the-counter products, vitamins and herbal remedies. We were also one of the first in the industry to install a chain-wide automatic prescription refill system, CVS Rapid Refill, which enables customers to order prescription refills 24 hours a day using a touch-tone telephone. We continue to enhance our Visible Improvement in Profits, Execution and Results (“VIPER”) system, a transaction-monitoring application designed to mitigate inventory losses attributable to process deficiencies or fraudulent behavior by providing visibility to transactions processed through our point-of-sale systems. In addition, we operate distribution centers with fully integrated technology solutions for storage, product retrieval and order picking.



Retail Pharmacy Customers- Managed care organizations, government-funded health care programs (including state Medicaid plans and Medicare Part D drug plans), commercial employers and other third party plans accounted for 97.8% of our 2011 pharmacy revenues. The loss of any one payor should not have a material effect on our business. No single retail payor accounts for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. However, the success of our retail drugstore business is dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain contractual relationships with PBMs and other payors on acceptable terms. In 2011, two of the nation’s largest PBMs, Medco and ESI, together accounted for approximately 22% of our Retail Pharmacy Segment revenues. During 2011, Medco and ESI announced plans to merge their businesses, subject to various closing conditions and regulatory approvals. It remains unclear whether the merger will occur, and we cannot predict the impact of the proposed merger if completed, on the competitive landscape. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors —An extremely competitive business environment.” Our contracts with commercial payors and government-funded programs are subject to renegotiation of reimbursement rates. See “Government Regulation — Reimbursement” and Item 1A., “Risk Factors —Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter health care financing practices.”



Retail Pharmacy Seasonality- The majority of our revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, are generally not seasonal in nature. However, front store revenues tend to be higher during the December holiday season. For additional information, we refer you to the Note “Quarterly Financial Information” in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2011, which section is incorporated by reference herein.



Retail Pharmacy Competition- The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. We believe that we compete principally on the basis of: (i) store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and variety and (iv) price. In the markets we serve, we compete with other drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, independent pharmacies, membership clubs, Internet companies, and retail health clinics, as well as other mail order pharmacies and PBMs.











Corporate Segment



Our Corporate segment provides management and administrative services to support the overall operations of the Company. The Corporate segment consists of certain aspects of our executive management, corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, corporate information technology and finance departments.



Working Capital Practices



We fund the growth of our business through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper, proceeds from sales-lease-back transactions, and long-term borrowings. For additional information on our working capital practices, we refer you to the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2011, which section is incorporated by reference herein. The majority of our non-pharmacy revenues are paid in cash, debit or credit cards, while managed care and other third party insurance programs, which typically settle in less than 30 days, represented approximately 99.1% of our consolidated pharmacy revenues, including both Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services combined, in 2011. Our customer returns are not significant.



Associate Development



As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 202,000 associates, which included more than 25,000 pharmacists, nurse practitioners and physician assistants. In addition, approximately 78,000 associates were part-time employees who work less than 30 hours per week. To deliver the highest levels of service to our customers, we devote considerable time and attention to our people and service standards. We emphasize attracting and training knowledgeable, friendly and helpful associates to work in our organization.



Intellectual Property



We have registered and/or applied to register a variety of our trademarks and service marks used throughout our business. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value in our Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments. We are not aware of any facts that could materially impact our continuing use of any of our intellectual property.



Government Regulation



Overview- As a participant in the health care industry, our retail and pharmacy services businesses are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that govern the purchase, sale and distribution of prescription drugs and related services, including administration and management of prescription drug benefits. Many of our PBM clients, including insurers and managed care organizations (“MCOs”), are themselves subject to extensive regulations that affect the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans that they sponsor. The application of these complex legal and regulatory requirements to the detailed operation of our business creates areas of uncertainty. There are numerous proposed health care laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, some of which could adversely affect our business if they are enacted. We are unable to predict what federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the health care industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or regulations might have on our business. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or any adverse applications of, or changes in, the laws and regulations affecting our business, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and/or financial condition.











Anti-Remuneration Laws



Antitrust and Unfair Competition- The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTCA”) to investigate and prosecute practices that are “unfair trade practices” or “unfair methods of competition.” Relief under the FTCA can encompass equitable relief and consumer redress. In addition, numerous lawsuits have been filed throughout the United States against pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies and/or PBMs under various state and federal antitrust and unfair competition laws challenging, among other things: (i) brand drug pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, (ii) the maintenance of retail pharmacy networks by PBMs, and (iii) various other business practices of PBMs and retail pharmacies. To the extent that we appear to have actual or potential market power in a relevant market, our business arrangements and practices may be subject to heightened scrutiny from an anti-competitive perspective and possible challenge by state or federal regulators or private parties. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for further information.



Compliance Programs- PPACA requires that health care providers enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid must establish and maintain compliance programs that satisfy core requirements to be established by the Secretary of HHS in consultation with the OIG. The Secretary of HHS has not yet published information concerning these compliance programs or the timeframe for implementation. In addition, certain state government health care programs have compliance program requirements, and we are subject to various government agreements described under “Government Agreements” below that also contain requirements relating to the maintenance of compliance programs.



Consumer Protection Laws- The federal government and most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations, lawsuits and multi-state settlements relating to, among other matters, the marketing of loyalty programs and health care services, and financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with therapeutic interchange programs. In addition, the FTCA bars unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. The Federal Postal Service Act generally prohibits the mailing of, and billing for, unordered merchandise. The FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule also imposes extensive requirements and restrictions in connection with telemarketing of plans or programs that encourage the purchase of goods or services by consumers. (See the Telemarketing and Other Outbound Contacts section below for further disclosures.)











Contract Audits- We are subject to audits of many of our contracts, including our PBM client contracts, our PBM rebate contracts, our pharmacy provider agreements and our contracts relating to Medicare Part D. Audits are typically conducted pursuant to certain provisions in our PBM contracts and provider agreements that grant audit rights and set forth applicable audit procedures. Because some of our contracts are with state or federal governments or with entities contracted with state or federal agencies, audits of these agreements are often regulated by the federal or state agencies responsible for administering federal or state benefits programs, including those which operate Medicaid fee for service plans, Managed Medicaid plans, Medicare Part D plans or Medicare Advantage organizations. The audits generally focus on, among other things, compliance with the applicable terms of our contracts and applicable legal requirements.



Disease Management Services Regulation- We provide or arrange for PBM plan members to receive clinical services in the form of disease management programs for common and rare medical conditions. Nurses, pharmacists and other clinicians, as needed, develop and implement these programs. State laws regulate the practice of medicine, the practice of pharmacy and the practice of nursing, and clinicians engaged in a professional practice must satisfy applicable state licensing requirements.



Electronic Prescribing

- The federal government has implemented different programs to promote electronic prescribing, including the eRx Incentive Program established under the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, which provides a combination of incentive payments and payment adjustments through 2014 to eligible professionals who are successful electronic prescribers. While this program sunsets after 2014, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) established an incentive program for eligible professionals and hospitals participating in the Medicare or Medicaid program that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health records (“EHR”) technology beginning in 2011. ARRA also provides for downward payment adjustments beginning in 2015 for eligible professionals in the Medicare program that fail to adopt and meaningfully use certified EHR technology such as electronic prescribing. A final rule implementing the EHR incentive program was issued in July 2010 which requires that at least 40% of permissible prescriptions be sent electronically in order to qualify for the incentive payments. In March 2010, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) issued an interim final rule allowing electronic prescribing of controlled substances beginning June 1, 2010. These changes, together with the requirement for Medicare Part D plans to support electronic prescribing, should result in a growing number of prescribers adopting electronic prescribing.



Environmental Regulation- Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and other requirements pertaining to protection of the environment and public health, including, for example, regulations governing the management of waste materials and waste waters. Governmental agencies on the federal, state and local levels have, in recent years, increasingly focused on the retail sector’s compliance with such laws and regulations, and have at times pursued enforcement activities. There is also an increased interest by regulators in better managing photo processing as well as pharmaceutical and other wastes. Our retail pharmacies have been subject to various state environmental agency enforcement actions, and we periodically receive information requests and notices of potential noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations from governmental agencies.



ERISA Regulation- The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), provides for comprehensive federal regulation of certain employee pension and benefit plans, including private employer and union sponsored health plans and certain other plans that contract with us to provide PBM services. In general, we assist plan sponsors in the administration of the prescription drug portion of their health benefit plans, in accordance with the plan designs adopted by the plan sponsors. We do not believe that the conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with a plan sponsor to accept limited fiduciary responsibility, such as for the adjudication of initial prescription drug benefit claims and/or the appeals of denied claims under a plan. We and other PBMs have been named in lawsuits alleging that we act as a fiduciary, as such term is defined by ERISA, with respect to health benefit plans and that we have breached certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA.











ERISA fiduciaries may be held personally liable for entering into service contracts or arrangements, like PBM contracts, on behalf of ERISA plans if the terms of the contract are not reasonable or if the service provider receives more than reasonable compensation for the services provided. In such cases, the service provider may also be required to disgorge any unreasonable compensation received and may be subject to civil penalties imposed by the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”).



In addition to its fiduciary provisions, ERISA imposes civil and criminal liability on service providers to health plans and certain other persons if certain forms of illegal remuneration are made or received. These provisions of ERISA are similar, but not identical, to the health care anti-remuneration statutes discussed above, although ERISA lacks the statutory and regulatory “safe harbor” exceptions incorporated into the health care statutes. Similar to these health care statutes, the corresponding provisions of ERISA are broadly written and their application to specific business practices is often uncertain.



Most pension and welfare plans subject to ERISA are required to report to the DOL compensation paid to service providers. In addition, the DOL announced a project in 2009 to promulgate regulations under ERISA that could require service providers, including PBMs, to provide detailed disclosure regarding all direct and indirect compensation to be received in connection with the services provided as well as potential conflicts of interest. The DOL issued supplemental “frequently asked questions” in 2010 that specifically addressed PBM disclosure of certain compensation, including: (i) fees for services, such as dispensing fees and administrative fees, which are reportable as direct compensation, and (ii) discounts and rebates received by PBMs from pharmaceutical companies, which pending further guidance from the DOL generally do not need to be treated as reportable indirect compensation. Further guidance is expected from the DOL, and we cannot be certain of the extent to which possible future disclosure regulations may impact our business.



State laws discussed in this Government Regulation section that may be applicable to us or to plan sponsors that are our customers may be preempted in whole or in part by ERISA. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings.



False Claims and Fraudulent Billing Statutes

qui tam

qui tam











FDA Regulation



Federal Employee Health Benefits Program- We have a contractual arrangement with the BlueCross BlueShield Association (“BCBSA”) to provide pharmacy services to federal employees, postal workers, annuitants, and their dependents under the Government-wide Service Benefit Plan, as authorized by the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (“FEHBA”) and as part of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (“FEHBP”). This arrangement subjects us to FEHBA, FEHBA regulations, including the Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation, the Office of Personnel Management guidelines, and certain Federal Acquisition Regulations. These laws, regulations and guidelines govern the process by which the federal government contracts with health insurance carriers, such as BCBSA, that participate in the FEHBP, and obligate such health insurance carriers to impose various contractual requirements on their contract vendors, including, among other things, requirements relating to transparency, performance standards, drug interchanges, patient safety, consumer access, coordination of benefits, pricing adjustments, recordkeeping and audits.



Formulary Regulation



Government Agreements-Our PBM business is subject to the terms of a 2008 consent order entered into with a number of states impacting certain of our PBM business practices, including matters relating to our relationships with clients, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies, plan members, prescribers and pharmacists.





In January 2009, we entered into separate settlement agreements with the FTC and the HHS Office for Civil Rights (“OCR”) resolving a joint investigation prompted by 2006 media reports of disposal of patient information in dumpsters at a limited number of CVS/pharmacy locations. As part of the FTC settlement, we agreed to maintain appropriate enterprise-wide information security policies and procedures during the twenty-year term of the agreement. The FTC settlement also provides for periodic compliance











monitoring by an external assessor. As part of the OCR settlement, we agreed to maintain appropriate waste disposal policies and procedures, training and employee sanctions at our retail stores. The OCR settlement has a three-year term and provides for annual compliance monitoring by an external assessor.



In October 2010, the Company entered into a non-prosecution agreement and civil settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and various United States Attorneys’ Offices relating to the sale and distribution of pseudoephedrine products at certain CVS/pharmacy stores, primarily in California and Nevada. The Company also entered into a related memorandum of agreement with the DEA. The non-prosecution agreement and the memorandum of agreement contain certain ongoing compliance requirements for the Company, and failure to comply with the terms of these documents could lead to civil or criminal remedies, financial penalties and/or administrative remedies against the DEA registrations for our retail pharmacies and distribution centers.



In January 2012, the Company announced an agreement with the FTC to enter into a proposed consent order that would prohibit the Company from misrepresenting the prices or costs of Medicare Part D prescription drugs or other prices or costs associated with Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. This proposed consent order has been accepted by the FTC for public comment and remains subject to final approval.



In addition to the government agreements described above, the Company and/or its various affiliates are subject to other consent decrees or settlement agreements with various federal, state and local authorities that may contain certain ongoing reporting, monitoring or other compliance requirements for the Company. These agreements relate to such matters as privacy practices, waste disposal practices, selling expired products, environmental and safety matters, tobacco sales, marketing and advertising practices, pharmacy operations and various other business practices.



Health Reform Legislation- Congress passed major health reform legislation in 2010 known as PPACA. This legislation affects the entire health insurance system and virtually every aspect of health care in the country, although many provisions of PPACA were not effective immediately. Given that many of the regulations implementing PPACA are still being finalized and that ongoing sub-regulatory guidance is still being issued, there is considerable uncertainty as to its full impact. Further, aspects of the legislation are being challenged in lawsuits across the country, and some in Congress are seeking to repeal the law or portions of it. There have already been a number of conflicting court rulings calling into question the constitutionality of all or certain portions of PPACA, and additional judicial review, including review by the United States Supreme Court, is expected. In addition to establishing the framework for every individual to have health coverage beginning in 2014, PPACA enacted a number of significant health care reforms. While these reforms may not affect our business directly, they affect the coverage and plan designs that are or will be provided by many of our health plan clients. As a result, they could indirectly impact many of our services and business practices.



Among the more significant PPACA provisions is the requirement for health insurers to meet a minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) to avoid having to pay rebates to enrollees. The MLR requires insurers to break out clinical, quality improvement and administrative costs. HHS issued an interim final regulation on the MLR in December 2010 that includes an example that could be interpreted to suggest that the differential between the drug price charged by PBMs to health plans and the amount reimbursed to retail pharmacies (commonly referred to as “differential” or “spread”) should be excluded from claims costs. Subsequent sub-regulatory guidance remained consistent with this interpretation, although it made clear that clinical services performed by a PBM could be included in claims costs. Health plan clients that are subject to the MLR requirements may request pricing modifications, include requests to contract with our PBM using pass-through retail network pricing.



Another PPACA provision requires PBMs that contract with a Medicare Part D plan or a qualified health plan offered through a health insurance exchange to disclose certain information to HHS, the Medicare Part D plan or the health insurance exchange. Among the information that must be disclosed is the generic dispensing rate for different types of pharmacies, the aggregate amount and types of rebates and other discounts negotiated on behalf of, and passed through to, the plan, and the aggregate amount of any differential. Although some of these items, such as differential, were required to be reported for Part D in 2011 per CMS guidance, the full reporting will be required for Medicare Part D upon the issuance of a final rule implementing the requirements, which is expected in 2012 and for qualified health plans in 2014 upon the implementation of the health insurance exchanges to be established under PPACA. PPACA also increases the obligations of Part D plan sponsors to report rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers to enable calculation of new annual fees being imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers related to branded drug sales. PPACA also made significant changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, fraud and abuse laws and tax provisions, some of which are discussed elsewhere in this Government Regulation section.



Managed Care Reform- In addition to health reforms enacted by PPACA, proposed legislation has been considered at the state level, and legislation has been enacted in several states, aimed primarily at providing additional rights and access to drugs to individuals enrolled in managed care plans. This legislation may impact the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans sponsored by our PBM health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them. Some of these initiatives would, among other things: (i) require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary; (ii) give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice if they have been denied care; and/or (iii) mandate the content of the appeals or grievance process when a health plan member is denied coverage. Both the scope of the managed care reform proposals











considered by state legislatures and reforms enacted by states to date vary greatly, and the scope of future legislation that may be enacted is uncertain.



Medicare Part D- The MMA created Medicare Part D, the Medicare drug benefit program, in January 2006. Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Medicare benefits under Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B are eligible for drug coverage under Medicare Part D. Regulations implementing Medicare Part D included requirements relating to developing and administering formularies, establishing pharmacy networks, marketing of Medicare Part D plans, processing and adjudicating claims at point of sale and compliance with electronic prescribing standards. The Medicare Part D program has undergone significant legislative and regulatory changes since its inception, including changes made by PPACA. Effective for the 2010 plan year, CMS issued a regulation requiring that any “differential” or “spread” be reported as an administrative cost rather than a drug cost of the plan sponsor for purposes of calculating certain government subsidy payments and the drug price to be charged to enrollees. This change resulted in Medicare Part D plan sponsors contracting for pass-through pricing for their retail networks rather than pricing that included the use of retail network “differential” or “spread”.



PPACA expanded the Medicare Part D benefit effective for the 2011 plan year by implementing the coverage gap discount program under which participating manufacturers fund discounts of 50% on brand drugs obtained during the coverage gap or “donut hole,” and starting the phase-out of the coverage gap for generic drugs, which is to be completed by 2020.



PPACA also requires the Secretary of HHS to develop rules for shorter dispensing periods for enrollees in long-term care facilities in order to reduce waste. Several of the PPACA changes will require significant adjudication and reporting systems modifications. In October 2011, CMS issued a proposed rule on Part D that, among other things, would establish a daily cost sharing rate as a form of drug utilization management and certain fraud, waste and abuse controls. The proposed rule also permits CMS to terminate a Part D sponsor’s contract if it performs poorly against CMS performance criteria, known as “star ratings,” for three consecutive years.



Medicare Part D continues to attract a high degree of legislative and regulatory scrutiny, and the applicable government rules and regulations continue to evolve. Accordingly, it is possible that legislative and regulatory developments could materially affect our Medicare Part D business or profitability.



Mental Health Parity Legislation- The Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, and its implementing regulations require group health plans that provide both medical/surgical benefits and mental health or substance abuse disorder benefits to ensure that the financial requirements and treatment limitations that apply to the mental health and substance abuse disorder benefits are no more restrictive than those that apply to the medical/surgical benefits. While the implementing regulations contain a special rule allowing for “multi-tiered prescription drug benefits” that meet certain conditions, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the application of this rule. This has caused some group health plans to consider dropping mental health benefits, including drugs that treat these conditions, to avoid being found in violation of the regulation.



Network Access Legislation- A majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting the ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Certain “any willing provider” legislation may require us or our clients to admit a non-participating pharmacy if such pharmacy is willing and able to meet the plan’s price and other applicable terms and conditions for network participation. These laws vary significantly from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application. ERISA plans and payors have challenged the application of such laws on the basis of ERISA preemption. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings. In addition, the MMA contains an “any willing provider” requirement for pharmacy participation in Medicare Part D, and CMS has interpreted this as requiring that a Medicare Part D sponsor, for each type of pharmacy in its network, allow participation by any pharmacy that meets the applicable terms and conditions for participation. To the extent any state or federal any willing provider laws are determined to apply to us or to certain of our clients or to the pharmacy networks we manage for our PBM clients, such laws could negatively impact the services and economic benefits achievable through a limited pharmacy provider network.



Some states also have enacted “due process” legislation that may (i) prohibit the removal of a provider from a pharmacy network and/or (ii) impact how we conduct audits of network pharmacies and recover audit discrepancies, except in compliance with certain procedures. Other state legislation prohibits days’ supply limitations or co-payment or other pricing differentials between mail service and retail pharmacy providers. In addition, under Medicare Part D, CMS requires that if a Part D sponsor offers a 90-day supply at mail, it must allow retail network pharmacies to also offer a 90-day supply on the same terms.



PBM Laws and Regulation- Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities in a comprehensive manner has been introduced or enacted in a number of states. This legislation varies in scope and often contains provisions that: (i) impose certain fiduciary duties upon PBMs to clients and plan members; (ii) require PBMs to disclose and/or remit to clients or their plan members certain rebates, discounts and other amounts received by PBMs related to the sale of drugs; (iii) regulate product substitution and intervention; (iv) impose broad disclosure obligations upon PBMs to clients and their plan members and/or (v) impose licensing or registration requirements. To the extent states or other government entities enact legislation regulating PBMs that survive legal challenges to their











enforceability, such legislation could adversely impact our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms in locations where the legislation is in effect.



In addition, certain quasi-regulatory organizations, including the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy and the NAIC have issued model regulations or may propose future regulations concerning PBMs and/or PBM activities. Similarly, credentialing organizations such as the National Committee for Quality Assurance and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (“URAC”) may establish voluntary standards regarding PBM or specialty pharmacy activities. For example, URAC has issued PBM accreditation standards for PBMs serving the commercially insured market, and Caremark is currently accredited as a PBM by URAC. While the actions of these quasi-regulatory or standard-setting organizations do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their requirements or recommendations and influence client requirements for PBM or specialty pharmacy services. Moreover, any standards established by these organizations could also impact our health plan clients and/or the services we provide to them.



In addition to state statutes and regulations, we are also subject to state common laws to the extent applied to PBMs through judicial interpretation or otherwise. Potential common law claims could involve, for example, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, fraud or unjust enrichment.



Pharmacy and Professional Licensure and Regulation- We are subject to state and federal statutes and regulations governing the operation of retail and mail pharmacies, repackaging of drug products, wholesale distribution, dispensing of controlled substance and listed chemical products, and medical and controlled substance waste disposal. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances, and some state regulations require compliance with standards established by the United States Pharmacopeia with respect to the packaging, storing and shipping of pharmaceuticals. Federal and state controlled substance laws require us to register our pharmacies and distribution centers with the DEA and state controlled substances agencies and to comply with security, recordkeeping, inventory control, personnel and labeling standards in order to possess and dispense controlled substances and listed chemical products.



We also are subject to regulation by the DEA and state pharmacy boards in connection with our online pharmacies because we dispense prescription drugs pursuant to refill orders received through our Internet websites, among other methods. Numerous state laws also exist affecting our receipt and processing of electronic prescription drug orders.



Certain violations of the federal controlled substances laws can subject the Company, its pharmacies and distribution centers, and individual pharmacy personnel to criminal and civil penalties and can also result in administrative action by the DEA, including suspension or revocation of a pharmacy’s or distribution center’s registration to distribute controlled substances and/or listed chemical products. State authorities and state boards of pharmacy similarly have the authority to impose both monetary penalties and disciplinary sanctions, including revocation of a pharmacy’s or individual pharmacist’s license to dispense controlled substances, and these penalties and sanctions are in addition to sanctions imposed under the federal controlled substances laws. Certain violations of these federal and state legal requirements can also trigger other consequences for the Company’s business and could potentially impact our eligibility to participate in federal health care programs.



Other statutes and regulations may affect our mail service operations. For example, the FTC requires mail service sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the products to be sold, to fill mail service orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. In addition, the United States Postal Service and the Department of Transportation each has regulatory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail or in commerce, and state licensing authorities may restrict the types of personnel who may work in mail service operations.



Our pharmacists, technicians and certain other health care professionals are subject to state regulation of their profession, and our employees who are engaged in a professional practice must satisfy applicable state licensing or registration requirements and comply with applicable professional standards. In addition, they must comply with any applicable federal or state requirements for participation in government-sponsored health care programs. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us and our employees to disciplinary action, including fines, penalties or sanctions, could impact our ability to obtain or retain reimbursement for services provided to participants of government-sponsored health care programs and/or could cause our licenses and permits and our employees’ licenses to be suspended or revoked.











Plan Design Legislation



Privacy and Confidentiality Requirements- Many of our activities involve the receipt, use and disclosure by us of personally identifiable information (“PII”) as permitted in accordance with applicable federal and state privacy and data security laws, which require organizations to provide appropriate privacy protections and security safeguards for such information. In addition to PII, we use and disclose de-identified data for analytical and other purposes.



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations issued thereunder (collectively “HIPAA”) impose extensive requirements on the way in which health plans, health care providers, health care clearinghouses (known as “covered entities”) and their business associates use, disclose and safeguard protected health information (“PHI”). HIPAA also gives individuals certain rights with respect to their PHI. For most uses and disclosures of PHI other than for treatment, payment, health care operations or certain public policy purposes, HIPAA generally requires that covered entities obtain the individual’s written authorization, Criminal penalties and civil sanctions may be imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA standards.





In addition to HIPAA, most states have enacted health care information confidentiality laws which limit the disclosure of confidential medical information. These state laws supersede HIPAA to the extent they are more protective of individual privacy than is HIPAA. Most states have also enacted legislation and regulations governing the security of PII and specifying notification requirements for any security breaches involving PII.



In addition to HIPAA and HITECH, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (“GINA”) was signed into law in May 2008, and proposed and interim final regulations were issued under it in 2009 and 2010. GINA prohibits discrimination based on genetic information in health coverage (Title I) and employment (Title II). Under GINA, health plans are not permitted to use or disclose genetic information for underwriting purposes, which includes eligibility determinations. They also may not collect genetic information, such as by requiring genetic testing, except in very limited circumstances.



Reimbursement-A significant portion of our net revenue is derived directly from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs, and we are therefore subject to, among other laws and regulations, federal and state reimbursement laws and regulatory requirements, anti-remuneration laws, the Stark Law and/or federal and state false claims laws. Sanctions for violating these federal and/or state laws may include, without limitation, recoupment or reduction of government reimbursement amounts, criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government health care programs. Also, we provide products and services to managed care entities that provide services to beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs, as well as employers and other entities that qualify for the Medicare Part D drug subsidy and/or the early retiree reinsurance program created under PPACA. Some of these federal and state laws and regulations impose requirements on our PBM and our retail pharmacies to coordinate benefits among private health plans and











government-sponsored health care programs when a customer or plan member has benefits coverage through more than one insurance company or other payor. In addition, our PBM has contractual agreements to process, on behalf of PBM clients, reimbursement claims submitted by or on behalf of federal and state government agencies following payment by the government agencies of claims that should have been submitted by members to private health plans as the primary source of benefits coverage. These claims are commonly known as “pay and chase” claims, and we and our PBM clients are subject to federal and state laws and regulations impacting how these claims are processed and reimbursed. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further information.







Certain state Medicaid programs only allow for reimbursement to pharmacies residing in the state or in a border state. While we believe that we can service our current Medicaid customers through our existing pharmacies, there can be no assurance that additional states will not enact in-state dispensing requirements for their Medicaid programs. Some states have adopted legislation and regulations requiring that a pharmacy participating in the state Medicaid program give the state the “best price” that the pharmacy makes available to any third party payor, and some states have enacted legislation and regulations impacting the definition of a pharmacy’s “usual and customary” price (U&C), including whether pricing offered by pharmacies pursuant to discount card or similar programs should be considered in determining U&C. These requirements are sometimes referred to as “most favored nation pricing” payment systems. Other states have enacted “unitary pricing” legislation, which mandates that all wholesale purchasers of drugs within the state be given access to the same discounts and incentives. A number of states have also recently introduced legislation seeking to control drug prices through various statutory limits, rebates or discounts extending to one or more categories of the state’s population.











Changes in reporting of AWP, AMP, ASP or other adjustments that may be made regarding the reimbursement of drug payments by Medicaid and Medicare, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and/or could impact our ability to negotiate discounts or rebates with manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs or retail and mail pharmacies. In some circumstances, such changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from MCOs that contract with government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits.



Reimportation





Retail Clinics-States also regulate retail clinics operated by nurse practitioners or physician assistants through physician oversight, lab licensing and the prohibition of the corporate practice of medicine. A number of states have implemented or proposed laws or regulations that impact certain components of retail clinic operations such as physician oversight, signage, third party contracting requirements, bathroom facilities, and scope of services. These laws and regulations may affect the operation and expansion of our owned and managed retail clinics.



Retiree Drug Subsidy-The MMA created a drug subsidy program available to certain employer, union and other group plans that provides retiree coverage to Medicare Part D eligible individuals that is at least equivalent to Medicare Part D coverage. The subsidy is equal to 28% of drug costs, and is currently tax-free. However, for plan years beginning in 2013, PPACA eliminates the tax deductibility of the retiree drug subsidy payment received by sponsors of retiree drug plans. This may cause some employers to transition their retirees to employer-sponsored Medicare Part D plans. As part of PPACA, Congress established a new temporary early retiree reinsurance program providing reimbursement to employer and union sponsors of participating employment-based plans for a portion of the cost of health benefits for early retirees aged 55 to 64 and their spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents. The program reimburses sponsors for certain claims between $15,000 and $90,000. Congress appropriated funding of $5 billion for this temporary program, which became effective June 1, 2010. The program ends when the funding is exhausted, but no later than January 1, 2014.



Safety Regulation-The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended (“OSHA”), establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated under OSHA, and various record keeping, reporting and procedural requirements. Many of these OSHA standards, as well as various state and local laws and regulations pertaining to employee safety and health, apply to our operations. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or other sanctions by government authorities.



Self-Referral Laws-The federal law commonly known as the “Stark Law” prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries for “designated health services” (which include, among other things, outpatient prescription drugs, home health services and durable medical equipment and supplies) to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has a “financial relationship” and prohibits the entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting a claim to Medicare or Medicaid for the designated health service furnished under the prohibited referral. Possible penalties for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment, refund of amounts collected in violation of the statute, civil monetary penalties and Medicare and Medicaid program exclusion. The Stark Law contains certain statutory and regulatory exceptions for physician referrals and physician financial relationships, including certain physician consulting arrangements, fair market value purchases by physicians and the provision of electronic prescribing technology to physicians.



State statutes and regulations also prohibit payments for the referral of individuals by physicians to health care providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship. Some of these state statutes and regulations apply to services reimbursed by governmental as well as private payors. Violation of these laws may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of pharmacy or health care provider licenses, fines and criminal penalties. The laws and exceptions or safe harbors may vary from the federal Stark Law and vary significantly from state to state. The laws are often vague, and, in many cases, have not been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies.











State Insurance Laws-Fee-for-service PDPs and our PBM service contracts, including those in which we assume certain risk under performance guarantees or similar arrangements, are generally not subject to insurance regulation by the states. However, if a PBM offers to provide prescription drug coverage on a capitated basis or otherwise accepts material financial risk in providing pharmacy benefits, laws and regulations in various states may be applicable. Such laws may require that the party at risk become licensed as an insurer, establish reserves or otherwise demonstrate financial viability. Laws that may apply in such cases include insurance laws and laws governing MCOs and limited prepaid health service plans.



During 2011, the Company offered PDPs through its SilverScript and Accendo insurance subsidiaries and through Pennsylvania Life, the insurance subsidiary acquired as part of the UAM Medicare Part D Business in April 2011. These insurance subsidiaries each must be licensed as a risk-bearing entity under applicable state laws or they must have obtained a waiver of the licensing requirement from CMS. Each of these subsidiaries is licensed in all states in which they offer PDPs and do not operate under any Medicare Part D waivers. As licensed insurance companies, they are subject to various state insurance regulations that generally require, among other things, maintenance of capital and surplus requirements, review of certain material transactions and the filing of various financial, licensing and operational reports. Pursuant to the MMA, state insurance licensing, insurance agent/broker licensure and solvency laws and regulations are generally applicable to PDPs, but the application of other state laws to Medicare Part D is generally preempted by Medicare Part D to the extent that Medicare Part D regulates the issue.



Some states have laws that prohibit submitting a false claim or making a false record or statement in order to secure reimbursement from an insurance company. These state laws vary, and violation of them may lead to the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, several states have passed legislation governing the prompt payment of claims that requires, among other things, that health plans and payors pay claims within certain prescribed time periods or pay specified interest penalties. These laws vary from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application, and it is not clear the extent to which they may apply to our clients or to us. Certain health plans and payors may be exempt from such laws on the basis of ERISA preemption, but the scope of ERISA preemption is unclear.



State Prescription Drug Assistance Programs- Many states have established or modified their drug assistance programs for the elderly so that they constitute qualified state pharmacy assistance programs (“SPAPs”) that supplement Medicare Part D. Payments by qualified SPAPs on behalf of a Medicare Part D enrollee are treated under Medicare Part D as if they were made by the enrollees themselves, thereby counting towards the enrollees’ true out-of-pocket costs and helping them qualify for catastrophic coverage sooner. Medicare Part D plans are required to coordinate benefits with SPAPs, including allowing SPAPs to subsidize the Medicare Part D premiums of their members and/or their Medicare Part D cost sharing. Some qualified SPAPs with state authorization have also received permission from CMS to enroll members who do not choose their own Medicare Part D plans into PDPs.



Telemarketing and Other Outbound Contacts-Certain federal and state laws give the FTC, Federal Communications Commission and state attorneys general law enforcement tools to regulate telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts such as phone calls, texts or emails. These laws may, among other things, impose registration requirements, require disclosures of specific information, prohibit misrepresentations, limit when, where and how consumers may be contacted, require consumer consent prior to being contacted, require transmission of Caller ID information, prohibit certain abandoned outbound calls, prohibit unauthorized billing, set payment restrictions for the sale of certain goods and services, require the establishment of certain policies and training of personnel and require the retention of specific business records.



Third Party Administration and Other State Licensure Laws- Many states have licensure or registration laws governing certain types of administrative organizations, such as preferred provider organizations, third party administrators and companies that provide utilization review services. Several states also have licensure or registration laws governing the organizations that provide or administer consumer card programs (also known as cash card or discount card programs). The scope of these laws differs significantly from state to state, and the application of such laws to our activities often is unclear.



Whistleblower Statutes-Certain federal and state laws, including the FCA, contain provisions permitting the filing ofqui tamor “whistleblower” lawsuits alleging violations of such laws. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring lawsuits on behalf of the federal or state government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the government, and there is generally no minimum evidentiary or legal threshold required for bringing such a lawsuit. These lawsuits are typically filed under seal with the applicable federal or state enforcement authority, and such authority is required to review the allegations made and to determine whether it will intervene in the lawsuit and take the lead in the litigation. If the government intervenes in the lawsuit and prevails, the whistleblower plaintiff filing the initial complaint may share in any settlement or judgment. If the government does not intervene in the lawsuit, the whistleblower plaintiff may pursue the action independently. Because aqui tamlawsuit typically is filed under seal pending a government review of the allegations, the defendant generally may not be aware of the lawsuit until the government determines whether or not it will intervene or until the lawsuit is otherwise unsealed, a process which may take years. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further information.











We believe that we are in material compliance with existing laws and regulations applicable to our retail and PBM businesses. We have implemented standard operating procedures, internal controls and a compliance and integrity program designed to help ensure such compliance, and we monitor legislative and judicial developments that could impact our business practices in an effort to ensure future compliance.



We can give no assurance, however, that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on: (i) future enactment of new health care or other laws or regulations; (ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, including the laws and regulations described in this Government Regulation section, as they may relate to our business, the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or to the health care industry generally; (iii) pending or future federal or state governmental investigations of our business or the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or of the health care industry generally; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pendingqui tamlawsuit against us, whether sealed or unsealed, or in any futurequi tamlawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy services, retail pharmacy or retail clinic industry or the health care industry generally.



Available Information



CVS Caremark Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our corporate office is located at One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “CVS.” General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company’s Web site athttp://info.cvscaremark.com. Our financial press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge within the Investors section of our Web site athttp://www.cvscaremark.com/investors. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that Web site ishttp://www.sec.gov.



