10-K405


c67231e10-k405.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report Zimmer Holdings, Inc.


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For year ended December 31,

Commission file number 001-16407

ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(574) 267-6131

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.
Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

As of February 13, 2002,
193,966,174 shares of the registrant’s $.01 par value
common stock were outstanding. The aggregate market value of
shares held by non-affiliates was $6,654,870,206 (based on
closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange on
such date and assuming solely for the purpose of this
calculation that all directors and executive officers of the
registrant are “affiliates”).

Documents Incorporated by Reference



This annual report contains certain statements
that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
federal securities laws. When used in this report, the words
“may,” “will,” “should,”
“would,” “anticipate,” “estimate,”
“expect,” “plan,” “believe,”
“predict,” “potential,” “intend”
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties
include, but are not limited to, price and product competition,
rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence
on new product development, the mix of products and services,
customer demand for products and services, the ability to
successfully integrate acquired companies, control of costs and
expenses, the ability to form and implement alliances, changes
in reimbursement programs by third-party payors, effects of
complying with applicable governmental regulations, product
liability and intellectual property litigation losses, general
industry and market conditions and growth rates and general
domestic and international economic conditions including
interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Readers
of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
these forward-looking statements, since, while the Company
believes the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements
are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these
forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This
cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking
statements contained in this report.

ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.

2001 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT




PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Zimmer Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
was incorporated on January 12, 2001, as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as part of a
previously announced plan by Bristol-Myers Squibb to create a
separate company relating to the design, development,
manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic reconstructive
implants, fracture management products and other products used
for orthopaedic and general surgery. Zimmer, Inc., the
Company’s predecessor founded in 1927, was acquired by
Bristol-Myers Squibb in 1972 and along with its wholly-owned
subsidiaries and certain other Bristol-Myers Squibb operations
comprised the orthopaedics business of Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms
“Company” and “Zimmer” as used herein refer
to Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries and the
predecessor orthopaedics business operated under Bristol-Myers
Squibb.

On July 25, 2001, Bristol-Myers Squibb
transferred the assets and liabilities of its orthopaedic
business to the Company. On August 6, 2001, Bristol-Myers
Squibb distributed all of the shares of the Company’s
common stock to Bristol-Myers Squibb stockholders in the form of
a dividend of one share of Company common stock, and the
associated preferred stock purchase right, for every ten shares
of Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock. Bristol-Myers Squibb
received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the
transfer of the orthopaedic business to the Company and the
subsequent distribution of all Company common stock to
Bristol-Myers Squibb stockholders qualified as a tax free
transaction.

The Company has operations in 20 countries and
markets products in 70 countries, with headquarters in Warsaw,
Indiana, and manufacturing, distribution and warehousing and/or
office facilities in more than 50 locations worldwide.

Products

The Company is a global leader in the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic
reconstructive implants and fracture management products.
Orthopaedic reconstructive implants restore joint function lost
due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips,
shoulders, and elbows. Fracture management products are devices
used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone or tissue
to support the body’s natural healing process. The Company
also manufactures and markets orthopaedic surgical products
which include surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid
in orthopaedic surgical procedures. The Company manages its
operations through three major geographic areas – the
Americas, which is comprised principally of the United States
and includes other North, Central and South American markets;
Asia Pacific, which is comprised primarily of Japan and includes
other Asian and Pacific markets; and Europe, which is comprised
principally of Europe and includes the Middle East and Africa.
Information about geographic segments can be found in Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein
under Item 8.

Reconstructive
Implants

Reconstructive implants restore joint function
lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips,
shoulders and elbows. The majority of reconstructive implant
procedures restore joint function lost due to degenerative
diseases such as arthritis and relieve pain in knees and hips.

Knee
Implants

Total knee surgeries typically include a femoral
component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an
articulating surface (placed on the tibial tray).

Knee replacement surgeries include first-time
joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the
replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant product or
component from a previous procedure.



Knee implants are designed to accommodate
different levels of ligament stabilization of the joint. While
some knee implant designs, called cruciate retaining designs,
require the retention of the posterior cruciate ligament, other
designs, called posterior stabilized designs, provide joint
stability without the posterior cruciate ligament. There are
also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which
treat limited knee degeneration and involve the replacement of
only one side or compartment of the knee with a unicompartmental
knee prosthesis. The Company offers a wide range of products for
specialized knee procedures, including the following brands:

Hip Implants

Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the
head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis
(acetabulum) of the natural hip and include first time
joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the
replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant product or
component from a previous procedure. The femur is the long bone
between the pelvis and the knee. The acetabulum is the
cup-shaped portion of the pelvis. Historically, most hip implant
procedures have involved the use of bone cement to attach the
prosthetic components to the surrounding bone. Today, many
femoral and acetabulum cup replacement components are porous
which means they do not require bone cement



because bone can actually grow into, and onto,
the implant surface. The Company’s hip replacement products
are among the industry’s leading brands, which include:


trademark
of Mayo Foundation



minimally invasive principles to additional
procedures. A distinct medical education process, the

MIS

Institute will also be created to facilitate the training
required for these procedures. One of the surgical approaches
employed for the

MIS

hip procedure uses two small
portals, each less than two inches in diameter. Standard
implants are used in the procedure. The incision for a
traditional, open hip replacement is as much as 12 inches long.
Other less invasive approaches such as a “mini”
incision are also being evaluated.

Other
Reconstructive Implants

The Coonrad/ Morrey product line is a leading
family of elbow replacement implant products and the

Bigliani/ Flatow

® shoulder product line gives the
Company a significant share of the global shoulder implant
market. These systems are designed to treat arthritic conditions
and fractures as well as to enhance the outcome of primary or
revision surgery. Both systems offer surgeons a wide variety of
implants and instrumentation to accommodate differing surgical
philosophies and patient needs.

Fracture
Management

Fracture management products include devices used
primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to
support the body’s natural healing process. The most common
surgical stabilization of bone fracture involves the internal
fixation of bone fragments. This stabilization can involve the
use of a wide assortment of plates, screws, rods, wires and
pins. In addition, tissue attachment devices are used to treat
soft tissue trauma. The Company offers a comprehensive line of
products designed for use in the fixation of fractures,
including hip fixation products, plates, screws, pins, wires and
nails. The recently expanded fracture management product line
enables the Company to offer surgeons cost-effective, quality
products, including:


trademark
of Immedica, Inc.



Orthopaedic
Surgical Products

The Company manufactures and markets other
surgical products, which surgeons use for both orthopaedic and
non-orthopaedic procedures, including tourniquets, blood
management systems, wound debridement products, powered
instruments for use in surgical procedures, pain management
devices and orthopaedic softgoods, which provide support and/or
heat retention and compression for trauma of the knee, ankle,
back and upper extremities, including the shoulder, elbow, neck
and wrist. The Company has developed, and intends to continue
developing, technologically advanced surgical products to
support its reconstructive implant and fracture management
product systems in the operating room environment with a focus
on blood and pain management systems.

OrthoPAT

®


Autotransfusion System. This innovative autotransfusion system,
	which includes patented disposable components, has been
	specifically designed to collect and prepare a patient’s
	own blood for re-infusion during and following an open surgical
	procedure. Depending on the nature of the surgery performed,
	multiple

OrthoPAT

autotransfusion units may be required
	for a single procedure. The Company markets

OrthoPAT

Autotransfusion System through an exclusive distribution
	arrangement in the United States and Canada.

Pulsavac®

Plus
	Wound Debridement System. The Company recently introduced the

Pulsavac

Plus lavage system, a variable-powered, fully
	disposable debridement system with the versatility to meet the
	needs of today’s operating room.

Palm
	Pump

TM 4

Pain Management System. The

Palm Pump

Pain Management
	System, developed and manufactured by Sorenson Medical, Inc.,
	provides a continuous infusion of local anesthetic directly to a
	surgical site. The pump, designed for use both during and after
	surgery, allows surgeons and patients to adjust anesthesia
	levels depending on pain levels. Designed to dull sensation in
	pre-defined surgical locations only, this pump avoids altering
	sensation in other body parts or depressing patient
	consciousness. In addition, used as a post-operating pain
	management device, the pump can increase patient mobility,
	facilitate rehabilitation and increase patient satisfaction. The
	pump may have particularly strong application potential in
	minimally invasive surgical procedures and would expedite a
	patient’s return to mobility after such procedures. The
	Company markets this pump through an exclusive distribution
	arrangement in the United States.

Product Development

The Company is engaged in ongoing research and
development to introduce clinically advanced new materials,
product designs and surgical techniques. The product development
function is integrated with strategic brand marketing and
manufacturing efforts, which allows the Company to understand
its customers’ needs and to respond more quickly with
top-quality products. The rapid commercialization of innovative
new materials, product designs and surgical techniques, one of
the Company’s core strategies, has been an important driver
of sales growth in recent years.

New products, procedures, techniques and
instruments introduced since 1997 include the

ZMR

hip
system, the

Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, the

Longevity

Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liner for hip
cups, the

M/DN

intramedullary nail, the

Bigliani/
Flatow

shoulder implant, the

Prolong

Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene for total knee replacement,

M/G

Unicompartmental Knee System with

MIS

instrumentation,

Zimmer

Plates and Screws internal
fracture fixation system, the

TransFx

External Fixation
System and the Trabecular Metal Monoblock Cup.

The Company is actively broadening its product
offerings in each of the product categories and exploring new
technologies that have applications in multiple areas. For the
years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company
spent approximately $71.6 million, $52.0 million and
$45.2 million,


trademark
of Haemonetics Corporation


trademark
of Sorenson Medical, Inc.



respectively, on research and development. The
increase in research and development expenditures has
accelerated the output of new reconstructive implant and
fracture management products through advanced new materials,
product designs and surgical techniques. The Company’s
primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw,
Indiana, and employs more than 330 research and development
employees.

The Company will continue to identify and
capitalize on external sources of innovative technologies
through possible acquisitions of other complementary products,
businesses, technology licensing arrangements and strategic
alliances. During 2001 the Company announced the creation of a
medical education process, the

MIS

Institute, to help
facilitate training for surgeons and other medical professionals
on the procedures for applying minimally invasive surgical
techniques to orthopaedic surgery. In connection with this, the
Company is working with major medical centers to evaluate and
refine an advanced minimally invasive hip replacement procedure.
In addition, the Company has developed and maintains close
relationships with a number of widely recognized orthopaedic
surgeons who assist in product research and development.

Government Regulations

The Company is subject to some degree of
government regulation with regard to its products and operations
in the countries in which it operates. It is the policy of the
Company to comply fully with all regulatory requirements
applicable to its products and operations.

In the United States, the Medical Device
Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act,
the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, the FDA Modernization Act,
and regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for
regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
of the development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of
medical devices. The FDA regulates laboratory and manufacturing
practices, labeling and record keeping for medical devices and
review of required manufacturers’ reports of adverse
experience to identify potential problems with marketed medical
devices. A few of the devices developed and marketed by the
Company are in a category for which the FDA has implemented
stringent clinical investigation and pre-market approval
requirements. The FDA has the authority to halt the distribution
of certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or
misbranded medical devices; or order the repair, replacement or
refund of the costs of such devices. There are also certain
requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must
be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of the
Company’s products.

In many of the foreign countries in which the
Company markets its products, it is subject to regulations
affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging
requirements, labeling requirements and import restrictions.
Many of the regulations applicable to the Company’s devices
and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA.
The member countries of the European Union have adopted the
European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of
medical device regulations for all member countries. These
regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and
distribute medical devices in European Union member countries to
obtain Community European (CE) marks for their products.
The Company has authorization to place the CE mark on products
it distributes in European Union countries.

Regulatory requirements affecting the Company and
its products have continued to increase. It has always been the
practice of the Company to comply with all regulatory
requirements governing its operations and products; and the
Company believes that the manufacturing, quality control and
internal control procedures that it employs meet the
requirements of the regulations in all material respects.

Government agencies and legislative bodies in the
United States and throughout the world influence reimbursement
rates to varying degrees. The Company believes that its
experience in dealing with governmental regulatory requirements,
its efficient means of distribution and its emphasis on the
ongoing development of efficacious and technologically advanced
products should enable it to continue to compete effectively
within this regulated environment.



The orthopaedic industry is subject to various
government regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse,
including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws.
Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil
sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and
exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs,
including Medicare, Medicaid, VA health programs and
CHAMPUS. The scope and enforcement of these laws and regulations
are uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light
of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. The Company
believes that its operations are in material compliance with
these laws.

The Company’s facilities and operations are
subject to various government environmental and occupational
health and safety requirements of the United States and foreign
countries, including those relating to discharges of substances
in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal
of wastes and the cleanup of properties by pollutants. The
Company believes it is currently in material compliance with
such requirements.

Sales and Marketing

The Company has operations in 20 countries and
markets its products in 70 countries. Globally, the Company
manages its business through three major geographic
areas — the Americas, which is comprised principally
of the United States and includes other North, Central and South
American markets; Asia Pacific, which is comprised principally
of Japan and includes other Asian and Pacific markets; and
Europe, which is comprised principally of Europe and includes
the Middle East and Africa. Company products are distributed in
these regions primarily through networks of agents and
distributors who market and sell to orthopaedic surgeons, third
party distributors, hospitals and surgery centers, among others.

The Company’s primary customers include
orthopaedic surgeons, hospitals and healthcare purchasing
organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large
multinational enterprises to independent surgeons. A majority of
U.S. hospitals and surgeons belong to at least one group
purchasing organization. No individual end user accounted for
over 0.5 percent of net sales.

The Company utilizes more than 1,200 sales
associates, sales managers and support personnel, some of whom
are employed by independent distributors. The Company invests a
significant amount of time and expense in providing training in
such areas as product features and benefits, how to use specific
products and how to best assist surgeons. The presence of sales
representatives is deemed by surgeons and hospitals to be
necessary in a high number of procedures and the extensive sales
training provided by the Company enables representatives, when
requested, to make meaningful contributions during surgeries.
Salesforce representatives rely heavily on strong technical
selling skills, medical education and in-surgery staff technical
support.

In response to the different healthcare systems
throughout the world, the Company’s sales and marketing
strategies and organizational structures differ by region. The
Company has, however, carefully integrated a global approach to
salesforce training, marketing and medical education into each
locality to provide consistent, high quality service. The
Company sponsors more than 300 medical education events
each year for and with orthopaedic surgeons around the world.

The Americas is the largest region, accounting
for approximately 67 percent of 2001 sales, with the United
States accounting for the vast majority of sales in this region.
The U.S. salesforce consists of 26 independent
distributors with more than 650 sales associates, sales managers
and support personnel, all of whom sell Company products
exclusively. Also, the Company has concentrated on negotiating
contracts with buying groups and managed care accounts and has
increased unit growth by linking the level of discount received
to sales growth.

The Asia Pacific region accounted for
approximately 22 percent of 2001 sales with Japan being the
largest foreign market, constituting the vast majority of sales
in this region. In Japan the Company maintains a hybrid network
of approximately 130 dealers and approximately 150 direct sales
associates who have built strong relationships with leading
orthopaedic surgeons. The knowledge and skills of sales
associates play a critical role in Japan because many doctors
perform orthopaedic surgeries infrequently



and must rely on the orthopaedic salesforce for
extensive technical support. Also, in many hospitals, operating
room nurses do not specialize and often have relatively minimal
knowledge of, and experience with, orthopaedic instrumentation
and procedures. The Company intends to continue to strengthen
its relationships with Japanese surgeons through its medical
education conferences.

The European region accounted for approximately
11 percent of 2001 sales, with the principal countries in
which the Company operates being France, Germany, Italy, Spain
and the United Kingdom. The Company’s salesforce in this
region is also comprised of direct sales associates, independent
distributors and commissioned agents.

Competition

The orthopaedics industry is highly competitive.
In the global markets for reconstructive implants, fracture
management and orthopaedic surgical products, major competitors
include J&J DePuy Orthopaedics (a subsidiary of Johnson
& Johnson); Biomet, Inc.; Stryker Corp.; Smith & Nephew,
Inc.; Sulzer Medica Ltd. and Synthes-Stratec. Competition within
the industry is primarily based on technology, quality,
reputation, customer relationships and service.

In the Americas, J&J DePuy, Biomet, Inc.
and Stryker Corp., along with the Company, account for a large
majority of the total reconstructive implant sales.

In the Asia Pacific market for reconstructive
implant and fracture management products, the Company competes
primarily with J&J DePuy and Stryker Corp. as well as
regional companies, including Kyocera and MDM. Factors, such as
the dealer system, complex regulatory environments and the
accompanying inability to compete on price, make it difficult
for smaller companies, particularly those that are non-regional,
to compete effectively with the market leaders in the Asia
Pacific region.

In Europe the reconstructive implant and fracture
management product markets are more fragmented than the Americas
or the Asia Pacific regions. The variety of philosophies held by
European surgeons regarding hip reconstruction, for example, has
allowed for the survival of many small, niche European
companies. Today most hip implants sold in Europe are products
developed specifically for Europe, although global products are
gaining acceptance. Therefore, the Company, in addition to its
global products, will continue to develop and produce specially
tailored products to meet specific European needs. The Company
believes it is a leading player in this region in the
reconstructive implant market.

The Company believes that patents and other
proprietary rights are important to the success of its business
and also relies upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing
technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop
and maintain its competitive position. The Company protects its
proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including
confidentiality agreements and proprietary information
agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who
may have access to proprietary information.

The Company owns more than 610 issued
patents and over 220 pending patent applications and has
licensed more than 440 issued patents and over
250 pending patent applications that relate to aspects of
the technology incorporated in many of its products. Also, the
Company is a party to several license agreements with unrelated
third parties pursuant to which it has obtained, for the life of
the licensed patent, the exclusive or non-exclusive rights to
these patents in consideration for royalty payments, including
highly crosslinked polyethylene. In August 2000 the Company
entered into an exclusive distribution and strategic alliance
agreement with Implex Corporation, relating to the development
and distribution of reconstructive implant and fracture
management products incorporating Trabecular Metal technology.
This agreement provides the Company, with an exclusive right,
subject to specified conditions beginning with the third quarter
of 2003, to purchase specified assets and proprietary rights of
the Implex Corporation utilizing a predefined process.

Employees

At December 31, 2001, the Company employed
more than 3,400 employees worldwide including more than
330 employees dedicated to research and development.
Approximately 2,550 employees are located



within the United States and 850 employees
are located outside of the United States, primarily in Japan and
throughout Europe. Approximately 200 North American
employees are members of a trade union covered by a collective
bargaining agreement. In addition, approximately
10 employees are represented by a union in the United
Kingdom.

In May 2000, the Company renewed a collective
bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America
covering employees at the Dover, Ohio, facility. This agreement
is effective until May 15, 2003, and is automatically
renewed on a year-to-year basis until either party gives a
written notice of its intent to terminate the agreement,
60 days prior to a termination date. The Company believes
that its relationship with its employees and the unions that
represent them is good.

Item 2.

Properties

The Company has the following properties:

In addition to the above, the Company maintains
more than 20 offices and warehouse facilities in various
countries, including the United States, Japan, Australia, France
and China. The Company believes that all of the facilities and
equipment are in good condition, well maintained and able to
operate at present levels.



Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Information pertaining to legal proceedings can
be found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are included herein under Item 8.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

Not Applicable.

PART II

Item 5.

Market
for the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters.

The Company’s common stock, $.01 par value,
is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“ZMH.” The high and low sales prices for the common
stock for the calendar quarters since August 7, 2001, (the
first day of trading of the common stock), are set forth as
follows:

QUARTERLY HIGH-LOW SHARE PRICES

The Company has not declared or paid dividends on
the common stock since becoming a public company on
August 6, 2001. Currently, the Company does not anticipate
paying any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable
future. The Company’s credit facility also restricts the
payment of dividends under certain circumstances.

The number of stockholders of record on
February 13, 2002, was 620,581. On February 13, 2002,
the closing price of the common stock, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange, was $34.45 per share.



Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data.

The financial information for each of the five
years ended December 31, 2001, is set forth below (in
millions, except per share amounts):

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS

(1)

Pro forma earnings exclude $70.0 million
	($49.9 million net of tax) in costs relating to the
	separation of the Company from its former parent and include
	interest expense related to debt expected to be assumed or
	incurred under the Credit Facility (see Separation from
	Bristol-Myers Squibb in Item 7) as if outstanding from
	January 1, 2001. Assumed average outstanding borrowings
	from January 1 to July 31, 2001 were $450 million at
	an average interest rate of 5.4 percent. Interest expense
	includes the amortization of fees. Pro forma financial
	information is presented herein to provide users of the
	financial statements with information about the impact of the
	Company’s separation from its former parent.

(2)

During 1997, management changed its strategic
	focus and operating structure by exiting certain businesses,
	closing manufacturing facilities, reorganizing its
	U.S. distributor network, centralizing its European
	operations, streamlining product lines and reducing the size of
	its organization. As a result, net earnings in 1997 were reduced
	due to pretax charges of $104 million ($64 million
	after taxes).

(3)

For periods ended prior to August 6, 2001,
	average common shares reflect the number of shares of Company
	common stock outstanding on August 6, 2001, the date all of
	the shares of Company common stock were distributed to the
	stockholders of the Company’s former parent. For periods
	subsequent to August 6, 2001, average common shares reflect
	any new issuances of common stock and the dilutive effect of
	outstanding stock options, where appropriate.



Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the
corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking
statements.

Overview

The Company is a global leader in the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic
reconstructive implants and fracture management products.
Orthopaedic reconstructive implants restore joint function lost
due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips,
shoulders and elbows. Fracture management products are devices
used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue
to support the body’s natural healing process. The Company
also manufactures and markets surgical products for orthopaedic
and general surgery. With operations in 20 countries and
products marketed in 70 countries, operations are managed
through three geographic regions — the Americas, Asia
Pacific and Europe.

Separation from Bristol-Myers Squibb

The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb on
January 12, 2001. On July 25, 2001, Bristol-Myers
Squibb transferred the assets and liabilities of its orthopaedic
business to the Company. On August 6, 2001, Bristol-Myers
Squibb distributed all of the shares of Company common stock to
Bristol-Myers Squibb stockholders in the form of a dividend of
one share of Company common stock, and the associated preferred
stock purchase right, for every ten shares of Bristol-Myers
Squibb common stock. In addition, the Company assumed all
obligations under a $600 million credit facility
(“Credit Facility”) established by the Company and its
former parent with then outstanding borrowings of
$290 million. With additional borrowings under the Credit
Facility, the Company repaid amounts due to its former parent of
approximately $90 million, and finally, the Company assumed
an additional $22 million of borrowings under the Credit
Facility for separation costs. In addition, the Company
recognized certain liabilities and obligations for pension,
postretirement, long-term disability and U.S. sales agent
benefits. Recognition of these liabilities, obligations and
other adjustments are reflected in the remaining net investment
in the Company by its former parent of $14.1 million as of
the distribution date. The distribution qualified as a tax-free
transaction under Section 355 and 368(a)(1)(1) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as more fully described in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are
included herein under Item 8.

The Company incurred $70.0 million
($49.9 million net of taxes) in costs, fees and expenses
relating to the separation from Bristol-Myers Squibb and the
related distribution of Company common stock to Bristol-Myers
Squibb stockholders which was partially funded by additional
borrowings under the credit facility. The costs, fees and
expenses are primarily for retention bonuses, legal separation
matters, professional expenses and costs of producing, printing,
mailing and distributing the information statement relating to
the distribution.

Except for separation costs and the ongoing
interest cost associated with debt assumed or incurred as of the
distribution date, the Company does not currently anticipate
that operating costs resulting from the separation from its
former parent will materially impact its cost structure as
reflected in its historical consolidated results.

Reported and Pro Forma Results of
Operations

The following discussion of operations presents
both reported and unaudited pro forma results of operations.
Unaudited pro forma financial information is presented herein to
provide users of the financial statements with information about
the impact of the Company’s separation from its former
parent. The separation costs described above are attributable to
the distribution, and the Company anticipates no further
separation costs. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement
of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2001, presented
herein, has been prepared giving effect to the exclusion of
costs incurred by



the Company to separate from its former parent
and includes a full year of interest expense on debt expected to
be assumed or incurred at the distribution date as if such debt
were outstanding from January 1, 2001. The unaudited pro
forma consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended
December 31, 2001 does not purport to represent what
results of operations actually would have been or to project
financial performance for any future period. This information
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and corresponding notes included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

The following table sets forth the reported and
pro forma consolidated results of operations for the periods
indicated (in millions, except per share amounts):

The pro forma adjustments to the accompanying
reported historical financial information for the year ended
December 31, 2001 are described below:

(a)

Reflects the add back of costs related to the
	separation of the Company from its former parent. The Company
	incurred $70 million in separation costs
	($49.9 million net of tax).

(b)

Reflects interest expense related to debt
	expected to be assumed or incurred under the Credit Facility
	(see Note 7 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
	Assumed average borrowings from January 1 through
	July 31, 2001 were $450 million at an average interest
	rate of 5.4 percent and includes the amortization of fees.

(c)

Reflects the tax effect of the pro forma
	adjustments for separation costs and interest expense using a
	rate of 26.8 percent, reflecting the non-deductibility of
	certain separation costs.



The following tables set forth sales by
geographic region and product category for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 (in millions):

Net Sales by Geographic Region

Net Sales by Product Category

Year Ended
December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31,

Net sales for the year ended December 31,
2001 increased 13 percent (increased 17 percent
constant currency). Sales growth reflected strong demand for
reconstructive implants and outstanding results in the
Company’s largest operating segment, the Americas. This
increase in the Americas was partially offset by weak local
currencies in Asia Pacific and Europe. This increase was
comprised of a 14 percent increase due to incremental
volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 3 percent
increase due to higher average selling prices and a
4 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate
fluctuations.

The introduction of new materials, techniques and
technologies has contributed to a significant increase in demand
for the Company’s products and has generally had a
favorable effect on sales as average selling prices for the new
materials and technologies generally exceed those being
replaced. For example, sales have been favorably affected by a
market shift from cruciate retaining designs to posterior
stabilized designs for total knee procedures. The Company
maintains a relatively strong market position in posterior
stabilized knees. Sales have also benefited from a market shift
from cemented components to higher priced porous components for
total hip replacements. Introduction of the

ZMR

Revision
Hip System provided the Company with a more comprehensive
offering in a market subcategory that is reported to experience
a higher growth rate than primary hip replacements.

Introduction of the

Prolong

Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene Articular Surface for total knee
replacement procedures exemplifies the Company’s continued
use of innovative materials and technologies and follows the
successful introduction of the

Longevity

Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene Liner for total hip replacement
procedures. The market acceptance of the

Longevity

Polyethylene Liner, which commands premium prices in most
markets over the standard polyethylene liner, has been rapid.

Net sales in the Americas increased
21 percent to $790.7 million compared to 2000. This
increase was comprised of a 16 percent increase due to
incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales,
together with a 5 percent increase due to higher average
selling prices. Sales of reconstructive implants increased
25 percent with strong sales in all categories. Knee sales
increased 25 percent led by growth in sales of

NexGen
Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Knee, the recently introduced

NexGen Legacy

posterior stabilized flex knee, as well as
the

M/G

Unicompartmental Knee, now featuring

MIS

instrumentation. Hip sales increased 23 percent, driven
by continued conversion to porous stems, the

ZMR



Modular Revision Hip System, Trabecular Metal
acetabular cups, and increased sales of

Trilogy

Acetabular System cups incorporating

Longevity

Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Fracture management product
sales increased 11 percent, in large part due to the
introduction of the new ZPS internal fixation devices during the
fourth quarter and increased sales in fracture instruments.

Net sales in Asia Pacific decreased
4 percent to $255.2 million compared to 2000. This
decrease was comprised of an 8 percent increase due to
incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales,
which was more than offset by a 12 percent decrease due to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales decreased
6 percent (increased 5 percent constant currency),
reflecting continuing strong sales of

NexGen Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee. Hip sales decreased
2 percent (increased 9 percent constant currency)
driven primarily by continued conversion to porous stems,
introduction of the

ZMR

Revision Hip System and sales of

Trilogy

cups incorporating

Longevity

Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Fracture management products
decreased 8 percent (increased 3 percent constant
currency) with higher sales of

M/DN

Intramedullary
Fixation nails offset by weaker sales of compression hip screws.

Net sales in Europe increased 10 percent
(increased 14 percent constant currency) to
$132.7 million compared to 2000. This increase was
comprised of a 13 percent increase due to incremental
volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 1 percent
increase due to higher average selling prices and a
4 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. This increase was driven by double-digit growth in
Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Knee sales
increased 13 percent (increased 17 percent constant
currency) driven by strong sales of the

NexGen Legacy

knee prostheses system as well as

M/G

Unicompartmental Knee with

MIS

instrumentation. Hip
sales increased 11 percent (increased 15 percent
constant currency) supported by the recent introduction of the

ZMR

Revision Hip System and increased sales of

Trilogy

cups incorporating

Longevity

Highly Crosslinked
Polyethylene Liners. Fracture management sales decreased
8 percent (decreased 4 percent constant currency) in
comparison to high-volume tender sales that occurred in the
fourth quarter of 2000.

Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales
increased 16 percent (increased 19 percent constant
currency) to $886.5 million. Knee sales increased by
16 percent (increased 20 percent constant currency) to
$481.7 million, reflecting continued strong sales of the

NexGen Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Knee and

NexGen
Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, introduced recently
in the Americas. Hip sales increased by 15 percent
(increased 19 percent constant currency) to
$376.6 million, driven by continued conversion to porous
hip stems, strong sales of

Trilogy

cups incorporating

Longevity

Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and the
continuing introduction of the

ZMR

Revision Hip System.
Fracture management product sales increased 4 percent
(increased 8 percent constant currency) to
$128.3 million, driven by the introduction of the new ZPS
internal fixation devices and strong sales of

M/ DN

nails
in Asia Pacific. Orthopaedic surgical product sales increased
7 percent (increased 10 percent constant currency) to
$163.8 million, led by the introduction of the

OrthoPAT

Autotransfusion System, that can be used perioperatively.

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was
72.3 percent in 2001, or 73.4 percent excluding
separation costs of $11.9 million, compared to
72.0 percent in 2000. This increase was due to higher
average selling prices, favorable premium priced product mix, as
well as improved manufacturing efficiencies associated with
increased sales volume and enhanced productivity. This was
partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and inflationary expense increases,
including wages and fringe benefits.

Research and development as a percentage of net
sales was 6.1 percent in 2001, or 5.8 percent
excluding separation costs of $3.2 million, compared to
5.0 percent in 2000. This increase was due to higher
spending on research and development activities focused on
broadening the Company’s product offerings in areas such as
less invasive approaches to orthopaedic procedures,
incorporation of new materials such as Trabecular Metal and
highly crosslinked polyethylene. Research and development
expenditures, consistent with the Company’s strategy to
offer innovative new products and comprehensive solutions,
increased over 50 percent to $68.4 million, excluding
separation costs, for the 2 year period ended
December 31, 2001.



Selling, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of net sales were 45.2 percent in 2001, or
40.5 percent excluding separation costs of
$54.9 million, compared to 41.3 percent in 2000. In
the fourth quarter 2001, the Company recorded a
$3.0 million pretax charge for possible payments of
non-reimbursed, direct medical expenses to certain patients who
choose to revise recalled Saint-Gobain manufactured zirconia
femoral heads. Excluding the costs of separation and charges
related to Saint-Gobain, selling, general and administrative
expenses increased 11 percent to $474.9 million in
2001 from $429.7 million in 2000. This increase was driven
by an increase in selling and marketing expenses where the
Company continued to invest in selling and marketing programs,
including sales force expansion, support for the
U.S. distributor network, target direct-to-customer
advertising and the establishment of the

MIS

business
unit. General and administrative expenses, in dollar terms,
remained constant in 2001 compared with 2000, reflecting strict
expense controls across all geographic regions. Over the four
year period ended December 31, 2001, general and
administrative expenses excluding the aforementioned
$3.0 million have remained constant while net sales
increased by over $300 million. In 2000 the Company
recorded pretax charges of $14 million related to changes
made to its operations as discussed in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein
under Item 8.

Operating profit decreased 7 percent in 2001
to $248.3 million from $268.0 million in 2000.
Excluding separation costs of $70.0 million, operating
profit increased 19 percent to $318.3 million, due
primarily to the increase in gross profit margin, together with
expense leveraging.

The effective tax rate on earnings before taxes
increased to 37.8 percent in 2001 compared to
34.3 percent in 2000. Excluding separation costs and
including pro forma interest expense for 2001, the effective tax
rate increased to 35.7 percent. The tax provision prior to
August 6, 2001 was computed by the Company’s former
parent. The Company’s tax rate after August 6, 2001
was 36.1 percent on a pro forma separate return basis.

Net earnings decreased 15 percent in 2001 to
$149.8 million from $176.0 million in 2000. Basic and
diluted earnings per share decreased 15 percent in 2001 to
$0.77 from $0.91 in 2000. Excluding separation costs of
$49.9 million, net of tax, and including incremental pro
forma interest expense, net of tax, of $8.9 million, pro
forma net earnings were $190.8 million for 2001. Basic and
diluted earnings per share for 2001, on a pro forma basis, were
$0.99 and $0.98, respectively.

Adjusting 2000 for a full year of assumed
interest of $29.0 million, net of tax of
$19.1 million, net earnings would have been
$156.9 million, or $0.81 per share for both basic and
diluted. This assumes that $500.0 million of debt would
have been outstanding for the full year 2000 at an interest rate
of 5.7 percent.

Pro forma net earnings of $190.8 million for
2001 represent a 22 percent increase from 2000 net
earnings, adjusted for a full year of assumed interest, of
$156.9 million. Basic earnings per share on the same basis
reflect an increase of 22 percent in 2001, to $0.99 from
$0.81 in 2000, while diluted earnings per share increased
21 percent in 2001, to $0.98 from $0.81 in 2000.

Year Ended
December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31,

Net sales increased 11 percent for the year
ended December 31, 2000. Sales growth reflected strong
demand for reconstructive implants and fracture management
products, which was aided in part by the introduction of new
products. This increase was comprised of a 10 percent
increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of
product sales and a 1 percent increase due to higher
average selling prices.

Net sales in the Americas increased
11 percent in 2000 to $655.4 million, led by growth in
the southeast region of the United States and at targeted
teaching hospitals throughout the United States. This increase
was comprised of a 9 percent increase due to incremental
volume and changes in the mix of product sales, together with a
2 percent increase due to higher average selling prices.
Sales of reconstructive implants increased 16 percent
supported by new product launches. Knee sales increased
10 percent led by growth in sales of the

NexGen Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Knee. Hip sales increased



19 percent, driven by strong sales of

VerSys

porous hip stems, the introduction of

ZMR

hip, the new modular revision hip product and increased
sales of

Trilogy

acetabular cups incorporating

Longevity

Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners.
Fracture management product sales increased 9 percent with
the ongoing introduction of periarticular plating system and the

M/DN

intramedullary nail.

Net sales in Asia Pacific increased
13 percent in 2000 (increased 7 percent constant
currency) to $264.5 million, driven by the introduction of
new products in the reconstructive implant and fracture
management product lines. This increase was comprised of an
8 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in
the mix of product sales, a 1 percent decrease due to lower
average selling prices and a 6 percent increase due to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The lower average selling
prices were the result of reductions in Japan in government
reimbursement prices for reconstructive implants, which went
into effect during the fourth quarter of 2000. Knee sales
increased 14 percent (increased 10 percent constant
currency), driven by the introduction of the

NexGen Legacy

Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, a product designed to
accommodate deep knee flexion, which is more common in
day-to-day activities in Asia. Hip sales increased
7 percent (increased 2 percent constant currency),
driven primarily by strong sales of

VerSys

porous hip
stems and

Trilogy

acetabular cups. Fracture management
product sales increased 13 percent (increased
6 percent constant currency), reflecting a net increase due
to strong

M/DN

intramedullary nail sales offset by lower
sales of compression hip screws compared to 1999 in which there
was a new product launch.

Net sales in Europe increased 4 percent in
2000 to $120.7 million, driven by higher sales in the
United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, France and Italy. This increase
was comprised of a 17 percent increase due to incremental
volume and changes in the mix of product sales offset by a
13 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. Knee sales increased 3 percent (increased
17 percent constant currency), driven by strong sales of
the

NexGen Legacy

system of knee prostheses. Hip sales
increased 5 percent (increased 17 percent constant
currency), supported by the introduction of

ZMR

revision
hip system and the offering of specialized hip products that
appeal to European surgical philosophies, such as

CPT,

SKF/SKT and the Mercure hip. Fracture management product sales
increased 2 percent (increased 13 percent constant
currency) with the introduction of the

M/DN

intramedullary nail.

Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales
increased by 13 percent in 2000 to $764.5 million.
During this period, foreign exchange rate fluctuations had no
material effect on overall reconstructive implant sales. Knee
sales increased by 10 percent (increased 11 percent
constant currency) to $413.7 million, driven primarily by
strong sales of

NexGen Legacy

knee prostheses across all
regions. Hip sales increased by 14 percent (increased
13 percent constant currency) to $328.7 million,
reflecting increased market penetration of porous hip stems and

Trilogy

acetabular cups in the Americas and Asia Pacific.
Fracture management product sales increased worldwide by
10 percent (increased 9 percent constant currency) in
2000 to $123.4 million. This increase was driven primarily
by sales of the recently launched

MD/N

intramedullary
nail in all regions. Orthopaedic surgical product sales
increased by 4 percent overall in 2000 to
$152.7 million. This increase was driven primarily by sales
of distributed powered instruments and arthroscopy products in
Asia Pacific.

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was
72.0 percent in 2000, compared to 71.3 percent in
1999. This increase was driven by lower product costs due to
negotiated decreases in raw material costs, the rationalization
of manufacturing operations and investment in more efficient
manufacturing equipment.

Research and development as a percentage of net
sales in 2000 remained at the 1999 level of 5 percent.
Research and development expenditures increased 15 percent
to $52.0 million in 2000 from $45.2 million in 1999.
This increase was due, in part, to increased spending on
engineering, development and commercialization activities as the
Company broadened its product offerings and in part, to design
and development consulting in support for design and concept
testing of new products, greater demand for post-market clinical
studies and prospective and retrospective clinical evaluations.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of net sales were 41.3 percent in 2000, compared
to 41.9 percent in 1999. This decrease was due to lower
distribution expenses in Asia Pacific where selected
distribution and customer service functions were consolidated,
which was partially offset by



hiring of new sales associates and support
personnel and increased commissions in the Americas due to a
greater number of distributors exceeding sales targets. General
and administrative expenses increased 1 percent in 2000
while sales increased 11 percent. In 2000 and 1999 the
Company recorded pretax charges of $14 million and
$15 million, respectively, related to changes made to its
operations as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are included herein under
Item 8.

Operating profit increased 16 percent in
2000 to $268.0 from $230.9 million in 1999. This increase
was due to lower product costs, consolidation of distribution
and customer service functions in Asia Pacific and strict
control on general and administrative expenses.

The effective tax rate on earnings before taxes
decreased to 34.3 percent compared to 35.1 percent in
1999. This decrease was due to increased earnings in lower tax
jurisdictions.

Net earnings increased 17 percent to
$176.0 million from $149.9 million in 1999. Basic and
diluted earnings per share increased 18 percent to $0.91
from $0.77 in 1999.

Operating Profit by Segment

The following table sets forth the operating
profit by segment for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999:

Operating
Profit by Segment

Percent of net
sales

Year Ended
December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31,

Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage
of net sales decreased to 47 percent in 2001 from
48 percent in 2000. This decrease reflects higher selling
expenses partially offset by favorable effects of increased
sales of higher margin products and higher average selling
prices.

Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage
of net sales increased to 41 percent in 2001 from
38 percent in 2000. While revenues were adversely affected
by weak local currencies, the negative impact of foreign
currency on sales was largely mitigated in operating profit by
gains on derivative financial instruments (more fully described
in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which
are included herein under Item 8), asset management and
expense reduction initiatives.

Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of
net sales increased to 16 percent in 2001 from
15 percent in 2000. The increase in 2001 was due to
favorable country and product mix.

Year Ended
December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31,

Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage
of sales increased to 48 percent in 2000 from
47 percent in 1999. This increase reflects the favorable
effects of increased sales of higher margin products, higher
average selling prices and reduced product cost.

Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage
of net sales increased to 38 percent in 2000 from
33 percent in 1999. This increase reflects lower operating
expenses and favorable foreign exchange rate fluctuations.

Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of
net sales decreased to 15 percent in 2000 from
20 percent in 1999. This decrease was due principally to
unfavorable foreign exchange rate fluctuations.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash flow generated from operations was
$171.8 million in 2001, compared with $232.4 million
in 2000 and $180.1 million in 1999. The decrease in cash
flow from operations in 2001 was primarily attributable to the
incurrence of separation costs. Excluding separation costs and
including incremental pro forma interest, pro forma cash flow
generated from operations was $214.9 million in 2001. If
the Company had adjusted 2000 for a full year of assumed
interest, cash flow from operations for 2000 would have been
$213.3 million. The increase of $1.6 million from 2000
to 2001 was due to increases in net earnings, accounts payable
due to favorable payment terms, other current liabilities for
royalties and commissions as a result of higher net sales,
offset by inventory investment necessary for new product
introductions.

Working capital management remained strong.
Accounts receivable days decreased to 52 days in 2001,
10 days lower than 2000, reflecting improved collections
and credit terms in the Americas and an improvement in the
negotiated payment terms in Asia Pacific. Accounts receivable
days in the Americas are consistently below 40. Consistent with
the Company’s strategy to expand product offerings, the
Company expects to maintain inventory at a level that ensures
the successful launch of a continuous stream of new products.
Inventory days increased to 221 days in 2001. This increase
was due to investments necessary to support the launch of new
products during 2001 and 2002.

Cash flow used in investing activities,
principally capital expenditures, was $54.7 million in
2001, compared with $29.0 million in 2000 and
$33.2 million in 1999. The increase in capital expenditures
in 2001 was driven by investments to increase manufacturing and
distribution capacity, investments for new product development
and the expansion of the Company’s main distribution
facility in Warsaw, Indiana to support sales growth, the
purchase of computer hardware and software for a new information
technology system for the Company’s North American
operations and additional computer system infrastructure
required as a result of the separation.

On July 31, 2001, the Company and certain
subsidiaries of the Company entered into a $600 million
three-year, multi-currency, revolving senior unsecured credit
agreement (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility
contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including
a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio.
The Company is in compliance with all covenants under the Credit
Facility. Available borrowings under the Credit Facility at
December 31, 2001 were $241.8 million.

Cash provided by operating and financing
activities was also used in 2001 to fund payments to the
Company’s former parent for dividends of
$290.0 million, debt due of $144.0 million and other
items of $32.8. The Company had $18.4 million in cash and
equivalents and outstanding borrowings of $363.9 million as
of December 31, 2001. The Company maintains a capital
structure that is consistent with an investment grade credit
rating.

Management believes that cash flows from
operations, together with available borrowings under the Credit
Facility, will be sufficient to meet the Company’s working
capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs in the near
term. Should investment opportunities arise, the Company
believes that its earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will
allow the Company to obtain additional capital, if necessary.
The ability to issue additional equity is subject to limitations
in order to preserve the tax-free nature of the distribution.
Under the tax sharing agreement with its former parent, the
Company is required to indemnify the former parent for the
amount of any tax imposed under Section 355(e) of the
Internal Revenue Code.

Significant Accounting Policies

As indicated elsewhere in this Form 10-K,
management is responsible for the integrity of the financial
information presented herein. The consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Where necessary, they reflect
estimates based on management’s judgment. When selecting or
evaluating accounting alternatives, management focuses on those,
subject to considerations of cost of administration, that
produce from among the available alternatives information most
useful for decision-making. Significant accounting policies that
are important to the portrayal of the



Company’s financial condition and results,
which, in some cases require management’s judgment, are
summarized in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are included herein under Item 8. These
include but are not limited to accounting for inventories,
prepaid expenses, income taxes, derivative financial
instruments, product liability and stock compensation. While
alternative methods of accounting for these items could result
in different amounts to be reported under different conditions
or using alternative assumptions, in the aggregate, such
differences are not likely to materially or adversely affect the
Company’s financial condition.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Information about recent accounting
pronouncements can be found in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are included herein under
Item 8.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk

The Company is exposed to certain market risks as
part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices, that could impact its results of operations,
cash flows and financial condition. The Company manages its
exposure to these and other market risks through regular
operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis,
through the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative
financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools
and not for speculative investment purposes.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

The Company operates on a global basis and is
exposed to the risk that its operating results, cash flows and
financial position could be adversely affected by changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is primarily
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to
its transactions and net assets denominated in Japanese Yen and
the Euro. The Company manages the foreign currency exposure
centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the Company to net
exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. In order
to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on
transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the Company
enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of
foreign exchange forward or options contracts with major
international financial institutions. These forward and option
contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency
transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase
transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized
and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify
as hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive
income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects
net earnings. The notional amounts of outstanding foreign
exchange forward and option contracts, principally Japanese Yen
and the Euro, entered into with third parties, at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, were $82 million and
$39 million, respectively. For all contracts outstanding at
December 31, 2001: the Company has rights to purchase
U.S. Dollars and sell Japanese Yen; contract maturity dates
range from January 2002 to December 2002; and the weighted
average contract rate is Yen 117.

The Company maintains written policies and
procedures governing its risk management activities. The
Company’s policy requires that critical terms of hedging
instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. On
this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash
flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected
to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge
instruments. As part of its risk management program, the Company
furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential
changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial
position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange
rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of
foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at
December 31, 2001, indicated that, if the U.S. Dollar
uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the
Japanese Yen, the fair value of those contracts would increase
or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the
direction of the change, by approximately $8.2 million. Any
change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts
as a result



of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is
expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the
hedged transaction. Consequently, foreign exchange contracts
would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate
movements because contract gains and losses would offset gains
and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being
hedged.

The Company had exposures to net foreign currency
denominated assets and liabilities of approximately
$87 million and $49 million at December 31, 2001
and 2000, respectively, primarily in the Japanese Yen and the
Euro.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company purchases raw material commodities
such as cobalt chrome, titanium, medical grade polymer and
sterile packaging. The Company enters into 12 to 24 month
supply contracts on these commodities to alleviate the impact of
market fluctuation in prices. As part of the Company’s risk
management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential
commodity price changes are performed. A 10 percent price
change across all these commodities would not have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Interest Rate Risk

In the normal course of business, the Company is
exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could
impact its results of operations and financial condition. The
Company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its
regular operations and financing activities.

Presently, the Company invests its cash and cash
equivalents in money market and other interest bearing accounts.
The primary investment objective is to ensure capital
preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default
and market risk. Currently, the Company does not use derivative
financial instruments in its investment portfolio.

The Company is subject to movements in interest
rate risk on the committed Credit Facility and its uncommitted
credit facilities. All of its debt outstanding is floating. The
Company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure. If
interest rates were to increase 10 percent (or
35 basis points), assuming the amount outstanding remains
constant, the result would be an annual increase of interest
expense of approximately $1.3 million. However, due to the
uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their
possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor
management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. Further,
this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the
level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an
environment. Presently, the Company intends to utilize cash flow
to reduce outstanding borrowings.

Credit Risk

A substantial portion of the Company’s trade
receivables is due from hospitals and other healthcare
providers. The Company generally does not receive collateral for
these receivables. Although the concentration of these
receivables with customers in a similar industry poses a risk of
non-collection, the Company believes this risk is mitigated
somewhat by the large number and geographic dispersion of these
customers and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of
the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of
business.

Exposure to credit risk is controlled through
credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and
the Company believes that reserves for losses are adequate.
There is no significant net exposure due to any individual
customer or other major concentration of credit risk.



Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.

Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

To the Stockholders of

Zimmer Holdings, Inc.:

Management is responsible for the integrity of
the financial information presented in this Form 10-K. The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Where
necessary, they reflect estimates based on management’s
judgment.

Management relies upon established accounting
procedures and related systems of internal control for meeting
its responsibilities to maintain reliable financial records.
These systems are designed to provide reasonable assurance that
assets are safeguarded and that transactions are properly
recorded and executed in accordance with management’s
intentions. Auditors periodically review the accounting and
control systems, and these systems are revised if and when
weaknesses or deficiencies are found.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
composed solely of directors from outside the Company, meets
regularly with management and its independent accountants to
discuss audit scope and results, internal control evaluations,
and other accounting, reporting and financial matters. The
independent accountants have access to the Audit Committee
without management’s presence.

/s/ J. RAYMOND ELLIOTT

J. RAYMOND ELLIOTT

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer

Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

/s/ SAM R. LENO

SAM R. LENO

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer

Zimmer Holdings, Inc.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and

Board of Directors of

Zimmer Holdings, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Zimmer
Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2001
and 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

January 24, 2002



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(in millions, except per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in millions, except per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.     Business

Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(individually and collectively the “Company”) design,
develop, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive
implants and fracture management products. Orthopaedic
reconstructive implants restore joint function lost due to
disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and
elbows, while fracture management products are devices used
primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to
support the body’s natural healing process. The Company
also manufactures and markets other products relating to
orthopaedic and general surgery. The Company has operations in
20 countries and markets its products in 70 countries.
The Company operates in a single industry but has three
reportable geographic segments.

2.

Significant Accounting Policies

The following is a summary of the accounting
policies adopted by the Company which have a significant effect
on the consolidated financial statements.

Basis of
Presentation —

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Zimmer
Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after
elimination of all significant intercompany accounts and
transactions. The consolidated financial statements represent
the Company’s operations as a public company commencing on
August 6, 2001, combined with the operations of Zimmer as a
division of its former parent prior to becoming a public
company. For periods prior to August 6, 2001, intercompany
accounts with its former parent, other than specific outstanding
obligations, were combined with invested capital and reported in
the consolidated financial statements as net investment by
former parent. At the distribution date the Company recognized
certain liabilities and obligations for pension, postretirement,
long-term disability and U.S. sales agent benefits. Recognition
of these liabilities, obligations and other adjustments are
reflected in the remaining net investment in the Company by its
former parent of $14.1 million as of the distribution date.
During 2000 and 1999, the Company consolidated and made other
changes in manufacturing, terminated a license and distribution
agreement and reduced the size of the organization in areas
affected by these changes. As a result, the Company recorded
pretax charges of $17 million ($3 million in cost of
products sold and $14 million in selling, general and
administrative expenses) and $21 million ($6 million in
cost of products sold and $15 million in selling, general
and administrative expenses) for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These actions
were completed during 2001.

Use of
Estimates —

The consolidated
financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and, accordingly, include amounts
that are based on management’s best estimates and
judgments. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency
Translation —

The financial
statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates for
assets and liabilities and average exchange rates for operating
results. Unrealized translation gains and losses are included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
stockholders’ equity. Foreign currency transaction gains
and losses included in net earnings are not material.

Revenue
Recognition —

A significant
portion of the Company’s revenue is recognized for field
based product upon notification that the product has been
implanted or used. For all other transactions, the Company
recognizes revenue when title is passed to customers. Estimated
returns and allowances are recorded as a reduction of sales when
the revenue is recognized. Shipping and handling fees billed to
customers are recorded as revenue, while related costs are
included in selling, general and administrative expenses. The
reserves for doubtful accounts were $6.5 million and
$4.9 million as of December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash and
Equivalents —

The Company
considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company
currently does not have any investments which would not be
considered cash equivalents. Prior to August 6, 2001, cash
and financing activities of the Company’s operations were
managed by the Company’s former parent. Interest expense on
financing from the Company’s former parent included in net
earnings is not material. Cash and equivalents are carried at
cost, which approximates fair value.

Inventories —

Inventories, net of allowances for obsolete and slow-moving
goods, are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost
determined on the basis of average costing.

Prepaid
Expenses —

Prepaid expenses
include the cost of instruments in stock for surgical procedures
provided to customers by the Company. These costs are recognized
in selling, general and administrative expense in the year in
which the instruments are placed into service.

Property, Plant and
Equipment —

Property, plant
and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is computed based on the estimated useful lives of
10 to 40 years for buildings and improvements and 3 to
8 years for machinery and equipment using the straight-line
method. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Any
impairments would be recognized based on an assessment of future
operations (including cash flows) to ensure that assets are
appropriately valued.

Income
Taxes —

The Company accounts
for income taxes using the liability method. Under this method,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets
and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates in
effect for the years in which the differences are expected to
reverse. Deferred tax expense represents the change in net
deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. No
provision has been made for U.S. and state income taxes or
foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries because it is expected that such earnings
will be reinvested overseas indefinitely.

Derivative Financial
Instruments —

The Company
maintains written policies and procedures that permit, under
appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization,
the use of derivative financial instruments solely for hedging
purposes. The use of derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes is prohibited. The Company
utilizes foreign exchange forward and option contracts to offset
the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on anticipated foreign
currency transactions, primarily intercompany sales and
purchases expected to occur within the next twelve to
twenty-four months. Derivative instruments that qualify as fair
value, cash flow or net investment hedges are designated as such
from inception. Formal documentation is maintained of the
Company’s objectives, the nature of the risk being hedged,
identification of the instrument, the hedged transaction, the
hedging relationship and how effectiveness of the hedging
instrument will be assessed. The Company’s policy requires
that critical terms of a hedging instrument are essentially the
same as a hedged forecasted transaction. On this basis, with
respect to a cash flow hedge, changes in cash flows attributable
to the hedged transaction are generally expected to be
completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge
instruments. The Company, therefore, performs quarterly
assessments of hedge effectiveness by verifying and documenting
that critical terms of the hedge instrument and forecasted
transaction have not changed. The Company also assesses on a
quarterly basis whether there have been adverse developments
regarding the risk of a counterparty default. For derivatives
which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective
portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in
other comprehensive income and then recognized in earnings when
the hedged item affects net earnings. The ineffective portion of
a derivative’s change in fair value, if any, is reported in
net earnings.

Stock
Compensation —

The Company
applies Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion
No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” and related interpretations in accounting for
its employee stock options. Accordingly, no compensation expense
has been recognized for fixed stock-based



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

compensation plans. The Company has made all of
the required pro forma disclosures for each of the three years
ended December 31, 2001, under the measurement requirements
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation.”

Comprehensive
Income —

Other comprehensive
income refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that under
generally accepted accounting principles are included in
comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these
amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to
stockholders’ equity. The Company’s other
comprehensive income is comprised of unrealized foreign currency
hedge gains, net of tax, and foreign currency translation
adjustments.

The components of accumulated other comprehensive
income at December 31, 2001 and 2000, are as follows (in
millions):

Accounting
Pronouncements —

Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS
No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” without any material impact on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In July 2001 the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 141,
“Business Combinations,” and No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS
No. 141 requires that companies use the purchase method of
accounting for all business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001, and addresses the initial recognition of
goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business
combination. SFAS No. 142 addresses the initial recognition
and measurement of intangible assets acquired outside a business
combination, whether acquired individually or with a group of
other assets. SFAS No. 142 also addresses the recognition
and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets
subsequent to their acquisition. The Company has completed no
business combinations since the effective date of SFAS
No. 141, but will comply with the Standard for future
acquisitions. As the Company currently has no goodwill and only
minimal other intangible assets, adoption of SFAS No. 142
is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

In August 2001 the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” SFAS
No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible
long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs and
applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of
long-lived assets that result from the acquisition,
construction, development and (or) the normal operation of a
long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of lessees.
SFAS No. 143 is effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. This
pronouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In October 2001 the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long Lived Assets.” SFAS No. 144 modifies and expands
the financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or
disposal of long-lived assets other than goodwill, which is
specifically addressed by SFAS No. 142. SFAS No. 144
maintains the requirement that an impairment loss be recognized
for a long-lived asset to be held and used if its carrying value
is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, with the
recognized impairment being the difference between the carrying
amount and fair value of the asset. With respect to long-lived
assets to be disposed of other than by sale, SFAS No. 144
requires that the asset be considered held and used until it is
actually disposed of. With respect to long-lived assets to be
disposed of



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

by sale, the statement requires that such assets
be carried at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value
less cost to sell. SFAS No. 144 will be effective for the
Company’s first quarter of 2002 and is not expected to have
a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

3.

Separation from Bristol-Myers Squibb
	Company

The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb, its former
parent, on January 12, 2001. On July 25, 2001,
Bristol-Myers Squibb transferred the assets and liabilities of
its orthopaedic business to the Company. On August 6, 2001,
Bristol-Myers Squibb distributed all of the shares of Company
common stock to Bristol-Myers Squibb stockholders in the form of
a dividend of one share of Company common stock and the
associated preferred stock purchase right, for every
10 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock. The
distribution qualified as a tax-free distribution made under
Section 355 and 368(a)(1)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 as more fully described in Note 12. On
August 6, 2001, the Company assumed all obligations under a
$600 million credit facility established by the Company and
its former parent (the “Credit Facility”) with then
outstanding borrowings of $290 million. With additional
borrowings under the Credit Facility, the Company repaid amounts
due to its former parent of approximately $90 million, and
finally, the Company assumed an additional $22 million of
borrowings under the Credit Facility for separation costs.

The Company incurred $70.0 million
($49.9 million net of taxes) in costs, fees and expenses
relating to the separation from its former parent and the
related distribution of Company common stock to the
Bristol-Myers Squibb stockholders. These costs, fees and
expenses were primarily for retention bonuses; legal separation
matters; professional expenses; and costs of producing,
printing, mailing and distributing the information statement
related to the distribution.

4.     Inventories

Inventories at December 31, 2001 and 2000,
consist of the following (in millions):

Reserves for obsolete and slow-moving inventory
at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were $43.3 million and
$41.3 million, respectively. Provisions charged to expense
were $11.9 million, $12.1 million and
$5.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively. Amounts written off against the
reserve were $8.5 million, $8.5 million and
$2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, was as follows (in millions):

6.     Other Current
Liabilities

Other current liabilities at December 31,
2001 and 2000, consist of the following (in millions):

7.     Debt

Committed
Credit Facility

On July 31, 2001, the Company and certain
subsidiaries, together with its former parent, entered into a
$600 million three-year, multi-currency, revolving senior
unsecured credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”).
Borrowings under the Credit Facility may bear interest at the
appropriate LIBOR rate, depending upon the currency denomination
of the borrowing, or an alternate base rate plus, in each case,
an applicable margin determined by reference to the
Company’s senior unsecured long-term debt rating and the
amounts drawn under the Credit Facility. On the distribution
date, the Company’s former parent was relieved of all
obligations under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility
matures on July 31, 2004.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had
$363.9 million in outstanding borrowings, including
$358.2 million under the Credit Facility. The Credit
Facility borrowings were comprised of $284 million in
U.S. dollar based borrowings with a weighted average
interest rate of 4.35 percent and the equivalent of
$74.2 million in Japanese Yen based borrowings with a
weighted average interest rate of 1.17 percent as of
December 31, 2001.

The Credit Facility is to be used for general
corporate purposes. The Credit Facility also allows for the
issuance of letters of credit.

The Credit Facility contains customary
affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an
unsecured financing arrangement, none of which are considered
restrictive to the operation of the business. Financial
covenants include a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum
interest coverage ratio. The Company was in compliance with all
covenants under the Credit Facility as of December 31,
2001. Also, the Credit Facility would restrict the payment of
dividends and the making of investments if the Company does not
have an investment grade rating, as defined. Commitments under
the Credit Facility are subject to certain fees, including a
facility fee.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Uncommitted
Credit Facilities

On July 17, 2001, the Company entered into a
$26 million uncommitted unsecured revolving line of credit.
The former parent was a guarantor under this credit line until
distribution date, at which time the Company’s former
parent was relieved of all obligations under this uncommitted
facility. The purpose of this credit line is to support the
working capital needs, letters of credit and overdraft needs for
the Company’s subsidiaries. The pricing is similar to the
Credit Facility. In the event instruments available under the
Credit Facility are unavailable in the domiciled jurisdiction of
the subsidiary, then relevant alternative local market pricing
will be made available. The uncommitted credit agreement
contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events
of default for an unsecured uncommitted financing arrangement,
none of which are considered restrictive to the operation of the
business. In addition, the uncommitted credit agreement provides
for unconditional and irrevocable guarantees by the Company. In
the event the Company’s long-term debt ratings by both
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and
Moody’s Investor’s Service, Inc., fall below
investment grade, then the Company may be required to repay all
outstanding and contingent obligations. The uncommitted credit
line matures on July 31, 2002. Outstanding borrowings under
this uncommitted line of credit as of December 31, 2001 was
$5.7 million with a weighted average interest rate of
4.98%. There was an outstanding letter of credit for
$1.9 million. Total utilization of this uncommitted line of
credit as of December 31, 2001 was $7.6 million.

On October 24, 2001, the Company entered
into a separate $10 million uncommitted revolving unsecured
line of credit. The purpose of this credit line is to support
short term working capital needs of the Company. The pricing is
similar to the Credit Facility. The agreement for this
uncommitted line of credit contains customary covenants, none of
which are considered restrictive to the operation of the
business. This uncommitted line of credit matures on
July 31, 2002. There were no borrowings under this
uncommitted line of credit as of December 31, 2001.

The Company was in compliance with all covenants
under both uncommitted credit facilities as of December 31,
2001. The Company expects to repay its short-term debt from
operating cash flow.

Outstanding debt as of December 31, 2001 is
as follows (in millions):

The Company paid $4.6 million in interest
charges during 2001.

Fair
Value

The carrying value of the Company’s
borrowings approximate fair value due to their short-term
maturities and variable interest rates.

8.     Derivative
Financial Instruments

Effective January 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, which
requires that all derivative instruments be recognized as either
assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair
value. The transition impact of this accounting requirement did
not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company is exposed to market risk due to
changes in currency exchange rates. As a result, the Company
utilizes foreign exchange forward and option contracts to offset
the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on anticipated foreign
currency transactions, primarily intercompany sales and
purchases expected to occur within the next twelve to
twenty-four months. The Company does not hold financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. For derivatives
which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective
portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in
other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the
hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective portion of a
derivative’s change in fair value, if any, is reported in
earnings. The net amount recognized in earnings during the year
ended December 31, 2001, due to ineffectiveness and amounts
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, was not
significant.

The notional amounts of outstanding foreign
exchange forward and option contracts, principally Japanese Yen
and the Euro, entered into with third parties, at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, were $82 million and
$39 million, respectively. The fair value of derivative
instruments recorded in prepaid expenses at December 31,
2001, was $8.1 million, or $5.2 million net of taxes,
which is deferred in other comprehensive income and is expected
to be reclassified to earnings over the next fifteen months. The
fair value of derivative instruments reclassified from other
comprehensive income and recognized in earnings in 2001 was
$7.9 million, or $5.1 million, net of taxes. The
carrying value of all financial instruments approximated their
fair values at December 31, 2001 and 2000.

9.     Capital Stock
and Earnings Per Share

As discussed in Note 2, all of the shares of
Company common stock were distributed on August 6, 2001 by
the former parent to its stockholders in the form of a dividend
of one share of Company common stock, and the associated
preferred stock purchase right, for every ten shares of common
stock of the former parent. In July 2001 the board of directors
of the Company adopted a rights agreement intended to have
anti-takeover effects. Under this agreement one right attaches
to each share of Company common stock. The rights will not
become exercisable until the earlier of: a) the Company
learns that a person or group acquired, or obtained the right to
acquire, beneficial ownership of securities representing more
than 15 percent of the shares of Company common stock then
outstanding, or b) such date, if any, as may be designated
by the board of directors following the commencement of, or
first public disclosure of an intention to commence, a tender
offer or exchange offer for shares of Company common stock then
outstanding that could result in a person or group acquiring, or
obtaining the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of
securities representing more than 15 percent of Company
common stock then outstanding.

The board of directors authorized for issuance
2 million shares of a series of preferred stock of the
Company designated as Series A Participating Cumulative
Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”) in
connection with the adoption of the rights agreement. Shares of
the Series A Preferred Stock are only issuable upon the
exercise of the rights. No shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock have been issued as of December 31, 2001.

The board of directors may redeem all of the
rights at a redemption price of $0.01 per right. If not
previously exercised or redeemed, the rights will expire
10 years from the date that the rights agreement commenced.

The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings
per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. The
denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the period. The
denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted average



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of
dilutive stock options. The following is a reconciliation of
weighted average shares for the basic and diluted share
computations (in millions):

For periods prior to the distribution on
August 6, 2001, basic and diluted shares outstanding are
assumed to be equivalent to the number of shares of Company
common stock outstanding immediately following the distribution.

10.     Stock Option
and Compensation Plans

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had
three stock option plans in effect, the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan, the TeamShare Stock Option Plan and the Stock Plan for
Non-Employee Directors. The Company has reserved
34.3 million shares of common stock for issuance under
these plans, 3 million of which are under the TeamShare
Stock Option Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
Options may be granted under these plans at a price of not less
than the fair market value of a share of common stock on the
date of grant. The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the
grant of nonqualified stock options and incentive stock options,
long-term performance awards, restricted stock awards and
deferred stock units. Options granted under the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan may include stock appreciation rights. The
TeamShare Stock Option Plan provides for the grant of
non-qualified stock option and stock appreciation rights while
the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors provides for awards of
stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to
non-employee directors.

Options granted under these plans generally vest
over three to five years, although in no event in less than one
year, and expire ten years from the date of grant. Certain
options have price thresholds, which affect exercisability.

Under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the total
number of awards which may be granted in a given year pursuant
to options and other awards under the Plan may not exceed
1.9 percent of the outstanding shares of the Company’s
stock on the effective date of the Plan for 2001 or
January 1 of each subsequent year, plus the number of
shares from the prior year that were available for grant but not
granted, that were granted but subsequently terminated, expired,
cancelled or surrendered without being exercised or tendered in
the prior year to pay for options or satisfy tax withholding
requirements. No participant may receive options or awards which
in the aggregate exceed 2,000,000 shares of stock over the life
of the Plan.

At the distribution date, certain options to
purchase Bristol-Myers Squibb stock that were held by Company
employees were converted to Company stock options under either
the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan or the TeamShare Stock Option
Plan. The options were converted at quantities and exercise
prices that maintained the intrinsic value of the option as it
existed immediately prior to the distribution. The vesting dates
and exercise periods of the options were not affected by the
conversion.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A summary of the status of all options granted to
employees and non-employee directors at December 31, 2001,
and changes during the period from the distribution date is
presented below:

The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding at December 31, 2001:

The Company applies the provisions of APB Opinion
No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” in accounting for stock-based compensation;
therefore, no compensation expense has been recognized for its
fixed stock option plans as options are granted at fair market
value. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements for
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” Accordingly, if compensation expense for the
Company’s stock-based compensation plans had been
determined based upon the fair value of awards granted, the
Company’s net income would have been reduced by
approximately $13 million, $8 million and
$7 million, or $0.07, $0.04 and $0.04 per common share,
basic and diluted, resulting in net income of $137 million,
$168 million and $143 million for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
weighted average fair value for options granted during 2001,
2000 and 1999 was $14.10 per common share, $16.34 per common
share and $17.78 per common share. The fair value of each option
granted is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
assumptions:

The above assumptions for 2001 pertain to the
Company while prior period figures are associated with the
Company’s former parent.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Restricted
Stock

At the distribution, certain members of
management had restricted stock grants for Bristol-Myers Squibb
stock which were converted into Company restricted stock grants
at quantities and prices that maintained the intrinsic value
that existed immediately prior to the distribution. Total
converted grants represented 106,560 shares at the
distribution date. Subsequent to the distribution, restrictions
on 20,361 shares were eliminated. In addition, restricted
stock grants were made for 33,681 shares. The awards are
being expensed over the vesting period of five years from date
of grant and the expense recorded by the Company for all periods
presented was not significant.

11.     Retirement
and Postretirement Benefit Plans

The Company has defined benefit pension plans
covering substantially all U.S. and Puerto Rico employees and
certain employees outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The
principal pension plan is the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Retirement
Plan. Plan benefits are primarily based on years of credited
service and the participant’s compensation. Foreign pension
arrangements, including various retirement and termination
benefit plans required by local law or coordinated with
government-sponsored plans, are not significant in the aggregate.

The Company also provides comprehensive medical
and group life insurance benefits to substantially all U.S. and
Puerto Rico retirees who elect to participate in the Zimmer
Holdings, Inc. comprehensive medical and group life plans. The
medical plan is contributory, and the life insurance plan is
non-contributory. No similar plans exist for employees outside
the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

In both the U.S. and jurisdictions outside of the
U.S., the Company has adopted employee benefit plans that are
comparable to those of its former parent. In general, for
purposes of determining eligibility to participate, eligibility
for benefits, benefit forms and vesting under Company plans,
each active employee is credited with his or her service with
the former parent to the extent the corresponding plans of the
former parent gave credit for such service.

In connection with the distribution, the Company
and its former parent entered into an Employee Benefits
Agreement which allocated responsibilities relating to employee
compensation, benefit plans and programs and other related
matters. Under the Agreement, as of a specified date, active
employees of the Company ceased to be active participants in
benefit plans maintained by the former parent and became
eligible to participate in all applicable Company plans.

The Employee Benefits Agreement provides that as
of the distribution date, the Company assumes, retains and is
liable for all wages, salaries, welfare, incentive compensation
and other employee-related obligations and liabilities for all
current and former employees of the Company, except as
specifically provided in the agreement. The former parent
retained certain obligations for domestic pension benefits for
service rendered through the distribution date. The former
parent also retained obligations for medical and group life
insurance benefits for all domestic retirees and those employees
eligible to retire as of the distribution date. Substantially
all assets funding its domestic pension and postretirement
benefit plans were retained by the former parent.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of net pension expense for the
Company’s U.S. and Puerto Rico defined benefit retirement
and postretirement benefit plans subsequent to the distribution
date are as follows (in millions):

The weighted average actuarial assumptions used
in accounting for the Company’s U.S. and Puerto Rico
defined benefit retirement and postretirement benefit plans were
as follows:

Changes in benefit obligations and plan assets,
from the distribution date to December 31, 2001 for the
Company’s U.S. and Puerto Rico pension and postretirement
benefit plans, were (in millions):

In addition to the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans
outlined above, the Company also has pension arrangements for
certain of its foreign operations. The amount recognized
relative to such plans was an asset of $4.5 million at
December 31, 2001. Pension expense from such plans was
immaterial for all periods presented.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for certain of
the Company’s pension and postretirement plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$43.6 million, $8.8 million and $2.2 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2001.

A one percentage point change in the assumed
health care cost trend rates would have no significant effect on
the service and interest cost components of net postretirement
benefit expense and the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation.

Included in the consolidated statement of
earnings are allocations from the Company’s former parent
for expenses specifically attributable to the Company’s
employees’ participation in its retirement and
postretirement benefit plans for periods prior to the
distribution. Amounts included were $6 million,
$10 million and $10 million for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

The Company also sponsors defined contribution
plans for substantially all of the U.S. and Puerto Rico
employees. The principal defined contribution plan is the Zimmer
Holdings, Inc. Savings and Investment Program. The
Company’s contribution under this plan is based on employee
contributions and the level of company match. The Company
recognized $3.0 million of expense for the savings and
investment plan for each of the years ended December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999.

12.     Income
Taxes

The components of earnings before income taxes
consist of the following (in millions):

For periods prior to the separation, the income
tax provision was calculated on a separate return basis while
actual tax payments were made on a combined return basis by the
Company’s former parent. Income taxes paid by the Company
for the period after the separation were $43.4 million.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax
rate to the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
used for income tax purposes. The components of deferred income
taxes consisted of the following (in millions):

Current deferred income taxes at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, were $49.2 million and
$37.0 million, respectively. Non-current deferred income
taxes at December 31, 2001 and 2000, were
$66.8 million and $40.0 million, respectively.

The Company’s former parent received a
ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), that
the distribution would qualify as a tax-free transaction. Such a
ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, is subject to
certain factual representations and assumptions. The Company has
agreed to certain restrictions on its future actions to provide
further assurances that the distribution will qualify as
tax-free. If the Company fails to abide by such restrictions
and, as a result, the distribution fails to qualify as a
tax-free transaction, the Company will be obligated to indemnify
its former parent for any resulting tax liability.

Under the Tax Sharing Agreement executed in
conjunction with the distribution, the Company’s former
parent maintains full control and discretion with regard to any
federal, foreign, combined, consolidated and certain separate
state tax filings or tax audit issues for periods through the
distribution date and retains all refunds for such periods. The
Company’s former parent also agreed to indemnify the
Company against any tax liabilities arising from such filings or
audits. The Company retains full control and discretion with
regard to certain state and other tax filings, refunds and
liabilities through the distribution date and for all tax
filings and proceedings after the distribution date. The Company
and its former parent anticipate an adjustment of distribution
date tax balances based on actual tax filings. If required, the
adjustment will result in an increase or decrease to the
remaining net investment by the Company’s former parent as
reported in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’
Equity.

No provision has been made for U.S. federal and
state income taxes or foreign taxes that may result from future
remittances of the undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries, since it is management’s



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

practice and intent to reinvest such earnings in
the operations of these subsidiaries. If the total undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries were remitted, a significant
amount of the additional tax would be offset by the allowable
foreign tax credits.

13.     Segment
Data

The Company designs, develops, manufactures and
markets orthopaedic reconstructive implants, fracture management
products and orthopaedic surgical products which include
surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic
procedures and to accommodate patient rehabilitation needs post
surgery. Operations are managed through three major geographic
areas — the Americas, which is comprised principally
of the United States and includes other North, Central and South
American markets; Asia Pacific, which is comprised primarily of
Japan and includes other Asian and Pacific markets; and Europe,
which is comprised principally of the major countries of Europe
as well as the Middle East and Africa. This structure is the
basis for the Company’s reportable segment information
discussed below. Segment performance is evaluated based on sales
and segment operating profit, exclusive of separation costs and
operating expenses pertaining to global operations and corporate
expenses. Included in segment operating profit is a cost of
capital charge which is offset in global operations. Global
operations include U.S. based research, development engineering,
brand management, corporate legal, finance, human resource
functions, and operations and logistics.

Net sales, segment operating profit and year-end
assets are as follows (in millions):

Product category (in millions):

Depreciation expenses were $23.4 million,
$23.1 million and $22.0 million and additions to fixed
and other assets were $54.7 million, $29.0 million and
$33.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively, and related principally to the
Company’s U.S. and Puerto Rico facilities.



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.     Transactions
with Former Parent

Prior to August 6, 2001, the former parent
of the Company provided certain services, including
administration of treasury, insurance, payroll, employee
compensation and benefits, travel and meeting services, public
and investor relations, real estate services, internal audit,
corporate aviation and related services, telecommunications,
computing services, corporate income tax and selected legal
services. Management of the Company believes that the methods
used to allocate expenses to the Company for these services were
reasonable, although it cannot be assured that all the expenses
that would have been incurred had the Company been a separate,
standalone entity have been reflected in financial results prior
to separation. These services accounted for a total expense of
$17.2 million for the period January 1 through
August 6, 2001, and $29.9 million and
$28.7 million, respectively, for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999.

The Company and its former parent entered into an
Interim Services Agreement pursuant to which the former parent
provided the Company, on an interim, transitional basis, various
services, including, but not limited to, employee benefits
administration and information technology services. The agreed
upon charges for such services were intended to allow the former
parent to recover fully the allocated costs of providing the
services.

The Interim Services Agreement commenced on the
distribution date and shall expire no later than twelve months
from the distribution date except for certain information
technology services, which expire December 31, 2002. The
agreement may be extended by the parties in writing either in
whole or in part. The Company may terminate the agreement with
respect to particular services upon prior written notice.

15.     Leases

Future minimum rental commitments under
non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of
December 31, 2001 were $5.0 million for 2002,
$3.9 million for 2003, $2.9 million for 2004,
$2.2 million for 2005, $1.6 million for 2006 and
$1.2 million thereafter.

16.     Commitments
and Contingencies

The Company is subject to product liability and
other claims arising in the ordinary course of business, for
which the Company maintains insurance, subject to self-insured
retention limits. The Company establishes accruals for product
liability and other claims in conjunction with outside counsel
based on current information and historical settlement
information for open claims, related fees and for claims
incurred but not reported. While it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these cases, it is the opinion of
management that these cases will not have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows of the Company.

In addition to product liability, the Company is
subject to other lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary
course of business, none of which are expected to have, upon
ultimate resolution, a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

The Company markets Saint-Gobain manufactured
zirconia femoral heads in certain of its hip replacement
products. During the year Saint-Gobain issued a product recall
of several batches of these zirconia femoral heads. In the
fourth quarter 2001, the Company established an accrual of
$3.0 million for possible payments of non-reimbursed,
direct medical expenses to certain patients who choose to
undergo a revision procedure related to this product.

Pursuant to the Company’s exclusive
distribution and strategic alliance with Implex Corporation
relating to Trabecular Metal products and technology and other
products, the Company is subject to



ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

annual minimum purchase commitments. Such
commitments are in line with the Company’s expectations and
product development plans with regard to the products covered
under this agreement.

17.     Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share
data)

(1)

Pro forma earnings exclude $70.0 million
	($49.9 million net of tax) in costs relating to the
	separation of the Company from its former parent and include
	interest expense related to debt expected to be assumed or
	incurred under the Credit Facility as if outstanding from
	January 1, 2001. Assumed average outstanding borrowings
	from January 1 to July 31, 2001 were $450 million at
	an average interest rate of 5.4 percent. Interest expense
	includes the amortization of fees. Pro forma financial
	information is presented herein to provide users of the
	financial statements with information about the impact of the
	Company’s separation from its former parent.

18.     Subsequent
Events

On January 17, 2002, the Company announced
that it had entered into an exclusive collaboration agreement
with Isto Technologies, Inc., a privately held biotechnology
firm, to develop and commercialize Isto’s patented
allograft tissue for the surgical repair of articular cartilage
defects and, potentially, for the regeneration of articular
surfaces lost to osteoarthritis.

Under the terms of the agreement, the Company
will be the exclusive, worldwide distributor of Isto’s

in vitro

cultured cartilage grafts, called Neocartilage.
In addition, the Company will provide financial and technical
resources to accelerate the development and commercialization of
this new regenerative cartilage approach. The long-term
agreement allows the Company to establish and build an equity
position in Isto as certain development milestones are reached.

In addition, subsequent to December 31,
2001, in connection with its normal risk management activities,
the Company entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to
purchase U.S. Dollars and sell Japanese Yen for an aggregate
notional value of $90 million. The contracts, which have
been designated as hedges of anticipated foreign currency
transactions, contain maturity dates ranging from January 2003
to December 2003 with a weighted average contract rate of Yen
129.

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

None



PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

J. RAYMOND ELLIOTT was appointed Chairman on
August 6, 2001 and President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company on March 20, 2001. Mr. Elliott was
appointed President of Zimmer, Inc., the Company’s
predecessor (“Zimmer, Inc.”), in November 1997.
Concurrently, Mr. Elliott served as a corporate Vice
President of the Company’s former parent prior to the
distribution, from November 1997 until the separation.
Mr. Elliott has approximately 30 years of experience
in orthopaedics, medical devices and consumer products. Prior to
joining Zimmer, Inc., he served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Cybex, Inc., a publicly traded medical rehabilitation
and cardiovascular products company, from September 1995 to June
1997, and previously as President and Chief Executive Officer of
J.R. Elliott & Associates, a privately held M&A
firm. During this time, Mr. Elliott successfully completed
several M&A and turnaround projects for the federal
government and numerous healthcare firms, including the role of
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Cablecom Inc.
Mr. Elliott has also served as Chairman and President of
various divisions of Southam, Inc., a communications group, and
as Group President of five divisions of food and beverage leader
John Labatt, Inc. He began his career in the healthcare industry
with American Hospital Supply Corporation (later Baxter
International), where he gained 15 years experience in
sales, marketing, operations, business development and general
management, leading to his appointment as President of the Far
East divisions, based in Tokyo, Japan. Mr. Elliott has
served as a director on more than 15 business-related boards in
the U.S., Canada, Japan and Europe and has served on three
occasions as Chairman. He is currently a director of the State
of Indiana Workplace Development Board and a trustee of the
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation
(“OREF”). He holds a bachelor’s degree from the
University of Western Ontario, Canada.

JAMES T. CRINES joined Zimmer, Inc. in 1997 as
Director of Finance. On July 1, 2001, he was appointed Vice
President, Controller after serving as Vice President, Finance
and Information Technology since September 2000. Mr. Crines
served Zimmer, Inc. as Director of Finance and Logistics, Japan
from May 1999 until September 2000. Mr. Crines served as
Associate Director, Accounting at Bristol-Myers Squibb from
September 1995 until he joined Zimmer, Inc. Mr. Crines has
over 18 years of experience in corporate and operations
finance and accounting, including five years as an auditor with
Price Waterhouse from 1981 to 1986. He was employed by American
Cyanamid from 1986 to 1995 and served in a variety of
increasingly important financial roles, culminating in his
promotion to Division Controller of its global animal health and
nutrition businesses in 1993. Mr. Crines holds a
bachelor’s degree in accounting from the University of
Scranton and an M.B.A. from Rutgers University and is a
Certified Public Accountant.

DAVID C. DVORAK was appointed Senior Vice
President, Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of the Company
effective December 6, 2001. Prior to his appointment,
Mr. Dvorak served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary and was a member of the Executive
Committee of STERIS Corporation, an Ohio-based leader in medical
sterilization and infection control products. Prior to joining
STERIS in 1996, Mr. Dvorak practiced corporate law at two
large Cleveland, Ohio, law firms, focusing on mergers and
acquisitions and on securities law. Mr. Dvorak holds a B.S.
degree in Business



Administration from Miami University in Oxford,
Ohio, and a J.D. degree, magna cum laude, from Case Western
Reserve University School of Law in Cleveland, Ohio.

SAM R. LENO was appointed Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective
July 16, 2001. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Leno
served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Arrow Electronics, Inc., a global distributor of electronic
components, a position he held from March 1999 until he joined
the Company. From July 1995 until February 1999, Mr. Leno
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Corporate Express, Inc., a global supplier of office products
and services. He served as Chief Financial Officer of Coram
Healthcare, which specializes in home IV infusion, from 1994
until 1995. From 1971 to 1994, Mr. Leno held several
financial positions of increasing responsibility at Baxter
International, Inc., formerly American Hospital Supply
Corporation, including Vice President, Finance and Information
Technology, Hospital Business, from 1989-1994, Vice President,
Financial Planning and Analysis, from 1988 to 1989, and Vice
President, Corporate Restructuring, from 1986 until 1988. Prior
to joining American Hospital Supply, he served as a U.S. Naval
Officer. Mr. Leno holds a B.S. degree in Accounting from
Northern Illinois University and a M.B.A. from Roosevelt
University.

JOHN S. LOVEMAN-KRELLE joined Zimmer, Inc. in
1987. He has served as President, Asia Pacific since June 2000.
Mr. Loveman-Krelle served as Vice President, Global
Marketing-Knees from January 1996 until June 1997 and as Vice
President and General Manager from June 1997 until his promotion
to his current position. Mr. Krelle has over 20 years
of experience in the orthopaedics and medical products industry;
and his previous responsibilities with Zimmer, Inc. include Vice
President, Patient Care Global Marketing and Development and
Vice President, Global Knee Marketing. Prior to 1987, he held
positions in sales, marketing and management with Schering AG.
Mr. Krelle holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical
engineering and an M.B.A. from Sussex University, U.K.

BRUNO A. MELZI joined Zimmer, Inc. in 1990 as
Managing Director, Italy. In March 2000, Mr. Melzi was
promoted from Vice President and Managing Director of Italy,
Germany and Switzerland, a position he held since October of
1997, to his current position of President, Europe/MEA.
Mr. Melzi has over 27 years of experience in the
orthopaedics and medical products industry. He has previously
served as General Manager and member of the Board of Directors
of Johnson & Johnson Italy from 1983 to 1990, as
Smith & Nephew’s Business Director for Italy from
1982 to 1983 and as Executive Marketing Director for Johnson
& Johnson’s Ethicon suture division from 1980 to 1982.
Mr. Melzi holds a degree in law from the University of
Pavia, Italy.

BRUCE E. PETERSON was appointed President,
Americas of Zimmer, Inc. effective July 1, 2001. He joined
Zimmer, Inc. in 1995 as Senior Vice President, U.S. Sales and
Marketing and was given additional responsibility for Canada and
Latin America in May 2000. Mr. Peterson has over
25 years of sales, marketing and management experience in
the orthopaedics industry, including eight years with Johnson
& Johnson Orthopaedics from 1975 to 1983, three previous
years from 1984 to 1986 with Zimmer, Inc. and nine years as
Distributor Principal and President of Great Lakes Orthopaedics
from 1986 to 1995. Mr. Peterson holds a bachelor’s
degree from Youngstown State University.

Information relating to the directors will appear
in the section entitled “Nominees for Director” in the
definitive Proxy Statement to be dated March 12, 2002, and
to be filed with the Commission relating to the Company’s
2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which section is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required by this Item concerning
remuneration of the Company’s officers and directors and
information concerning material transactions involving such
officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from
the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2002
Annual Meeting of Stockholders which will be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days
after the end of the Company’s last fiscal year.



Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

The information required by this Item concerning
the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial
owners is incorporated herein by reference from the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2002 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders which will be filed with the Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the
end of the Company’s last fiscal year.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this Item concerning
certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated
herein by reference from the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement for its 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders which will
be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the end of the Company’s last
fiscal year.

PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits,
Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a) 1.     Financial
Statements

The following consolidated financial statements
	of the Company and its subsidiaries are set forth in Part II,
	Item 8.

Report of Independent Accountants

2.     Financial
Statement Schedules

All financial statement schedules are omitted
	because they are not applicable or the information required
	therein is set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
	Statements included in Item 8 of this report.

3.     Exhibits

A list of exhibits required to be filed as part
	of this report is set forth in the Index to Exhibits, which
	immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein
	by reference.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

A report on Form 8-K dated November 13,
	2001 was filed reporting under Item 5 to facilitate the
	filing of exhibits to the report executed copies of certain
	incomplete exhibits previously filed and certain other
	instruments, documents or contracts.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.

By:

/s/ J. RAYMOND ELLIOTT

J. Raymond Elliott

Chairman of the Board,

President and Chief Executive
        Officer

Dated: March 11, 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



INDEX TO EXHIBITS


*

indicates management contracts or compensatory
	plans or arrangements