ITEM 1.BUSINESS



The Company



FirstEnergy Corp. was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1996. FE’s principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the outstanding common stock of its principal subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn (a wholly owned subsidiary of OE), JCP&L, ME, PN, FESC, FES and its principal subsidiaries (FG and NG), AE Supply, MP, PE, WP, FET and its principal subsidiaries (ATSI and TrAIL), and AESC. In addition, FE holds all of the outstanding common stock of other direct subsidiaries including: FirstEnergy Properties, Inc., FEV, FENOC, FELHC, Inc., GPU Nuclear, Inc., and AE Ventures, Inc.



FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries are involved in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity. FirstEnergy’stenutility operating companies comprise one of the nation’s largest investor-owned electric systems, servingsix millioncustomers in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions. Its generation subsidiaries control nearly17,000MW of capacity from a diverse mix of non-emitting nuclear, scrubbed coal, natural gas, hydroelectric and other renewables. FirstEnergy’s transmission operations include approximately24,000miles of lines andtworegional transmission operation centers.



Subsidiaries



FirstEnergy’s revenues are primarily derived from electric service provided by its utility operating subsidiaries (OE, CEI, TE, Penn, JCP&L, ME, PN, MP, PE, and WP), ATSI and TrAIL, and the sale of energy and related products and services by its unregulated competitive subsidiaries, FES and AE Supply.



The Utilities’ combined service areas encompass approximately65,000square miles in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York. The areas they serve have a combined population of approximately13.5 million.



OE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a7,000square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately2.3 million. OE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.



OE owns all of Penn’s outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in the State of Ohio. Penn furnishes electric service to communities in1,100square miles of western Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately0.3 million. Penn complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.



CEI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1892 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of1,600square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately1.7 million. CEI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.



TE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1901 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of2,300square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately0.7 million. TE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.



JCP&L was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1925 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. JCP&L provides transmission and distribution services in3,200square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a population of approximately2.7 million. JCP&L also has a 50% ownership interest (210MW) in a hydroelectric generating facility. JCP&L complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and the NJBPU.



ME was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1922 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. ME provides transmission and distribution services in3,300square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately1.2 million. ME complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.



PN was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1919 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. PN provides transmission and distribution services in17,600square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately1.3 million. PN, as lessee of the property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, also serves customers in the Waverly, New York vicinity. PN complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, NYPSC and PPUC.












PE was organized under the laws of the State of Maryland in 1923 and in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1974. PE is authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Virginia and the States of West Virginia and Maryland. PE owns property and does business as an electric public utility in those states. PE provides transmission and distribution services in portions of Maryland and West Virginia and provides transmission services in Virginia in an area totaling approximately5,500square miles. The area it serves has a population of approximately0.9 million. PE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, MDPSC, VSCC, and WVPSC.



MP was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1924 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in the state of West Virginia. MP provides generation, transmission and distribution services in13,000square miles of northern West Virginia. The area it serves has a population of approximately0.8 million. As ofDecember 31, 2015, MP owned or contractually controlled3,580MWs of generation capacity that is supplied to its electric utility business. In addition, MP is contractually obligated to provide power to PE to meet its load obligations in West Virginia. MP complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and WVPSC.



WP was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1916 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. WP provides transmission and distribution services in10,400square miles of southwestern, south-central and northern Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately1.6 million. WP complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.



ATSI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998. ATSI owns major, high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of approximately 7,800 circuit miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of345kV,138kV and69kV in the PJM Region. ATSI plans, operates, and maintains its transmission system in accordance with NERC reliability standards, and other applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, ATSI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and applicable state regulatory authorities.



TrAIL was organized under the laws of the State of Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia in 2006. TrAIL was formed to finance, construct, own, operate and maintain high-voltage transmission facilities in the PJM Region and has several transmission facilities in operation, including a500kV transmission line extending approximately150miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to a point of interconnection with Virginia Electric and Power Company in northern Virginia. TrAIL plans, operates and maintains its transmission system and facilities in accordance with NERC reliability standards, and other applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, TrAIL complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, and applicable state regulatory authorities.



FES was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997. FES provides energy-related products and services to retail and wholesale customers. FES also owns and operates, through its FG subsidiary, fossil generating facilities and owns, through its NG subsidiary, nuclear generating facilities. FENOC, a separate subsidiary of FirstEnergy, organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998, operates and maintains NG’s nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned by FG and NG, and purchases the uncommitted output of AE Supply, as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of OE and TE in certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements, and pursuant to full output, cost-of-service PSAs.



AE Supply was organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1999. AE Supply provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers. AE Supply also owns and operates fossil generating facilities and purchases and sells energy and energy-related commodities.



AGC was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1981. Approximately59%of AGC is owned by AE Supply and approximately41%by MP. AGC’s sole asset is a40%undivided interest in the Bath County, Virginia pumped-storage hydroelectric generation facility (1,200MW) and its connecting transmission facilities. AGC provides the generation capacity from this facility to AE Supply and MP.



FES, FG, NG, AE Supply and AGC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, and applicable state regulatory authorities. In addition, NG and FENOC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the NRC.



FESC provides legal, financial and other corporate support services to affiliated FirstEnergy companies.



Operating Segments



FirstEnergy's reportable operating segments are as follows: Regulated Distribution, Regulated Transmission and CES.



TheRegulated Distributionsegment distributes electricity through FirstEnergy’stenutility operating companies, serving approximatelysix millioncustomers within65,000square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York, and purchases power for its POLR, SOS, SSO and default service requirements in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland.












TheRegulated Transmissionsegment transmits electricity through transmission facilities owned and operated by ATSI, TrAIL, and certain of FirstEnergy's utilities (JCP&L, ME, PN, MP, PE and WP). This segment also includes the regulatory asset associated with the abandoned PATH project.



TheCESsegment, through FES and AE Supply, primarily supplies electricity to end-use customers through retail and wholesale arrangements, including competitive retail sales to customers primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland, and the provision of partial POLR and default service for some utilities in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Maryland, including the Utilities.



Corporate support and other businesses that do not constitute an operating segment, interest expense on stand-alone holding company debt and corporate income taxes are categorized as Corporate/Other for reportable business segment purposes. Additionally, reconciling adjustments for the elimination of inter-segment transactions are included in Corporate/Other.As of December 31, 2015, Corporate/Other had $4.2 billion of stand-alone holding company long-term debt, of which 28% was subject to variable-interest rates, and $1.7 billion was borrowed by FE under its revolving credit facility.



Additional information regarding FirstEnergy’s reportable segments is provided in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 18, Segment Information, of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FES does not have separate reportable operating segments.



Competitive and Regulated Generation



As of February 16, 2016, FirstEnergy’s generating portfolio consists of

16,952

MW of diversified capacity (CES —

13,162

MW and Regulated Distribution —

3,790

MW). Of the generation asset portfolio, approximately

9,218

MW (

54.4%

) consist of coal-fired capacity;

4,048

MW (

23.9%

) consist of nuclear capacity;

1,410

MW (

8.3%

) consist of hydroelectric capacity;

1,592

MW (

9.4%

) consist of oil and natural gas units;


MW (

2.9%

) consist of wind and solar power arrangements; and


MW (

1.1%

) consist of capacity entitlements to output from generation assets owned by OVEC. All units are located within PJM and sell electric energy, capacity and other products into the wholesale markets that are operated by PJM. Within CES' generation portfolio,

10,180

MW consist of FES' facilities that are operated by FENOC and FG (including entitlements from OVEC, wind and solar power arrangements), and except for portions of certain facilities that are subject to the sale and leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates for which the corresponding output of these arrangements is available to FES through power sales agreements, are all owned directly by NG and FG. Another

2,982

MW of the CES' portfolio consists of AE Supply's facilities, including AE Supply's entitlement to


MW from AGC's Bath County, Virginia hydroelectric facility and


MW of AE Supply's

3.01%

entitlement from OVEC's generation output. FES' generating facilities are concentrated primarily in Ohio and Pennsylvania and AE Supply's generating facilities are primarily located in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and Ohio.



Within the Regulated Distribution segment's portfolio,210MW consist of JCP&L's50%ownership interest in the Yards Creek hydroelectric facility in New Jersey; and3,580MW consist of MP's facilities, including487MW from AGC's Bath County, Virginia hydroelectric facility that MP partially owns and11MW of MP's0.49%entitlement from OVEC's generation output. MP's facilities are concentrated primarily in West Virginia.



Utility Regulation



State Regulation



Each of the Utilities' retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other matters are subject to regulation in the states in which it operates - in Maryland by the MDPSC, in Ohio by the PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC.The transmission operations of PE in Virginia are subject to certain regulations of the VSCC. In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to the utility.



As competitive retail electric suppliers serving retail customers primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland, FES and AE Supply are subject to state laws applicable to competitive electric suppliers in those states, including affiliate codes of conduct that apply to FES, AE Supply and their public utility affiliates.In addition, if any of the FirstEnergy affiliates were to engage in the construction of significant new transmission or generation facilities, depending on the state, they may be required to obtain state regulatory authorization to site, construct and operate the new transmission or generation facility.



Federal Regulation



With respect to their wholesale services and rates, the Utilities, AE Supply, ATSI, AGC, FES, FG, NG, PATH and TrAIL are subject to regulation by FERC. Under the FPA, FERC regulates rates for interstate wholesale sales, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. FERC regulations require ATSI, JCP&L, ME, MP, PE, PN, WP and TrAIL to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions. Transmission facilities of ATSI, JCP&L, ME, MP, PE, PN, WP and TrAIL are subject to functional control by PJM and transmission service using their transmission facilities is provided by PJM under the PJM Tariff. See FERC Matters below.












FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce in part by granting authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon showing that the seller cannot exert market power in generation or transmission or erect barriers to entry into markets. The Utilities, AE Supply, FES, FG, NG, FGMUC, Buchanan Generation and Green Valley each have been authorized by FERC to sell wholesale power in interstate commerce at market rates and have a market-based rate tariff on file with FERC, although major wholesale purchases remain subject to regulation by the relevant state commissions. As a condition to selling electricity on a wholesale basis at market-based rates, the Utilities, AE Supply, FES, FG, NG, FGMUC, Buchanan Generation and Green Valley, like other entities granted market-based rate authority, must file electronic quarterly reports with FERC listing their sales transactions for the prior quarter. However, consistent with its historical practice, FERC has granted AE Supply, FES, FG, NG, FGMUC, Buchanan Generation and Green Valley a waiver from certain reporting, record-keeping and accounting requirements that typically apply to traditional public utilities. Along with market-based rate authority, FERC also granted AE Supply, FES, FG, NG, FGMUC, Buchanan Generation and Green Valley blanket authority to issue securities and assume liabilities under Section 204 of the FPA.



The nuclear generating facilities owned and leased by NG, OE and TE, and operated by FENOC, are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security, environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the licenses. FENOC is the licensee for the operating nuclear plants and has direct compliance responsibility for NRC matters. FES controls the economic dispatch of NG’s plants. See Nuclear Regulation below.



Federally-enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, AE Supply, FG, FENOC, NG, ATSI and TrAIL.NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards toeightregional entities, including RFC.All of FirstEnergy's facilities are located within the RFC region.FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by RFC.



FirstEnergy believes that it is in compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable reliability standards.Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards.If and when such occurrences are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the occurrence and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an occurrence to RFC.Moreover, it is clear that NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards.Any inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk electric system could result in the imposition of financial penalties, and obligations to upgrade or build transmission facilities, that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Regulatory Accounting



The Utilities, AGC, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL recognize, as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, costs which FERC and the various state utility commissions, as applicable, have authorized for recovery/return from/to customers in future periods or for which authorization is probable. Without the probability of such authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities would have been charged to income as incurred. All regulatory assets and liabilities are expected to be recovered/returned from/to customers. Based on current ratemaking procedures, the Utilities, AGC, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL continue to collect cost-based rates for their transmission and distribution services and, in the case of PATH, for its abandoned plant, which remains regulated; accordingly, it is appropriate that the Utilities, AGC, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL continue the application of regulatory accounting to those operations. Regulatory accounting is applied only to the parts of the business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the business applying regulatory accounting no longer meets those requirements, previously recorded net regulatory assets or liabilities are removed from the balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.



FirstEnergy accounts for the effects of regulation through the application of regulatory accounting to the Utilities, AGC, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL since their rates are established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates that bind customers, are cost-based and can be charged to and collected from customers.



Maryland Regulatory Matters



PE provides SOS pursuant to a combination of settlement agreements, MDPSC orders and regulations, and statutory provisions.SOS supply is competitively procured in the form of rolling contracts of varying lengths through periodic auctions that are overseen by the MDPSC and a third party monitor.Although settlements with respect to SOS supply for PE customers have expired, service continues in the same manner until changed by order of the MDPSC.PE recovers its costs plus a return for providing SOS.



The Maryland legislature adopted a statute in 2008 codifying the EmPOWER Maryland goals to reduce electric consumption by10%and reduce electricity demand by15%, in each case by 2015, and requiring each electric utility to file a plan everythreeyears. PE's current plan, covering the three-year period 2015-2017, was approved by the MDPSC on December 23, 2014.The costs of










the 2015-2017 plan are expected to be approximately$66 millionfor that three-year period, of which$19 millionwas incurred through December 2015.On July 16, 2015, the MDPSC issued an order setting new incremental energy savings goals for 2017 and beyond, beginning with the level of savings achieved under PE's current plan for 2016, and ramping up 0.2% per year thereafter to reach 2%.PE continues to recover program costs subject to afive-year amortization.Maryland law only allows for the utility to recover lost distribution revenue attributable to energy efficiency or demand reduction programs through a base rate case proceeding, and to date, such recovery has not been sought or obtained by PE.On January 28, 2016, PE filed a request to increase plan spending by $2 million in order to reach the new goals for 2017 set in the July 16, 2015 order.



On February 27, 2013, the MDPSC issued an order (the February 27 Order) requiring the Maryland electric utilities to submit analyses relating to the costs and benefits of making further system and staffing enhancements in order to attempt to reduce storm outage durations.



The order further required the Staff of the MDPSC to report on possible performance-based rate structures and to propose additional rules relating to feeder performance standards, outage communication and reporting, and sharing of special needs customer information.



PE's responsive filings discussed the steps needed to harden the utility's system in order to attempt to achieve various levels of storm response speed described in the February 27 Order, and projected that it would require approximately



$2.7 billion



in infrastructure investments over






years to attempt to achieve the quickest level of response for the largest storm projected in the February 27 Order.



On July 1, 2014, the Staff of the MDPSC issued a set of reports that recommended the imposition of extensive additional requirements in the areas of storm response, feeder performance, estimates of restoration times, and regulatory reporting.



The Staff of the MDPSC also recommended the imposition of penalties, including customer rebates, for a utility's failure or inability to comply with the escalating standards of storm restoration speed proposed by the Staff of the MDPSC.

I

n addition, the Staff of the MDPSC proposed that the utilities be required to develop and implement system hardening plans, up to a rate impact cap on cost. The MDPSC conducted a hearing September 15-18, 2014, to consider certain of these matters, and has not yet issued a ruling on any of those matters.



On March 3, 2014, pursuant to the MDPSC's regulations, PE filed its recommendations for SAIDI and SAIFI standards to apply during the period 2016-2019.The MDPSC directed the Staff of the MDPSC to file an analysis and recommendations with respect to the proposed 2016-2019 SAIDI and SAIFI standards and any related rule changes which the Staff of the MDPSC recommended.The Staff of the MDPSC made its filing on July 10, 2015, and recommended that PE be required to improve its SAIDI results by approximately 20% by 2019. The MDPSC held a hearing on the Staff's analysis and recommendations on September 1-2, 2015, and approved PE's revised proposal for an improvement of 8.6% in its SAIDI standard by 2019 and maintained its SAIFI standard at 2015 levels.The proposed regulations incorporating the new SAIDI and SAIFI standards were approved as final in December 2015.



On April 1, 2015, PE filed its annual report on its performance relative to various service reliability standards set forth in the MDPSC’s regulations.The MDPSC conducted hearings on the reports filed by PE and the other electric utilities in Maryland on August 24, 2015 and subsequently closed its 2014 service reliability review.



New Jersey Regulatory Matters



JCP&L currently provides BGS for retail customers who do not choose a third party EGS and for customers of third party EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service.The supply for BGS is comprised oftwocomponents, procured through separate, annually held descending clock auctions, the results of which are approved by the NJBPU.OneBGS component reflects hourly real time energy prices and is available for larger commercial and industrial customers.The second BGS component provides a fixed price service and is intended for smaller commercial and residential customers.All New Jersey EDCs participate in this competitive BGS procurement process and recover BGS costs directly from customers as a charge separate from base rates.



On March 26, 2015, the NJBPU entered final orders which together provided an overall reduction in JCP&L's annual revenues of approximately$34 million, effective April 1, 2015.The final order in JCP&L's base rate case proceeding directed an annual base rate revenue reduction of approximately$115 million, including recovery of 2011 storm costs and the application of the NJBPU's modified CTA policy approved in the generic CTA proceeding referred to below.Additionally, the final order in the generic proceeding established to review JCP&L's major storm events of 2011 and 2012 approved the recovery of 2012 storm costs of$580 millionresulting in an increase in annual revenues of approximately$81 million. JCP&L is required to file another base rate case no later than April 1, 2017.The NJBPU also directed that certain studies be completed.On July 22, 2015, the NJBPU approved the NJBPU staff's recommendation to implement such studies, which will include operational and financial components and is expected to take approximately one year to complete.



In an Order issued October 22, 2014, in a generic proceeding to review its policies with respect to the use of a CTA in base rate cases (Generic CTA proceeding), the NJBPU stated that it would continue to apply its current CTA policy in base rate cases, subject to incorporating the following modifications: (i) calculating savings using afive-year look back from the beginning of the test year;(ii) allocating savings with 75% retained by the company and 25% allocated to rate payers;and (iii) excluding transmission assets of electric distribution companies in the savings calculation.On November 5, 2014, the Division of Rate Counsel appealed the NJBPU Order regarding the Generic CTA proceeding to the New Jersey Superior Court and JCP&L has filed to participate as a respondent in that proceeding.Briefing has been completed, and oral argument has not yet been scheduled.



On June 19, 2015, JCP&L, along with PN, ME, FET and MAIT made filings with FERC, the NJBPU, and the PPUC requesting authorization for JCP&L, PN and ME to contribute their transmission assets to MAIT, a new transmission-only subsidiary of FET.










On January 8, 2016, the NJBPU President issued an Order granting Rate Counsel’s Motion on the legal issue of whether MAIT can be designated as a public utility.The procedural schedule has been suspended until a decision is made on this issue.See Transfer of Transmission Assets to MAIT in FERC Matters below for further discussion of this transaction.



Ohio Regulatory Matters



The Ohio Companies operate under their ESP 3 plan which expires on May 31, 2016. The material terms of ESP 3 include:

•A base distribution rate freeze through May 31, 2016;

•Collection of lost distribution revenues associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs;

•Economic development and assistance to low-income customers for thetwo-year plan period at levels established in the prior ESP;

•A6%generation rate discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (FES is one of the wholesale suppliers to the Ohio Companies);

•A requirement to provide power to non-shopping customers at a market-based price set through an auction process;

•Rider DCR that allows continued investment in the distribution system for the benefit of customers;

•A commitment not to recover from retail customers certain costs related to transmission cost allocations for the longer of the five-year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2016 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million, subject to the outcome of certain FERC proceedings;

•Securing generation supply for a longer period of time by conducting an auction for athree-year period rather than aone-year period, in each of October 2012 and January 2013, to mitigate any potential price spikes for the Ohio Companies' utility customers who do not switch to a competitive generation supplier; and

•Extending the recovery period for costs associated with purchasing RECs mandated by SB221, Ohio's renewable energy and energy efficiency standard, through the end of the new ESP 3 period. This is expected to initially reduce the monthly renewable energy charge for all non-shopping utility customers of the Ohio Companies by spreading out the costs over the entire ESP period.



Notices of appeal of the Ohio Companies' ESP 3 plan to the Supreme Court of Ohio were filed by the Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council and the ELPC. The oral argument in this matter occurred on January 6, 2016.



The Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO on August 4, 2014 seeking approval of their ESP IV entitledPowering Ohio's Progress. The Ohio Companies filed a Stipulation and Recommendation on December 22, 2014, and supplemental stipulations and recommendations on May 28, 2015, and June 4, 2015.The evidentiary hearing on the ESP IV commenced on August 31, 2015 and concluded on October 29, 2015.On December 1, 2015, the Ohio Companies filed a Third Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation, which included PUCO Staff as a signatory party in addition toother signatories.The PUCO completed a hearing on the Third Supplemental Stipulation and Recommendation in January 2016. Initial briefs are due on February 16, 2016 and reply briefs are due on February 26, 2016.A final PUCO decision is expected in March 2016.



The proposed ESP IV supports FirstEnergy's strategic focus on regulated operations and better positions the Ohio Companies to deliver on their ongoing commitment to upgrade, modernize and maintain reliable electric service for customers while preserving electric security in Ohio. The material terms of the proposed ESP IV, as modified by the stipulations include:

•Aneight-year term (June 1, 2016 - May 31, 2024);

•Contemplates continuing a base distribution rate freeze through May 31, 2024;

•An Economic Stability Program that flows through charges or credits through Rider RRS representing the net result of the price paid to FES through a proposedeight-year FERC-jurisdictional PPA for the output of the Sammis and Davis-Besse plants and FES’ share of OVEC against the revenues received from selling such output into the PJM markets over the same period, subject to the PUCO’s termination of Rider RRS charges/credits associated with any plants or units that may be sold or transferred;

•Continuing to provide power to non-shopping customers at a market-based price set through an auction process;

•Continuing Rider DCR with increased revenue caps of approximately$30 millionper year from June 1, 2016 through May 31, 2019;$20 millionper year from June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2022; and$15 millionper year from June 1, 2022 through May 31, 2024 that supports continued investment related to the distribution system for the benefit of customers;

•Collection of lost distribution revenues associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs;

•A risk-sharing mechanism that would provide guaranteed credits under Rider RRS in years five through eight to customers  as follows: $10 million in year five, $20 million in year six, $30 million in year seven and $40 million in year eight;

•A continuing commitment not to recover from retail customers certain costs related to transmission cost allocations for the longer of the five-year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2016 or when the amount of such costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals $360 million, including such costs from MISO along with such costs from PJM, subject to the outcome of certain FERC proceedings;

•Potential procurement of100MW of new Ohio wind or solar resources subject to a demonstrated need to procure new renewable energy resources as part of a strategy to further diversify Ohio's energy portfolio;

•An agreement to file a case with the PUCO by April 3, 2017, seeking to transition to decoupled base rates for residential customers;

•An agreement to file by February 29, 2016, a Grid Modernization Business Plan for PUCO consideration and approval;

•A contribution of $3 million per year ($24 million over the eight year term) to fund energy conservation programs, economic development and job retention in the Ohio Companies service territory;










•Contributions of $2.4 million per year ($19 million over the eight year term) to fund a fuel-fund in each of the Ohio Companies service territories to assist low-income customers; and

•A contribution of $1 million per year ($8 million over the eight year term) to establish a Customary Advisory Council to ensure preservation and growth of the competitive market in Ohio.



On January 27, 2016, certain parties filed a complaint at FERC against FES, OE, CEI, and TE that requests FERC review of the ESP IV PPA under Section 205 of the FPA. In addition to such proceeding, parties have expressed an intention to challenge in the courts and/or before FERC, the PPA or PUCO approval of the ESP IV, if approved. Management intends to vigorously defend against such challenges.



Under Ohio's energy efficiency standards (SB221 and SB310), and based on the Ohio Companies' amended energy efficiency plans, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent of2,266GWHs in 2015 and2,288GWHs in 2016, and then begin to increase by 1% each year in 2017, subject to legislative amendments to the energy efficiency standards discussed below.The Ohio Companies are also required to retain the 2014 peak demand reduction level for 2015 and 2016 and then increase the benchmark by an additional0.75%thereafter through 2020, subject to legislative amendments to the peak demand reduction standards discussed below.



On September 30, 2015, the Energy Mandates Study Committee issued its report related to energy efficiency and renewable energy mandates, recommending that the current level of mandates remain in place indefinitely.The report also recommended: (i) an expedited process for review of utility proposed energy efficiency plans; (ii) ensuring maximum credit for all of Ohio's Energy Initiatives; (iii) a switch from energy mandates to energy incentives; and (iv) a declaration be made that the General Assembly may determine energy policy of the state.No legislation has yet been introduced to change the standards described above.



On March 20, 2013, the PUCO approved the three-year energy efficiency portfolio plans for 2013-2015, originally estimated to cost the Ohio Companies approximately$250 millionover the three-year period, which is expected to be recovered in rates.Actual costs may be lower for a number of reasons including the approval of the amended portfolio plan under SB310.On July 17, 2013, the PUCO modified the plan to authorize the Ohio Companies to receive20%of any revenues obtained from offering energy efficiency and DR reserves into the PJM auction.The PUCO also confirmed that the Ohio Companies can recover PJM costs and applicable penalties associated with PJM auctions, including the costs of purchasing replacement capacity from PJM incremental auctions, to the extent that such costs or penalties are prudently incurred.ELPC and OCC filed applications for rehearing, which were granted for the sole purpose of further consideration of the issue.On September 24, 2014, the Ohio Companies filed an amendment to their portfolio plan as contemplated by SB310, seeking to suspend certain programs for the 2015-2016 period in order to better align the plan with the new benchmarks under SB310.On November 20, 2014, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies' amended portfolio plan.Several applications for rehearing were filed, and the PUCO granted those applications for further consideration of the matters specified in those applications.



On September 16, 2013, the Ohio Companies filed with the Supreme Court of Ohio a notice of appeal of the PUCO's July 17, 2013 Entry on Rehearing related to energy efficiency, alternative energy, and long-term forecast rules stating that the rules issued by the PUCO are inconsistent with, and are not supported by, statutory authority.On October 23, 2013, the PUCO filed a motion to dismiss the appeal, which is still pending.The matter has not been scheduled for oral argument.



Ohio law requires electric utilities and electric service companies in Ohio to serve part of their load from renewable energy resources measured by an annually increasing percentage amount through 2026, subject to legislative amendments discussed above, except 2015 and 2016 that remain at the 2014 level.The Ohio Companies conducted RFPs in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to secure RECs to help meet these renewable energy requirements.In September 2011, the PUCO opened a docket to review the Ohio Companies' alternative energy recovery rider through which the Ohio Companies recover the costs of acquiring these RECs.The PUCO issued an Opinion and Order on August 7, 2013, approving the Ohio Companies' acquisition process and their purchases of RECs to meet statutory mandates in all instances except for certain purchases arising from one auction and directed the Ohio Companies to credit non-shopping customers in the amount of$43.4 million, plus interest,on the basis that the Ohio Companies did not prove such purchases were prudent.On December 24, 2013, following the denial of their application for rehearing, the Ohio Companies filed a notice of appeal and a motion for stay of the PUCO's order with the Supreme Court of Ohio, which was granted.On February 18, 2014, the OCC and the ELPC also filed appeals of the PUCO's order.The Ohio Companies timely filed their merit brief with the Supreme Court of Ohio and the briefing process has concluded.The matter is not yet scheduled for oral argument.



On April 9, 2014, the PUCO initiated a generic investigation of marketing practices in the competitive retail electric service market, with a focus on the marketing of fixed-price or guaranteed percent-off SSO rate contracts where there is a provision that permits the pass-through of new or additional charges.On November 18, 2015, the PUCO ruled that on a going-forward basis, pass-through clauses may not be included in fixed-price contracts for all customer classes.On December 18, 2015, FES filed an Application for Rehearing seeking to change the ruling or have it only apply to residential and small commercial customers.



Pennsylvania Regulatory Matters



The Pennsylvania Companies currently operate under DSPs that expire on May 31, 2017, and provide for the competitive procurement of generation supply for customers that do not choose an alternative EGS or for customers of alternative EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service.The default service supply is currently provided by wholesale suppliers through a mix of long-










term and short-term contracts procured through spot market purchases, quarterly descending clock auctions for 3, 12- and 24-month energy contracts, and one RFP seeking 2-year contracts to serve SRECs for ME, PN and Penn.



On November 3, 2015, the Pennsylvania Companies filed their proposed DSPs for the June 1, 2017 through May 31, 2019 delivery period, which would provide for the competitive procurement of generation supply for customers who do not choose an alternative EGS or for customers of alternative EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service.Under the proposed programs, the supply would be provided by wholesale suppliers though a mix of 12 and 24-month energy contracts, as well as one RFP for 2-year SREC contracts for ME, PN and Penn.In addition, the proposal includes modifications to the Pennsylvania Companies’ existing POR programs in order to reduce the level of uncollectibles the Pennsylvania Companies experience associated with alternative EGS charges.



Pursuant to Pennsylvania's EE&C legislation (Act 129 of 2008) and PPUC orders, Pennsylvania EDCs implement energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs.The Pennsylvania Companies' Phase II EE&C Plans are effective through May 31, 2016. Total costs of these plans are expected to be approximately$234 millionand recoverable through the Pennsylvania Companies' reconcilable EE&C riders.On June 19, 2015, the PPUC issued a Phase III Final Implementation Order setting: demand reduction targets, relative to each Pennsylvania Companies' 2007-2008 peak demand (in MW), at1.8%for ME,1.7%for Penn,1.8%for WP, and0%for PN; and energy consumption reduction targets, as a percentage of each Pennsylvania Companies’ historic 2010 forecasts (in MWH), at4.0%for ME,3.9%for PN,3.3%for Penn, and2.6%for WP.The Pennsylvania Companies filed their Phase III EE&C plans for the June 2016 through May 2021 period on November 23, 2015, which are designed to achieve the targets established in the PPUC's Phase III Final Implementation Order.EDCs are permitted to recover costs for implementing their EE&C plans. On February 10, 2016, the Pennsylvania Companies and the parties intervening in the PPUC's Phase III proceeding filed a joint settlement that resolves all issues in the proceeding and is subject to PPUC approval.



Pursuant to Act 11 of 2012, Pennsylvania EDCs may establish a DSIC to recover costs of infrastructure improvements and costs related to highway relocation projects with PPUC approval. Pennsylvania EDCs must file LTIIPs outlining infrastructure improvement plans for PPUC review and approval prior to approval of a DSIC.On October 19, 2015, each of the Pennsylvania Companies filed LTIIPs with the PPUC for infrastructure improvement over thefive-year period of 2016 to 2020 for the following costs: WP$88.34 million; PN$56.74 million; Penn$56.35 million; and ME$43.44 million. These amounts include all qualifying distribution capital additions identified in the revised implementation plan for the recent focused management and operations audit of the Pennsylvania Companies as discussed below. On February 11, 2016, the PPUC approved the Pennsylvania Companies' LTIIPs. On February 16, 2016, the Pennsylvania Companies filed DSIC riders for PPUC approval for quarterly cost recovery associated with the capital projects approved in the LTIIPs. The DSIC riders are expected to be effective July 1, 2016.



Each of the Pennsylvania Companies currently offer distribution rates under their respective Joint Petitions for Settlement approved on April 9, 2015 by the PPUC, which, among other things, provided for a total increase in annual revenues for all Pennsylvania Companies of$292.8 million, ($89.3 millionfor ME,$90.8 millionfor PN,$15.9 millionfor Penn and$96.8 millionfor WP), including the recovery of$87.7 millionof additional annual operating expenses, including costs associated with service reliability enhancements to the distribution system, amortization of deferred storm costs and the remaining net book value of legacy meters, assistance for providing service to low-income customers, and the creation of a storm reserve for each utility.Additionally, the approved settlements include commitments to meet certain wait times for call centers and service reliability standards. The new rates were effective May 3, 2015.



On July 16, 2013, the PPUC's Bureau of Audits initiated a focused management and operations audit of the Pennsylvania Companies as required everyeightyears by statute.The PPUC issued a report on its findings and recommendations on February 12, 2015, at which time the Pennsylvania Companies' associated implementation plan was also made public.In an order issued on March 30, 2015, the Pennsylvania Companies were directed to develop and file by May 29, 2015 a revised implementation plan regarding certain of the operational topics addressed in the report, including addressing certain reliability matters.The Pennsylvania Companies filed their revised implementation plan in compliance with this order.A final order adopting the plan, as revised, was entered on November 5, 2015.The cost of compliance for the Pennsylvania Companies is currently expected to range from approximately$200 millionto$230 million.



On June 19, 2015, ME and PN, along with JCP&L, FET and MAIT made filings with FERC, the NJBPU, and the PPUC requesting authorization for JCP&L, PN and ME to contribute their transmission assets to MAIT, a new transmission-only subsidiary of FET.Evidentiary hearings are scheduled to commence before the PPUC on February 29, 2016.A final decision from the PPUC is expected by mid-2016.See Transfer of Transmission Assets to MAIT in FERC Matters below for further discussion of this transaction.



West Virginia Regulatory Matters



MP and PE currently operate under a Joint Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement approved by the WVPSC on February 3, 2015, that provided for: a$15 millionincrease in annual base rate revenues effective February 25, 2015; the implementation of a Vegetation Management Surcharge to recover all costs related to both new and existing vegetation maintenance programs; authority to establish a regulatory asset for MATS investments placed into service in 2016 and 2017; authority to defer, amortize and recover over afive-year period through base rates approximately$46 millionof storm restoration costs; and elimination of the TTS for costs associated with MP's acquisition of the Harrison plant in October 2013 and movement of those costs into base rates.












On August 14, 2015, MP and PE filed their annual ENEC case with the WVPSC proposing an approximate$165.1 millionannual increase in rates effective January 1, 2016 or before, which would be a12.5%overall increase over existing rates.The original proposed increase was comprised of a$97 millionunder-recovered balance as of June 30, 2015, a projected$23.7 millionunder-recovery for the 2016 calendar year, and an actual under-recovered balance from MP and PE's TTS for Harrison Power Station of$44.4 million. On September 10, 2015, MP and PE filed an amendment addressing the results of the recent PJM Transitional Auctions for Capacity Performance, which resulted in a net decrease of$20.6 millionfrom the initial requested increase to$144.5 million. A settlement was reached among all the parties increasing revenues$96.9 millionand deferring other costs for recovery into 2017.The settlement was presented to the WVPSC on November 19, 2015and a final order approving the settlement without changes was issued on December 22, 2015, with rates effective on January 1, 2016.



On August 31, 2015, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC their biennial petition for reconciliation of the Vegetation Management Program Surcharge and regular review of the program proposing an approximate$37.7 millionannual increase in rates over a two year period, which is a2.8%overall increase over existing rates.The proposed increase was comprised of a$2.1 millionunder-recovered balance as of June 30, 2015, a projected$23.9 millionin under-recovery for the 2016/2017 rate effective period, and recovery of previously authorized deferred vegetation management costs from April 14, 2014 through February 24, 2015 in the amount of$49.9 million.A settlement was reached among all the parties increasing revenues$36.7 millionannually for the 2016-2017twoyear rate recovery period, and was presented to the WVPSC on November 19, 2015.A final order approving the settlement without changes was issued on December 21, 2015, with rates effective on January 1, 2016.



FERC Matters



PJM Transmission Rates



PJM and its stakeholders have been debating the proper method to allocate costs for new transmission facilities.While FirstEnergy and other parties advocate for a traditional "beneficiary pays" (or usage based) approach, others advocate for “socializing” the costs on a load-ratio share basis, where each customer in the zone would pay based on its total usage of energy within PJM.This question has been the subject of extensive litigation before FERC and the appellate courts, including before the Seventh Circuit.On June 25, 2014, a divided three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit ruled that FERC had not quantified the benefits that western PJM utilities would derive from certain new500kV or higher lines and thus had not adequately supported its decision to socialize the costs of these lines.The majority found that eastern PJM utilities are the primary beneficiaries of the lines, while western PJM utilities are only incidental beneficiaries, and that, while incidental beneficiaries should pay some share of the costs of the lines, that share should be proportionate to the benefit they derive from the lines, and not on load-ratio share in PJM as a whole.The court remanded the case to FERC, which issued an order setting the issue of cost allocation for hearing and settlement proceedings.Settlement discussions under a FERC-appointed settlement judge are ongoing.



In a series of orders in certain Order No. 1000 dockets, FERC asserted that the PJM transmission owners do not hold an incumbent “right of first refusal” to construct, own and operate transmission projects within their respective footprints that are approved as part of PJM’s RTEP process.FirstEnergy and other PJM transmission owners have appealed these rulings, and the question of whether FirstEnergy and the PJM transmission owners have a "right of first refusal" is now pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in an appeal of FERC's order approving PJM's Order No. 1000 compliance filing.



The outcome of these proceedings and their impact, if any, on FirstEnergy cannot be predicted at this time.



RTO Realignment



On June 1, 2011, ATSI and the ATSI zone transferred from MISO to PJM.While many of the matters involved with the move have been resolved,FERC denied recovery under ATSI's transmission rate for certain charges that collectively can be described as "exit fees" and certain other transmission cost allocation charges totaling approximately$78.8 millionuntil such time as ATSI submits a cost/benefit analysis demonstrating net benefits to customers from the transfer to PJM.Subsequently, FERC rejected a proposed settlement agreement to resolve the exit fee and transmission cost allocation issues, stating that its action is without prejudice to ATSI submitting a cost/benefit analysis demonstrating that the benefits of the RTO realignment decisions outweigh the exit fee and transmission cost allocation charges.FirstEnergy's request for rehearing of FERC's order rejecting the settlement agreement remains pending.



Separately, the question of ATSI's responsibility for certain costs for the “Michigan Thumb” transmission project continues to be disputed. Potential responsibility arises under the MISO MVP tariff, which has been litigated in complex proceedings before FERC and certain United States appellate courts.On October 29, 2015, FERC issued an order finding that ATSI and the ATSI zone do not have to pay MISO MVP charges for the Michigan Thumb transmission project. MISO and the MISO TOs filed a request for rehearing, which is pending at FERC. In the event of a final non-appealable order that rules that ATSI must pay these charges, ATSI will seek recovery of these charges through its formula rate.On a related issue, FirstEnergy joined certain other PJM transmission owners in a protest of MISO's proposal to allocate MVP costs to energy transactions that cross MISO's borders into the PJM Region.On January 22, 2015, FERC issued an order establishing a paper hearing on remand from the Seventh Circuit of the issue of whether any limitation on "export pricing" for sales of energy from MISO into PJM is justified in light of applicable FERC precedent.Certain PJM transmission owners, including FirstEnergy, filed an initial brief asserting that FERC’s prior ruling










rejecting MISO’s proposed MVP export charge on transactions into PJM was correct and should be re-affirmed on remand. The briefs and replies thereto are now before FERC for consideration.



In addition, in a May 31, 2011 order, FERC ruled that the costs for certain "legacy RTEP" transmission projects in PJM approved before ATSI joined PJM could be charged to transmission customers in the ATSI zone.The amount to be paid, and the question of derived benefits, is pending before FERC as a result of the Seventh Circuit's June 25, 2014 order described above under PJM Transmission Rates.



The outcome of the proceedings that address the remaining open issues related to costs for the "Michigan Thumb" transmission project and "legacy RTEP" transmission projects cannot be predicted at this time.



2014 ATSI Formula Rate Filing



On October 31, 2014, ATSI filed a proposal with FERC to change the structure of its formula rate from an “historical looking” approach, where transmission rates reflect actual costs for the prior year, to a “forward looking” approach, where transmission rates would be based on the estimated costs for the coming year, with an annual true up.On December 31, 2014, FERC issued an order accepting ATSI's filing effective January 1, 2015, subject to refund and the outcome of hearing and settlement proceedings.FERC subsequently issued an order on October 29, 2015, accepting a settlement agreement on the forward-looking formula rate, subject to minor compliance requirements.The settlement agreement provides for certain changes to ATSI's formula rate template and protocols, and also changes ATSI's ROE from12.38%to the following values: (i)12.38%from January 1, 2015 through June 30, 2015; (ii)11.06%from July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015; and (iii)10.38%from January 1, 2016, unless changed pursuant to section 205 or 206 of the FPA, provided the effective date for any change cannot be earlier than January 1, 2018.



Transfer of Transmission Assets to MAIT



On June 10, 2015, MAIT, a Delaware limited liability company, was formed as a new transmission-only subsidiary of FET for the purposes of owning and operating all FERC-jurisdictional transmission assets of JCP&L, ME and PN following the receipt of all necessary state and federal regulatory approvals.



On June 19, 2015, JCP&L, PN, ME, FET, and MAIT made filings with FERC, the NJBPU, and the PPUC requesting authorization for JCP&L, PN and ME to contribute their transmission assets to MAIT.



Additionally, the filings requested approval from the NJBPU and PPUC, as applicable, of: (i) a lease to MAIT of real property and rights-of-way associated with the utilities' transmission assets; (ii) a Mutual Assistance Agreement; (iii) MAIT being deemed a public utility under state law; (iv) MAIT's participation in FE's regulated companies' money pool; and (v) certain affiliated interest agreements.



If approved, JCP&L, ME, and PN will contribute their transmission assets at net book value and an allocated portion of goodwill in a tax-free exchange to MAIT, which will operate similar to FET's two existing stand-alone transmission subsidiaries, ATSI and TrAIL.



MAIT's transmission facilities will remain under the functional control of PJM, and PJM will provide transmission service using these facilities under the PJM Tariff.



During the third quarter of 2015, FirstEnergy responded to FERC Staff's request for additional information regarding the application.



FERC approval is expected during the first quarter of 2016 with final decisions expected from the NJBPU and PPUC by mid-2016.



Following FERC approval of the transfer, MAIT expects to file a Section 204 application with FERC, and other necessary filings with the PPUC and the NJBPU, seeking authorization to issue equity to FET, JCP&L, PN and ME for their respective contributions, and to issue debt.



MAIT will also make a Section 205 formula rate application with FERC to establish its transmission rate. See New Jersey and Pennsylvania in State Regulation above for further discussion of this transaction.





California Claims Matters



In October 2006, several California governmental and utility parties presented AE Supply with a settlement proposal to resolve alleged overcharges for power sales by AE Supply to the California Energy Resource Scheduling division of the CDWR during 2001.



The settlement proposal claims that CDWR is owed approximately



$190 million



for these alleged overcharges.



This proposal was made in the context of mediation efforts by FERC and the Ninth Circuit in several pending proceedings to resolve all outstanding refund and other claims, including claims of alleged price manipulation in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001.



The Ninth Circuit had previously remanded



one



of those proceedings to FERC, which dismissed the claims of the California parties in May 2011.



The California parties appealed FERC's decision back to the Ninth Circuit.



AE Supply joined with other intervenors in the case and filed a brief in support of FERC's dismissal of the case.



On April 29, 2015, the Ninth Circuit remanded the case to FERC for further proceedings. On November 3, 2015, FERC set for hearing and settlement procedures the remanded issue of whether any individual public utility seller’s violation of FERC’s market-based rate quarterly reporting requirement led to an unjust and unreasonable rate for that particular seller in California during the 2000-2001 period. Settlement discussions under a FERC-appointed settlement judge are ongoing. Requests for rehearing or clarification of FERC’s November 3, 2015 order by various parties, including AE Supply, remain pending.





In another proceeding, in May 2009, the California Attorney General, on behalf of certain California parties, filed a complaint with FERC against various sellers, including AE Supply, again seeking refunds for transactions in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001.The above-noted transactions with CDWR are the basis for including AE Supply in this complaint.AE Supply and other parties filed motions to dismiss, which FERC granted.The California Attorney General appealed FERC's dismissal of its complaint to the Ninth Circuit, which has consolidated the case with other pending appeals related to California refund claims, and stayed the proceedings pending further order.












The outcome of either of the above matters or estimate of loss or range of loss cannot be predicted at this time.



PATH Transmission Project



On August 24, 2012, the PJM Board of Managers canceled the PATH project, a proposed transmission line from West Virginia through Virginia and into Maryland which PJM had previously suspended in February 2011.



As a result of PJM canceling the project, approximately



$62 million



and approximately



$59 million



in costs incurred by PATH-Allegheny and PATH-WV (an equity method investment for FE), respectively, were reclassified from net property, plant and equipment to a regulatory asset for future recovery.



PATH-Allegheny and PATH-WV requested authorization from FERC to recover the costs with a proposed ROE of



10.9%



(

10.4%



base plus



0.5%



for RTO membership) from PJM customers over



five



years.



FERC issued an order denying the



0.5%



ROE adder for RTO membership and allowing the tariff changes enabling recovery of these costs to become effective on December 1, 2012, subject to settlement proceedings and hearing if the parties could not agree to a settlement.



On March 24, 2014, the FERC Chief ALJ terminated settlement proceedings and appointed an ALJ to preside over the hearing phase of the case, including discovery and additional pleadings leading up to hearing, which subsequently included the parties addressing the application of FERC's Opinion No. 531, discussed below, to the PATH proceeding.



On September 14, 2015, the ALJ issued his initial decision, disallowing recovery of certain costs.



The initial decision and exceptions thereto are now before FERC for review and a final order. FirstEnergy continues to believe the costs are recoverable, subject to final ruling from FERC.





FERC Opinion No. 531



On June 19, 2014, FERC issued Opinion No. 531, in which FERC revised its approach for calculating the discounted cash flow element of FERC’s ROE methodology, and announced the potential for a qualitative adjustment to the ROE methodology results.Under the old methodology, FERC used afive-year forecast for the dividend growth variable, whereas going forward the growth variable will consist of two parts: (a) afive-year forecast for dividend growth (2/3weight); and (b) a long-term dividend growth forecast based on a forecast for the U.S. economy (1/3weight). Regarding the qualitative adjustment, for single-utility rate cases FERC formerly pegged ROE at the median of the “zone of reasonableness” that came out of the ROE formula, whereas going forward, FERC may rely on record evidence to make qualitative adjustments to the outcome of the ROE methodology in order to reach a level sufficient to attract future investment.On October 16, 2014, FERC issued its Opinion No. 531-A, applying the revised ROE methodology to certain ISO New England transmission owners, andon March 3, 2015, FERC issued Opinion No. 531-B affirming its prior rulings. Appeals of Opinion Nos. 531, 532-A and 531-B are pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.FirstEnergy is evaluating the potential impact of Opinion No. 531 on the authorized ROE of our FERC-regulated transmission utilities and the cost-of-service wholesale power generation transactions of MP.



MISO Capacity Portability



On June 11, 2012, in response to certain arguments advanced by MISO, FERC requested comments regarding whether existing rules on transfer capability act as barriers to the delivery of capacity between MISO and PJM.FirstEnergy and other parties submitted filings arguing that MISO's concerns largely are without foundation, FERC did not mandate a solution in response to MISO's concerns.At FERC's direction, in May, 2015, PJM, MISO, and their respective independent market monitors provided additional information on their various joint issues surrounding the PJM/MISO seam to assist FERC's understanding of the issues and what, if any, additional steps FERC should take to improve the efficiency of operations at the PJM/MISO seam.Stakeholders, including FESC on behalf of certain of its affiliates and as part of a coalition of certain other PJM utilities, filed responses to the RTO submissions.The various submissions and responses are now before FERC for consideration.



Changes to the criteria and qualifications for participation in the PJM RPM capacity auctions could have a significant impact on the outcome of those auctions, including a negative impact on the prices at which those auctions would clear.



FTR Underfunding Complaint



In PJM, FTRs are a mechanism to hedge congestion and operate as a financial replacement for physical firm transmission service.FTRs are financially-settled instruments that entitle the holder to a stream of revenues based on the hourly congestion price differences across a specific transmission path in the PJM Day-ahead Energy Market.Due to certain language in the PJM Tariff, the funds that are set aside to pay FTRs can be diverted to other uses, which may result in “underfunding” of FTR payments.On February 15, 2013, FES and AE Supply filed a renewed complaint with FERC for the purpose of changing the PJM Tariff to eliminate FTR underfunding.On June 5, 2013, FERC issued an order denying the complaint, and on June 8, 2015, denied a request for rehearing of the June 5, 2013 order.



PJM Market Reform: PJM Capacity Performance Proposal



In December 2014, PJM submitted proposed “Capacity Performance” reforms of its RPM capacity and energy markets.On June 9, 2015, FERC issued an order conditionally approving the bulk of the proposed Capacity Performance reforms with an effective date of April 1, 2015, and directed PJM to make a compliance filing reflecting the mandate of FERC’s order.On July 9, 2015, several parties, including FESC on behalf of certain of its affiliates, submitted requests for rehearing for FERC's June 9, 2015 order, and PJM submitted its compliance filing as directed by the order.The requests for rehearing and PJM's compliance filing are pending before FERC.












In August and September 2015, PJM conducted RPM auctions pursuant to the new Capacity Performance rules. FirstEnergy’s net competitive capacity position as a result of the BRA and Capacity Performance transition auctions is as follows:



2016 - 20172017 - 20182018 - 2019*Legacy ObligationCapacity PerformanceLegacy ObligationCapacity PerformanceBase GenerationCapacity Performance(MW)($/MWD)(MW)($/MWD)(MW)($/MWD)(MW)($/MWD)(MW)($/MWD)(MW)($/MWD)ATSI2,765$114.234,210$134.00375$120.006,245$151.50—$149.986,245$164.77RTO875$59.373,675$134.00985$120.003,565$151.50240$149.983,930$164.77All Other Zones135$119.13—$134.00150$120.00—$151.5035**20**3,7757,8851,5109,81027510,195

*Approximately 885 MWs remain uncommitted for the 2018/2019 delivery year.

**Base Generation: 10 MWs cleared at $200.21/MWD and 25 MWs cleared at $149.98/MWD. Capacity Performance: 5 MWs cleared at $215.00/MWD and 15 MWs cleared at $164.77/MWD.



PJM Market Reform: FERC Order No. 745 - DR



On May 23, 2014, a divided three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an opinion vacating FERC Order No. 745, which required that, under certain parameters, DR participating in organized wholesale energy markets be compensated at LMP.The majority concluded that DR is a retail service, and therefore falls under state, and not federal, jurisdiction, and that FERC, therefore, lacks jurisdiction to regulate DR.The majority also found that even if FERC had jurisdiction over DR, Order No. 745 would be arbitrary and capricious because, under its requirements, DR was inappropriately receiving a double payment (LMP plus the savings of foregone energy purchases).On January 25, 2016, the United States Supreme Court reversed the opinionof the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and remanded for further action, finding FERC has statutory authority under the FPA to regulate compensation of demand response resources in FERC-jurisdictional wholesale power markets. The United States Supreme Court also reversed the holding that FERC's Order No. 745 was arbitrary and capricious, finding that the order included detailed support of the chosen compensation method.



On May 23, 2014, as amended September 22, 2014, FESC, on behalf of its affiliates with market-based rate authorization, filed a complaint asking FERC to issue an order requiring the removal of all portions of the PJM Tariff allowing or requiring DR to be included in the PJM capacity market, with a refund effective date of May 23, 2014.FESC also requested that the results of the May 2014 PJM BRA be considered void and legally invalid to the extent that DR cleared that auction because the participation of DR in that auction was unlawful. However, in light of the United States Supreme Court's January 25, 2016 decision discussed above, on January 29, 2016, FESC withdrew the complaint.





Capital Requirements



The centerpiece of FirstEnergy's regulated investment strategy is theEnergizing the Futuretransmission expansion plan, with an initial phase that includes $4.2 billion in investments from 2014 to 2017 to modernize FirstEnergy's transmission system. Through 2015, FirstEnergy's capital expenditures under this plan were $2.4 billion and in 2016 capital expenditures under this plan are currently projected to be $1 billion. Planned capital expenditures for 2016 for Regulated Distribution, CES, and Corporate/Other will be dependent upon the outcome of the Ohio Companies' ESP IV and remain subject to Board approval.



Actual capital expenditures for2015by operating company and reportable segment are shown in the following tables. Such costs include expenditures for the improvement of existing facilities and for the construction of transmission lines, distribution lines and substations, and other assets.










Operating Company2015 Actual(1)2015 Pension/OPEB Mark-to-Market Capital Costs2015 Actual Excluding Pension/OPEB Mark-to-Market Capital Costs(In millions)OE$198$37$161Penn60852CEI122(3)125TE45(1)46JCP&L30345258ME12020100PN16323140MP248(4)252PE99(2)101WP137—137ATSI617—617TrAIL212—212FES5121511AE Supply82—82Other subsidiaries98395Total$3,016$127$2,889



Reportable Segment2015 Actual(1)2015 Pension/OPEB Mark-to-Market Capital Costs2015 Actual Excluding Pension/OPEB Mark-to-Market Capital Costs(In millions)Regulated Distribution$1,290$113$1,177Regulated Transmission98610976CES6264622Corporate/Other114—114Total$3,016$127$2,889



(1)Includes an increase of approximately $127 million related to the capital component of the non-cash pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment.



The following table presents scheduled debt repayments for outstanding long-term debt as ofDecember 31, 2015, excluding capital leases for the next five years. PCRBs that are scheduled to be tendered for mandatory purchase prior to maturity are reflected in the applicable year in which such PCRBs are scheduled to be tendered.

20162017-2020Total(In millions)FirstEnergy$1,039$6,934$7,973FES$414$1,762$2,176












The following tables display consolidated operating lease commitments as ofDecember 31, 2015.

FirstEnergyOperating LeasesLease PaymentsPNBV(1)Net(In millions)2016$197$13$184201712231192018135—1352019116—116202091—91Years thereafter1,438—1,438Total minimum lease payments$2,099$16$2,083



(1)PNBV purchased a portion of the lease obligation bonds associated with certain sale and leaseback transactions. These arrangements effectively reduce lease costs related to those transactions.

Operating LeasesFES(In millions)2016$1312017822018101201997202068Years thereafter1,315Total minimum lease payments$1,794



FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergy’s business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest payments, dividend payments, and contributions to its pension plan. During 2015, FirstEnergy received $


million of cash dividends and capital returned from its subsidiaries and paid $


million in cash dividends to common shareholders. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for




and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Short-term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short-term borrowings. Long-term cash needs may be met through the issuance of long-term debt and/or equity. FirstEnergy expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long-term capital markets. Additionally, FirstEnergy also expects to issue long-term debt at certain Utilities and certain other subsidiaries to, among other things, refinance short-term and maturing debt in the ordinary course, subject to market and other conditions.

Additionally in 2016,

FirstEnergy has minimum required funding obligations of



$381 million



to its qualified pension plan, of which



$160 million



has been



contributed to date. FirstEnergy expects to make future contributions to the qualified pension plan in 2016 with cash, equity or a combination thereof, depending on, among other things, market conditions.



In the future, FirstEnergy may consider equity issuances to fund capital requirements in the regulated operations.



Any financing plans by FirstEnergy, including the issuance of equity, refinancing of maturing debt and reductions in short-term borrowings, are subject to market conditions and other factors.  No assurance can be given that any such issuances, financings, refinancings, or reductions in short-term debt, as the case may be, will be completed as anticipated. In addition, FirstEnergy expects to continually evaluate any planned financings, which may result in changes from time to time.



FE and certain of its subsidiaries participate in three five-year syndicated revolving credit facilities with aggregate commitments of $6.0 billion (Facilities), which are available until March 31, 2019. FirstEnergy had$1,708 millionand$1,799 millionof short-term borrowings as ofDecember 31, 2015and2014,respectively.FirstEnergy’s available liquidity under the Facilities as ofJanuary 31, 2016was$4.1 billion.



In January 2016, FirstEnergy’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share of outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable March 1, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 5, 2016. This dividend equates to an indicated annual dividend of $1.44 per share and is consistent with the dividends declared in 2015.












Nuclear Operating Licenses



In August 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis-Besse operating license for an additional twenty years.On December 8, 2015, the NRC renewed the operating license for Davis-Besse, which is now authorized to continue operation through April 22, 2037. Prior to that decision, the NRC Commissioners denied an intervenor's request to reopen the record and admit a contention on the NRC’s Continued Storage Rule.On August 6, 2015, this intervenor sought review of the NRC Commissioners' decision before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit.FENOC has moved to intervene in that proceeding.



The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for FES' nuclear facilities in service.

StationIn-Service DateCurrent License ExpirationBeaver Valley Unit 119762036Beaver Valley Unit 219872047Perry19862026Davis-Besse19772037



Nuclear Regulation



Under NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities.As ofDecember 31, 2015, FirstEnergy had approximately$2.3 billioninvested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI-2.The values of FirstEnergy's NDTs fluctuate based on market conditions.If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergy's obligation to fund the trusts may increase.Disruptions in the capital markets and their effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the NDTs.FE and FES have also entered into a total of$24.5 millionin parental guarantees in support of the decommissioning of the spent fuel storage facilities located at the nuclear facilities.As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guaranties, as appropriate.



As part of routine inspections of the concrete shield building at Davis-Besse in 2013, FENOC identified changes to the subsurface laminar cracking condition originally discovered in 2011.These inspections revealed that the cracking condition had propagated a small amount in select areas.FENOC's analysis confirms that the building continues to maintain its structural integrity, and its ability to safely perform all of its functions.In a May 28, 2015, Inspection Report regarding the apparent cause evaluation on crack propagation, the NRC issued a non-cited violation for FENOC’s failure to request and obtain a license amendment for its method of evaluating the significance of the shield building cracking.The NRC also concluded that the shield building remained capable of performing its design safety functions despite the identified laminar cracking and that this issue was of very low safety significance.FENOC plans to submit a license amendment application related to the Shield Building analysis in 2016.



On March 12, 2012, the NRC issued orders requiring safety enhancements at U.S. reactors based on recommendations from the lessons learned Task Force review of the accident at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.These orders require additional mitigation strategies for beyond-design-basis external events, and enhanced equipment for monitoring water levels in spent fuel pools.The NRC also requested that licensees including FENOC: re-analyze earthquake and flooding risks using the latest information available; conduct earthquake and flooding hazard walkdowns at their nuclear plants; assess the ability of current communications systems and equipment to perform under a prolonged loss of onsite and offsite electrical power; and assess plant staffing levels needed to fill emergency positions.These and other NRC requirements adopted as a result of the accident at Fukushima Daiichi are likely to result in additional material costs from plant modifications and upgrades at FirstEnergy's nuclear facilities.



Nuclear Insurance



The Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to$13.5 billion(assuming103units licensed to operate) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to$375 million; and (ii)$13.1 billionprovided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by the NRC pursuant thereto.Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to$127 million(but not more than$19 millionper unit per year in the event of more than one incident) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident.Based on their present nuclear ownership and leasehold interests, FirstEnergy’s maximum potential assessment under these provisions would be$509 million(NG-$501 million) per incident but not more than$76 million(NG-$75 million) in any one year for each incident.



In addition to the public liability insurance provided pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act, FirstEnergy has also obtained insurance coverage in limited amounts for economic loss and property damage arising out of nuclear incidents.FirstEnergy is a member of NEIL, which provides coverage (NEIL I) for the extra expense of replacement power incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of nuclear units.Under NEIL I, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries have policies, renewable annually, corresponding to their respective nuclear interests, which provide an aggregate indemnity of up to approximately$1.96 billion(NG-$1.93 billion) for replacement power costs incurred during an outage after an initial 20-week waiting period.Members of NEIL I pay annual premiums and are










subject to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer.FirstEnergy’s present maximum aggregate assessment for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year would be approximately$15 million(NG-$15 million).



FirstEnergy is insured as to its respective nuclear interests under property damage insurance provided by NEIL to the operating company for each plant.Under these arrangements, up to$2.75 billionof coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, debris removal and repair and/or replacement of property is provided.FirstEnergy pays annual premiums for this coverage and is liable for retrospective assessments of up to approximately$83 million(NG-$81 million).



FirstEnergy intends to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as described above as long as it is available.To the extent that replacement power, property damage, decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs and other such costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of FirstEnergy’s plants exceed the policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that plant, to the extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by FirstEnergy’s insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the future, FirstEnergy would remain at risk for such costs.



The NRC requires nuclear power plant licensees to obtain minimum property insurance coverage of$1.06 billionor the amount generally available from private sources, whichever is less.The proceeds of this insurance are required to be used first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in a safe and stable condition and can be maintained in that condition so as to prevent any significant risk to the public health and safety.Within 30 days of stabilization, the licensee is required to prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval.The plan is required to identify all cleanup operations necessary to decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption of operations or to commence decommissioning.Any property insurance proceeds not already expended to place the reactor in a safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC.FirstEnergy is unable to predict what effect these requirements may have on the availability of insurance proceeds.



Environmental Matters



Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters.Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergy's earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations.



Clean Air Act



FirstEnergy complies with SO2and NOx emission reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower-sulfur fuel, utilizing combustion controls and post-combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower or non-emitting plants and/or using emission allowances.



CSAPR requires reductions of NOx and SO2emissions intwophases (2015 and 2017), ultimately capping SO2emissions in affected states to2.4 milliontons annually and NOx emissions to1.2 milliontons annually.CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO2emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO2emission allowances with some restrictions.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ordered the EPA on July 28, 2015, to reconsider the CSAPR caps on NOx and SO2emissions from power plants in13states, including Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia.This follows the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court ruling generally upholding EPA’s regulatory approach under CSAPR, but questioning whether EPA required upwind states to reduce emissions by more than their contribution to air pollution in downwind states. EPA proposed a CSAPR update rule on November 16, 2015, that would reduce summertime NOx emissions from power plants in 23 states in the eastern U.S., including Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, beginning in 2017.Depending on how the EPA and the states implement CSAPR, the future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy's and FES' operations may result.



EPA tightened the primary and secondary NAAQS for ozone from the 2008 standard levels of75PPB to70PPB on October 1, 2015.EPA stated the vast majority of U.S. counties will meet the new70PPB standard by 2025 due to other federal and state rules and programs but EPA will designate those counties that fail to attain the new 2015 ozone NAAQS by October 1, 2017.States will then have roughlythreeyears to develop implementation plans to attain the new 2015 ozone NAAQS.Depending on how the EPA and the states implement the new 2015 ozone NAAQS, the future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy’s and FES’ operations may result.



MATS imposes emission limits for mercury, PM, and HCl for all existing and new fossil fuel fired electric generating units effective in April 2015 with averaging of emissions from multiple units located at a single plant.Under the CAA, state permitting authorities can grant an additional compliance year through April 2016, as needed, including instances when necessary to maintain reliability where electric generating units are being closed.On December 28, 2012, the WVDEP granted a conditional extension through April 16, 2016 for MATS compliance at the Fort Martin, Harrison and Pleasants plants.On March 20, 2013, the PA DEP granted an extension through April 16, 2016 for MATS compliance at the Hatfield's Ferry and Bruce Mansfield plants.On February 5, 2015, the OEPA granted an extension through April 16, 2016 for MATS compliance at the Bay Shore and Sammis plants.Nearly all spending for MATS compliance at Bay Shore and Sammis has been completed through 2014.In addition, an EPA enforcement policy document contemplates up to an additional year to achieve compliance, through April 2017, under certain circumstances for reliability critical units.On June 29, 2015, the United States Supreme Court reversed a U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit










decision that upheld MATS, rejecting EPA’s regulatory approach that costs are not relevant to the decision of whether or not to regulate power plant emissions under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act and remanded the case back to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit for further proceedings.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit later remanded MATS back to EPA, who represented to such court that the EPA is on track to issue a finalized MATS by April 15, 2016.Subject to the outcome of any further proceedings before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and how the MATS are ultimately implemented, FirstEnergy's total capital cost for compliance (over the 2012 to 2018 time period) is currently expected to be approximately$345 million(CES segment of$168 millionand Regulated Distribution segment of$177 million), of which$202 millionhas been spent through December 31, 2015($80 millionat CES and$122 millionat Regulated Distribution).



As a result of MATS, Eastlake Units 1-3, Ashtabula Unit 5 and Lake Shore Unit 18 were deactivated in April 2015, which completes the deactivation of5,429MW of coal-fired plants since 2012.



On August 3, 2015, FG, a subsidiary of FES, submitted to the AAA office in New York, N.Y., a demand for arbitration and statement of claim against BNSF and CSX seeking a declaration that MATS constituted a force majeure that excuses FG’s performance under its coal transportation contract with these parties.



Specifically, the dispute arises from a contract for the transportation by BNSF and CSX of a minimum of



3.5 million



tons of coal annually through 2025 to certain coal-fired power plants owned by FG that are located in Ohio.



As a result of and in compliance with MATS, those plants were deactivated by April 16, 2015. In January 2012, FG notified BNSF and CSX that MATS constituted a force majeure event under the contract that excused FG’s further performance.



Separately, on August 4, 2015, BNSF and CSX submitted to the AAA office in Washington, D.C., a demand for arbitration and statement of claim against FG alleging that FG breached the contract and that FG’s declaration of a force majeure under the contract is not valid and seeking damages including, but not limited to, lost profits under the contract through 2025.



As part of its statement of claim, a right to liquidated damages is alleged.



The arbitration panel has determined to consolidate the claims with a liability hearing expected to begin in November 2016, and, if necessary, a damages hearing is expected to begin in May 2017. The decision on liability is expected to be issued within sixty days from the end of the liability hearings.



FirstEnergy and FES continue to believe that MATS constitutes a force majeure event under the contract as it relates to the deactivated plants and that FG’s performance under the contract is therefore excused.



FirstEnergy and FES intend to vigorously assert their position in the arbitration proceedings.



If, however, the arbitration panel rules in favor of BNSF and CSX, the results of operations and financial condition of both FirstEnergy and FES could be materially adversely impacted.



FirstEnergy and FES are unable to estimate the loss or range of loss.





FG is also a party to another coal transportation contract covering the delivery of2.5 milliontons annually through 2025, a portion of which is to be delivered to another coal-fired plant owned by FG that was deactivated as a result of MATS.FG has asserted a defense of force majeure in response to delivery shortfalls to such plant under this contract as well.If FirstEnergy and FES fail to reach a resolution with the applicable counterparties to the contract, and if it were ultimately determined that, contrary to FirstEnergy’s and FES’ belief, the force majeure provisions of that contract do not excuse the delivery shortfalls to the deactivated plant, the results of operations and financial condition of both FirstEnergy and FES could be materially adversely impacted.FirstEnergy and FES are unable to estimate the loss or range of loss.



As to both coal transportation agreements referenced above, FES paid in settlement approximately$70 millionin liquidated damages for delivery shortfalls in 2014 related to its deactivated plants.



As to a specific coal supply agreement, FirstEnergy and AE Supply have asserted termination rights effective in 2015.In response to notification of the termination, the coal supplier commenced litigation alleging FirstEnergy and AE Supply do not have sufficient justification to terminate the agreement.FirstEnergy and AE Supply have filed an answer denying any liability related to the termination. This matter is currently in the discovery phase of litigation and no trial date has been established.There are6 milliontons remaining under the contract for delivery.At this time, FirstEnergy cannot estimate the loss or range of loss regarding the on-going litigation with respect to this agreement.



In September 2007, AE received an NOV from the EPA alleging NSR and PSD violations under the CAA, as well as Pennsylvania and West Virginia state laws at the coal-fired Hatfield's Ferry and Armstrong plants in Pennsylvania and the coal-fired Fort Martin and Willow Island plants in West Virginia.The EPA's NOV alleges equipment replacements during maintenance outages triggered the pre-construction permitting requirements under the NSR and PSD programs.On June 29, 2012, January 31, 2013, and March 27, 2013, EPA issued CAA section 114 requests for the Harrison coal-fired plant seeking information and documentation relevant to its operation and maintenance, including capital projects undertaken since 2007.On December 12, 2014, EPA issued a CAA section 114 request for the Fort Martin coal-fired plant seeking information and documentation relevant to its operation and maintenance, including capital projects undertaken since 2009.FirstEnergy intends to comply with the CAA but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the loss or range of loss.



Climate Change



There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at the state, federal and international level.Certain northeastern states are participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have implemented programs, primarily cap and trade mechanisms, to control emissions of certain GHGs.Additional policies reducing GHG emissions, such as demand reduction programs, renewable portfolio standards and renewable subsidies have been implemented across the nation.A June 2013, Presidential Climate Action Plan outlined goals to: (i) cut carbon pollution in America by17%by 2020 (from 2005 levels); (ii) prepare the United States for the impacts of climate change; and (iii) lead international efforts to combat global climate change and prepare for its impacts.GHG










emissions have already been reduced by 10% between 2005 and 2012 according to an April, 2014 EPA Report.Due to plant deactivations and increased efficiencies, FirstEnergy anticipates its CO2emissions will be reduced 25% below 2005 levels by 2015, exceeding the President’s Climate Action Plan goals both in terms of timing and reduction levels.



The EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act” in December 2009, concluding that concentrations of several key GHGs constitutes an "endangerment" and may be regulated as "air pollutants" under the CAA and mandated measurement and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including electric generating plants.



The EPA released its final regulations in August 2015, to reduce CO2emissions from existing fossil fuel fired electric generating units that would require each state to develop SIPs by September 6, 2016, to meet the EPA’s state specific CO2emission rate goals.



The EPA’s CPP allows states to request a



two

-year extension to finalize SIPs by September 6, 2018.



If states fail to develop SIPs, the EPA also proposed a federal implementation plan that can be implemented by the EPA that included model emissions trading rules which states can also adopt in their SIPs.



The EPA also finalized separate regulations imposing CO2emission limits for new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel fired electric generating units.



On June 23, 2014, the United States Supreme Court decided that CO2or other GHG emissions alone cannot trigger permitting requirements under the CAA, but that air emission sources that need PSD permits due to other regulated air pollutants can be required by the EPA to install GHG control technologies.



Numerous states and private parties filed appeals and motions to stay the CPP with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in October 2015.



On January 21, 2015, a panel of the D.C. Circuit denied the motions for stay and set an expedited schedule for briefing and argument. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the rule during the pendency of the challenges to the D.C. Circuit and U.S. Supreme Court. Depending on the outcome of further appeals and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, the future cost of compliance may be substantial.





At the international level, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change resulted in the Kyoto Protocol requiring participating countries, which does not include the U.S., to reduce GHGs commencing in 2008 and has been extended through 2020.The Obama Administration submitted in March 2015, a formal pledge for the U.S. to reduce its economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by26to28percent below 2005 levels by 2025 and joined in adopting the agreement reached on December 12, 2015 at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meetings in Paris.The Paris Agreement must be ratified by at least55countries representing at least55%of global GHG emissions before its non-binding obligations to limit global warming to well belowtwodegrees Celsius become effective.FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations.The CO2emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many of its regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non-CO2emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.



Clean Water Act



Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's plants.In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy's operations.



The EPA finalized CWA Section 316(b) regulations in May 2014, requiring cooling water intake structures with an intake velocity greater than 0.5 feet per second to reduce fish impingement when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system to a12%annual average and requiring cooling water intake structures exceeding 125 million gallons per day to conduct studies to determine site-specific controls, if any, to reduce entrainment, which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system.FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore plant's cooling water intake channel to divert fish away from the plant's cooling water intake system.Depending on the results of such studies and any final action taken by the states based on those studies, the future capital costs of compliance with these standards may be substantial.



The EPA proposed updates to the waste water effluent limitations guidelines and standards for the Steam Electric Power Generating category (40 CFR Part 423) in April 2013.On September 30, 2015, the EPA finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water.The treatment obligations will phase-in as permits are renewed on afive-year cycle from 2018 to 2023.The final rule also allows plants to commit to more stringent effluent limits for wet scrubber systems based on evaporative technology and in return have until the end of 2023 to meet the more stringent limits.Depending on the outcome of appeals and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, the future costs of compliance with these standards may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy's and FES' operations may result.



In October 2009, the WVDEP issued an NPDES water discharge permit for the Fort Martin plant, which imposes TDS, sulfate concentrations and other effluent limitations for heavy metals, as well as temperature limitations.Concurrent with the issuance of the Fort Martin NPDES permit, WVDEP also issued an administrative order setting deadlines for MP to meet certain of the effluent limits that were effective immediately under the terms of the NPDES permit.MP appealed, and a stay of certain conditions of the NPDES permit and order have been granted pending a final decision on the appeal and subject to WVDEP moving to dissolve the stay.The Fort Martin NPDES permit could require an initial capital investment ranging from$150 millionto$300 millionin order to install technology to meet the TDS and sulfate limits, which technology may also meet certain of the other effluent limits.Additional technology may be needed to meet certain other limits in the Fort Martin NPDES permit.MP intends to vigorously pursue these issues but cannot predict the outcome of the appeal or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.












FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CWA matters described above but, except as indicated above, cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the loss or range of loss.



Regulation of Waste Disposal



Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the RCRA, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act.Certain coal combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation.



In December 2014, the EPA finalized regulations for the disposal of CCRs (non-hazardous), establishing national standards regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring and protection procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to assure the safe disposal of CCRs from electric generating plants.Based on an assessment of the finalized regulations, the future cost of compliance and expected timing of spend had no significant impact on FirstEnergy's or FES' existing AROs associated with CCRs. Although unexpected, changes in timing and closure plan requirements in the future could impact our asset retirement obligations significantly.



Pursuant to a 2013 consent decree, PA DEP issued a 2014 permit requiring FE to provide bonding for 45 years of closure and post-closure activities and to complete closure within a 12-year period, but authorizing FE to seek a permit modification based on "unexpected site conditions that have or will slow closure progress."The permit does not require active dewatering of the CCRs, but does require a groundwater assessment for arsenic and abatement if certain conditions in the permit are met.The Bruce Mansfield plant is pursuing several options for disposal of CCRs following December 31, 2016 and expects beneficial reuse and disposal options will be sufficient for the ongoing operation of the plant.On May 22, 2015 and September 21, 2015, the PA DEP reissued a permit for the Hatfield's Ferry CCR disposal facility and then modified that permit to allow disposal of Bruce Mansfield plant CCR.On July 6, 2015 and October 22, 2015, the Sierra Club filed Notice of Appeals with the Pennsylvania Environmental Hearing Board challenging the renewal, reissuance and modification of the permit for the Hatfield’s Ferry CCR disposal facility.



FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the CERCLA.Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis.Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as ofDecember 31, 2015based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, FE's and its subsidiaries' proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay.Total liabilities of approximately$126 millionhave been accrued throughDecember 31, 2015.Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately$87 millionfor environmental remediation of former manufactured gas plants and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC.FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the loss or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time.



Fuel Supply



FirstEnergy currently has coal contracts with various terms to acquire approximately21.5 milliontons of coal for the year2016which is approximately100%of its estimated2016coal requirements. This contract coal is produced primarily from mines located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. The contracts expire at various times through2028. See Environmental Matters for additional information pertaining to the impact of increased environmental regulations on coal supply and transportation contracts applicable to certain deactivated coal-fired generating units.



FirstEnergy has contracts for all uranium requirements through2018and a portion of uranium material requirements through2024. Conversion services contracts fully cover requirements through2018and partially fill requirements through2024. Enrichment services are contracted for essentially all of the enrichment requirements for nuclear fuel through2020. A portion of enrichment requirements is also contracted for through2024. Fabrication services for fuel assemblies are contracted for both Beaver Valley units through2020and Davis-Besse through2025and through the current operating license period for Perry.



On-site spent fuel storage facilities are currently adequate for all FENOC operating units. An on-site dry cask storage facility has been constructed at Beaver Valley sufficient to extend spent fuel storage capacity through the end of current operating licenses at Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unity 2. Davis-Besse is planning to resume dry cask storage operations in2017which will extend on-site spent fuel storage capacity through the end of its recently extended operating license. Perry completed plant modification for dry cask storage in2012, loaded spent fuel into dry cask storage in 2012 and 2014 (referred to as a loading campaign), and has planned to conduct additional dry cask storage loading campaigns that will provide for sufficient spent fuel storage capacity through2046(end of current operating license plus a 20-year operating license extension).



The Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provided for the construction of facilities for the permanent disposal of high-level nuclear wastes, including spent fuel from nuclear power plants operated by electric utilities. NG has contracts with the DOE for the disposal of spent fuel for Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry. Yucca Mountain was approved in 2002 as a repository for underground disposal of spent nuclear fuel from nuclear power plants and high level waste from U.S. defense programs. The DOE










submitted the license application for Yucca Mountain to the NRC on June 3, 2008. The current Administration has stated the Yucca Mountain repository will not be completed and a Federal review of potential alternative strategies has been performed.



In light of this uncertainty, FirstEnergy has made arrangements for storage capacity as a contingency for the continuing delays of the DOE acceptance of spent fuel for disposal.



Natural gas demand at the combined cycle and peaking units is forecasted at approximately30million cubic feet in2016. Fuel oil and natural gas are also used to fuel peaking units and/or to ignite the burners prior to burning coal when a coal-fired plant is restarted. Fuel oil requirements have historically been low and are forecasted to remain so. Requirements are expected to average approximately9 milliongallons per year over the next five years.



System Demand

The2015maximum hourly demand for each of the Utilities was:

•OE—5,391MW onJuly 29, 2015;

•Penn—983MW onJuly 29, 2015;

•CEI—4,057MW onAugust 19, 2015;

•TE—2,149MW onSeptember 8, 2015;

•JCP&L—5,789MW onJuly 20, 2015;

•ME—2,770MW onJuly 20, 2015;

•PN—3,024MW onFebruary 19, 2015;

•MP—2,031MW onJanuary 7, 2015;

•PE—3,631MW onFebruary 20, 2015; and

•WP—3,942MW onFebruary 20, 2015.












Supply Plan



Regulated Commodity Sourcing



Certain of the Utilities have default service obligations to provide power to non-shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service territory. JCP&L’s default service or BGS supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. Default service for the Ohio Companies, Pennsylvania Companies and PE's Maryland jurisdiction are provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO (under the ESP), PPUC (under the DSP) and MDPSC (under the SOS), respectively. If any supplier fails to deliver power to any one of those Utilities’ service areas, the Utility serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as a LSE. West Virginia electric generation continues to be regulated by the WVPSC.



Unregulated Commodity Sourcing



The CES segment, through FES and AE Supply, primarily provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale of electricity and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale competitive supply arrangements. FES and AE Supply provide the power requirements of their competitive load-serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary-owned generation, non-affiliated contracts and spot market transactions.



FES and AE Supply have retail and wholesale competitive load-serving obligations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey, serving both affiliated and non-affiliated companies. FES and AE Supply provide energy products and services to customers under various POLR, shopping, competitive-bid and non-affiliated contractual obligations. Geographically, most of FES’ and AE Supply's obligations are in the PJM market area where all of their respective generation facilities are located.



Regional Reliability



All of FirstEnergy's facilities are located within the PJM Region and operate under the reliability oversight of a regional entity known as RFC. This regional entity operates under the oversight of NERC in accordance with a delegation agreement approved by FERC.



Competition



Within FirstEnergy’s Regulated Distribution segment, generally there is no competition for electric distribution service in the Utilities’ respective service territories in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York. Additionally, there has traditionally been no competition for transmission service in PJM. However, pursuant to FERC’s Order No. 1000 and subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals, non-incumbent developers now can compete for certain PJM transmission projects in the service territories of FirstEnergy’s Regulated Transmission segment. This could result in additional competition to build transmission facilities in the Regulated Transmission segment’s service territories while also allowing the Regulated Transmission segment the opportunity to seek to build facilities in non-incumbent service territories.



FirstEnergy's CES segment participates in deregulated energy markets in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey and Illinois, through FES and AE Supply. In these markets, the CES segment competes: (1) to provide retail generation service directly to end users; (2) to provide wholesale generation service to utilities, municipalities and co-operatives, which, in turn, resell to end users; and (3) in the wholesale market.



Seasonality



The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business and weather patterns can have a material impact on FirstEnergy’s operating results. Demand for electricity in our service territories historically peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also generally peaking at those times. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s annual results of operations and liquidity position may depend disproportionately on its operating performance during the summer and winter. Mild weather conditions may result in lower power sales and consequently lower earnings.



Research and Development



The Utilities, FES, FG, FENOC and ATSI participate in the funding of EPRI, which was formed for the purpose of expanding electric R&D under the voluntary participation of the nation’s electric utility industry — public, private and cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit utilities and their customers by promoting the development of new and improved technologies to help the utility industry meet present and future electric energy needs in environmentally and economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts research on all aspects of electric power production and use, including fuels, generation, and delivery, efficient management of energy use, environmental effects and energy analysis. The majority of EPRI’s R&D programs and projects are directed toward business solutions and their applications to problems facing the electric utility industry.



FirstEnergy participates in other initiatives with industry R&D consortiums and universities to address technology needs for its various business units. Participation in these consortiums helps the company address research needs in areas such as plant










operations and maintenance, major component reliability, environmental controls, advanced energy technologies, and transmission and distribution system infrastructure to improve performance, and develop new technologies for advanced energy and grid applications.












Executive Officers as of February 16, 2016



NameAgePositions Held During Past Five YearsDates

G. D. Benz56Senior Vice President, Strategy (B)2015-present

Vice President, Supply Chain (B)2012-2015



L. M. Cavalier64Chief Human Resources Officer (B)2015-present

Senior Vice President, Human Resources (B)*-2015



D. M. Chack65Senior Vice President, Marketing and Branding (B)2015-present

President, Ohio Operations (B)2011-2015

Vice President (C)2011-2015

Regional President (M)*-2011



M. J. Dowling51Senior Vice President, External Affairs (B)2011-present

Vice President, External Affairs (B)*-2011



B. L. Gaines62Senior Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Information Officer (B)2012-present

Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Information Officer (B)2011-2012

Vice President, Shared Services, Administration and Chief Information Officer (B)*-2011



C. E. Jones60President and Chief Executive Officer (A)(B)2015-present

Chief Executive Officer (F)2015-present

Executive Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (A)(B)2014

Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (B)*-2013

President (H)(I)2011-2015

President (C)(D)(L)*-2015

Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (A)*-2011



J. H. Lash65Executive Vice President & President, FE Generation (A)(B)2015-present

President, FE Generation (B)2011-2015

President (G)(J)2011-present

Chief Nuclear Officer (F)2011-2012

President and Chief Nuclear Officer (F)*-2011

President, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (B)*-2011



C. D. Lasky53Senior Vice President, Human Resources (B)2015-present

Vice President, Fossil Operations (J)2014-2015

Vice President, Fossil Operations & Engineering (J)2014

Vice President (G)2011-2015

Vice President, Fossil Fleet Operations (J)2011-2013

Vice President (J)*-2011

Vice President, Fossil Operations (E)*-2011



J. F. Pearson61Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2015-present

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2013-2015

Senior Vice President and Treasurer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2012

Vice President and Treasurer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(J)(L)*-2012

Vice President and Treasurer (G)(H)(I)2011-2012



D. R. Schneider54President (E)*-present



S. E. Strah52Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (B)2015-present

President (C)(D)(H)(I)(L)2015-present

Vice President, Distribution Support (B)2011-2015

Regional President (K)*-2011



K. J. Taylor42Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (A)(B)2013-present

Vice President and Controller (C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2013-present

Vice President and Assistant Controller (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2012-2013

Assistant Controller (A)(B)(C)(D)(L)*-2012

Assistant Controller (H)(I)2011-2012

Assistant Controller (E)(F)(G)(J)2012



L. L. Vespoli56Executive Vice President, Markets & Chief Legal Officer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)(J)(L)2014-present

Executive Vice President and General Counsel (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)(J)(L)*-2013

Executive Vice President and General Counsel (G)(H)(I)2011-2013



* Indicates position held at least since January 1, 2011(E) Denotes executive officer of FES(J) Denotes executive officer of FG(A) Denotes executive officer of FE(F) Denotes executive officer of FENOC(K) Denotes executive officer of OE(B) Denotes executive officer of FESC(G) Denotes executive officer of AGC(L) Denotes executive officer of ATSI(C) Denotes executive officer of OE, CEI and TE(H) Denotes executive officer of MP, PE and WP(M) Denotes executive officer of CEI(D) Denotes executive officer of ME, PN and Penn(I) Denotes executive officer of TrAIL and FET
















Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2015, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries had15,781employees located in the United States as follows:

TotalEmployeesBargainingUnitEmployeesFESC4,179614OE1,087713CEI945635TE331237Penn190137JCP&L1,3781,082ME658501PN756503FES125—FG1,7381,070FENOC2,6531,186MP589382PE460283WP692448Total15,7817,791



As ofDecember 31, 2015, the IBEW, the UWUA and the OPEIU unions collectively represented approximately 6,900 of FirstEnergy's employees. There are 22 CBAs between FirstEnergy's subsidiaries and its unions, most of which have three year terms. In 2015, certain of FirstEnergy's subsidiaries reached new agreements on CBAs with four different IBEW locals, covering approximately 1,680 employees. These contracts will expire in 2018 and 2019. Additionally, in early 2016, PN reached a new agreement with IBEW local 459, covering approximately 425 employees, which will expire in 2021.



On July 1, 2015, IBEW Local 29, which represents approximately 17 employees at the Beaver Valley nuclear plant, ratified a new agreement that will expire September 30, 2018. On October 14, 2015, IBEW Local 777 CC, which represents approximately 161 call center employees in Reading, PA, ratified a new agreement that will expire on October 31, 2018. On November 12, 2015, IBEW Local 1289, which represents approximately 1,086 employees at JCP&L, ratified a new agreement that will expire on October 31, 2018. On November 24, 2015, IBEW Local 245, which represents approximately 416 employees of TE, the Davis-Besse nuclear plant and the Bay Shore generating station, ratified a new agreement that will expire on October 31, 2019.



The agreement with IBEW Local 272, which represents approximately 238 employees at the Bruce Mansfield Plant, expired on February 15, 2014. On October 27, 2015, following nearly two years of bargaining, FirstEnergy declared impasse and implemented terms and conditions of employment from its last comprehensive offer to settle. FirstEnergy continues to engage in negotiations with IBEW Local 272, and work continuation plans are in place in the event of a work stoppage. The agreement with UWUA Local 270, which represents approximately 76 employees at the Perry Nuclear Plant expired on November 16, 2015. The parties continue to negotiate for a new contract and work continuation plans are in place in the event of a work stoppage.



FirstEnergy Website and Other Social Media Sites and Applications



Each of the registrants’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also made available free of charge on or through the "Investors" page of FirstEnergy’s Internet website at www.firstenergycorp.com. The public may read and copy any reports or other information that the registrants file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the SEC's public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These documents are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.



These SEC filings are posted on FirstEnergy's website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. Additionally, the registrants routinely post additional important information including press releases, investor presentations and notices of upcoming events, under the "Investors" section of FirstEnergy’s Internet website and recognize FirstEnergy’s Internet website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors may be notified of postings to the website by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds on the "Investors" page of FirstEnergy's Internet website or through push alerts from FirstEnergy Investor Relations apps for Apple Inc.'s iPad® and iPhone® devices, which can be installed for free at the Apple® online store. FirstEnergy also uses Twitter® and Facebook® as additional channels of distribution to reach public investors and as a supplemental means










of disclosing material non-public information for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Information contained on FirstEnergy’s Internet website, posted on FirstEnergy's Facebook® page or disseminated through Twitter®, and any corresponding applications, shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be part of, this report.












