ITEM 1.BUSINESS



The Company

FirstEnergy Corp. was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1996. FirstEnergy’s principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the outstanding common stock of its principal subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn (a wholly owned subsidiary of OE), ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed, Penelec, AE and its principal subsidiaries (AE Supply, AGC, MP, PE, WP, AET and its principal subsidiaries (TrAIL and PATH), and AESC), FES and its principal subsidiaries (FGCO and NGC), and FESC. AE merged with a subsidiary of FirstEnergy on February 25, 2011, with AE continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. In addition, FirstEnergy holds all of the outstanding common stock of other direct subsidiaries including: FirstEnergy Properties, Inc., FEV, FENOC, FELHC, Inc., FirstEnergy Facilities Services Group, LLC, FirstEnergy Fiber Holdings Corp., GPU Power, Inc., GPU Nuclear, Inc., MARBEL Energy Corporation and FESC.

Subsidiaries

FirstEnergy’s revenues are primarily derived from electric service provided by its utility operating subsidiaries (OE, CEI, TE, Penn, ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed, Penelec, MP, PE, WP and TrAIL) and the sale of energy and related products and services by its unregulated competitive subsidiaries, FES and AE Supply.

The Utilities’ combined service areas encompass approximately 65,000 square miles in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York. The areas they serve have a combined population of approximately 13.6 million.

OE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.3 million. OE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

OE owns all of Penn’s outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in the State of Ohio. Penn furnishes electric service to communities in 1,100 square miles of western Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.4 million. Penn complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.

CEI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1892 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of 1,600 square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.7 million. CEI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

TE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1901 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of 2,300 square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.7 million. TE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

ATSI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998. ATSI owns major, high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of approximately 5,800 pole miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of 345 kV, 138 kV and 69 kV. On June 1, 2011, ATSI transferred operational control of its transmission facilities from MISO to PJM (see FERC Matters for RTO Realignment). ATSI plans, operates, and maintains its transmission system in accordance with NERC reliability standards, and applicable regulatory requirements to ensure reliable service to customers. ATSI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and applicable state regulatory authorities.

JCP&L was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1925 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. JCP&L provides transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.7 million. JCP&L also has an ownership interest in a hydroelectric generating facility. JCP&L complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and the NJBPU.

Met-Ed was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1922 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Met-Ed provides transmission and distribution services in 3,300 square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.2 million. Met-Ed complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.

Penelec was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1919 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Penelec provides transmission and distribution services in 17,600 square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.3 million. Penelec, as lessee of the property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, also serves customers in the Waverly, New York vicinity.










Penelec complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, NYPSC and PPUC, as applicable.

PE was organized under the laws of the State of Maryland in 1923 and in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1974. PE is authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Virginia and the States of West Virginia and Maryland. PE owns property and does business as an electric public utility in those states. PE provides transmission and/or distribution services in 5,500 square miles area in portions of Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.9 million. PE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, MDPSC, VSCC, and WVPSC, as applicable.

MP was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1924 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in the state of West Virginia. MP provides transmission and distribution services in 13,000 square miles of northern West Virginia. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.8 million. MP also owns generation assets. As of December 31, 2011, MP owned or contractually controlled 2,737 MWs of generation capacity that is supplied to its electric utility business. In addition, MP is contractually obligated to provide PE with the power that it needs to meet its load obligations in West Virginia. MP complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and WVPSC, as applicable.

WP was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1916 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. WP provides transmission and distribution services in 10,400 square miles of southwestern, south-central and northern Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.6 million. WP complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC, as applicable.

TrAIL was organized under the laws of the State of Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia in 2006. TrAIL was formed in connection with the management and financing of a new 500kV transmission line. On May 19, 2011, TrAIL completed the construction and energized the transmission line. The transmission line extends approximately 150 miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to a point of interconnection with Virginia Electric and Power Company, a subsidiary of Dominion Resources, in northern Virginia. TrAIL complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, WVPSC, VSCC and PPUC, as applicable.

FES was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997. FES provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers. FES also owns and operates, through its subsidiary, FGCO, fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and owns, through its subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergy’s nuclear generating facilities. FENOC, a separate subsidiary of FirstEnergy, organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998, operates and maintains NGC’s nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned by FGCO and NGC, as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of OE and TE in certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates, pursuant to full output, cost-of-service PSAs.

AE Supply was organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1999. AE Supply provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers. AE Supply also owns and operates fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and purchases and sells energy and energy-related commodities.

AGC was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1981. AGC is owned approximately 59% by AE Supply and approximately 41% by MP. AGC’s sole asset is a 40% undivided interest in the Bath County, Virginia pumped-storage hydroelectric generation facility and its connecting transmission facilities. AGC provides the generation capacity from this facility to AE Supply and MP.

Competitive and Regulated Generation

FirstEnergy’s generating portfolio includes 22,810 MW of diversified capacity (Competitive — 19,874 MW and Regulated — 2,936 MW), including 3,349 MW (Competitive - 2,689 MW and Regulated - 660 MW) of capacity that is planned to be retired by September 1, 2012, subject to review of reliability impacts by PJM (See Part I, Item 2. Properties). Of the generation asset portfolio, approximately 14,678 MW (64.4%), consist of coal-fired capacity; 3,991 MW (17.5%) consist of nuclear capacity; 1,832 MW (8.0%) consist of hydroelectric capacity; 1,745 MW (7.7%) consist of oil and natural gas units; 376 MW (1.6%) consist of wind facilities; and 188 MW (0.8%) consist of capacity from FGCO's 4.85% and AE's 3.5% entitlements to the generation output owned by OVEC. All units are located within PJM and sell electric energy, capacity and other products into the wholesale markets that are operated by PJM.

Within the Competitive portfolio, 12,368 MW consist of FES' facilities that are operated by FENOC and FGCO (including entitlements to OVEC), except for portions of certain facilities that are subject to the sale and leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates referred to above for which the corresponding output is available to FES through power sale agreements, and are owned directly by NGC and FGCO, respectively. 7,506 MW consist of AE Supply's facilities, including 660 MW from AGC's Bath County, Virginia hydroelectric facility that AE Supply partially owns. FES' generating facilities are concentrated primarily in Ohio and Pennsylvania and AE Supply's primarily in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Maryland.

Within the Regulated portfolio, 200 MW consist of JCP&L's 50% ownership interest in the Yards Creek hydroelectric facility in New Jersey; 2,725 MW consist of MP's facilities, including 450 MW from AGC's Bath County, Virginia hydroelectric facility that MP partially owns. MP's facilities are concentrated primarily in West Virginia. 11 MW consist of AE's 3.5% entitlement to OVEC's generation output.










FES, FGCO, NGC, AE Supply and AGC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC and the FERC. In addition, NGC and FENOC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the NRC.

FESC and AESC provide legal, financial and other corporate support services to affiliated FirstEnergy companies.

Reference is made to Note 19, Segment Information, of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding FirstEnergy’s reportable segments, which information is incorporated herein by reference.



Utility Regulation



State Regulation

Each of the Utilities’ retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other matters are subject to regulation in the states in which each company operates — in Maryland by the MDPSC, in Ohio by the PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC. The transmission operations of PE in Virginia are subject to certain regulations of the VSCC. In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to the utility.

As a competitive retail electric supplier serving retail customers primarily in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and Maryland, FES and AE Supply are subject to state laws applicable to competitive electric suppliers in those states, including affiliate codes of conduct that apply to FES, AE Supply and its public utility affiliates. In addition, if FES, AE Supply or any of its subsidiaries were to engage in the construction of significant new generation facilities, they would also be subject to state siting authority.



Federal Regulation

With respect to their wholesale and interstate electric operations and rates, the Utilities, AE Supply, ATSI, AGC, FES, FGCO, NGC, PATH and TrAIL are subject to regulation by the FERC. Under the FPA, the FERC regulates rates for interstate sales at wholesale, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. The FERC regulations require ATSI, JCP&L, Met-Ed, MP, PATH, PE, Penelec, WP and TrAIL to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions. Through May 31, 2011, transmission service over ATSI’s facilities was provided by MISO under its open access transmission tariff. For JCP&L, Met-Ed, MP, PATH, PE, Penelec, WP and TrAIL and, effective June 1, 2011 for ATSI, transmission service is provided by PJM under its open access transmission tariff. The FERC also regulates unbundled transmission service to retail customers. See FERC Matters RTO Realignment below.

The nuclear generating facilities owned and leased by NGC are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the licenses. FENOC is the licensee for the operating nuclear plants and has direct compliance responsibility for NRC matters. FES controls the economic dispatch of NGC’s plants. See Nuclear Regulation below.



Regulatory Accounting

The Utilities, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL recognize, as regulatory assets, costs which the FERC, PUCO, PPUC MDPSC, WVPSC and NJBPU have authorized for recovery from customers in future periods or for which authorization is probable. Without the probability of such authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory assets would have been charged to income as incurred. All regulatory assets are expected to be recovered from customers under the Utilities’ respective transition and regulatory plans. Based on those plans, the Utilities, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL continue to bill and collect cost-based rates for their transmission and distribution services, which remain regulated; accordingly, it is appropriate that the Utilities, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL continue the application of regulatory accounting to those operations.

FirstEnergy accounts for the effects of regulation through the application of regulatory accounting to the Utilities, ATSI, PATH and TrAIL since each of their rates are established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates that bind customers, are cost-










based and can be charged to and collected from customers.

An enterprise meeting all of these criteria capitalizes costs that would otherwise be charged to expense (regulatory assets) if the rate actions of its regulator make it probable that those costs will be recovered in future revenue. Regulatory accounting is applied only to the parts of the business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the business applying regulatory accounting no longer meets those requirements, previously recorded net regulatory assets are removed from the balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.



Reliability Initiatives

Federally-enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, AE Supply, FGCO, FENOC, ATSI and TrAIL. The NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to eight regional entities, including RFC. All of FirstEnergy's facilities are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by the RFC.



FirstEnergy believes that it is in compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an item to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. The financial impact of complying with future new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time; however, 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the future reliability standards be recovered in rates. Any future inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



On December 9, 2008, a transformer at JCP&L's Oceanview substation failed, resulting in an outage on certain bulk electric system (transmission voltage) lines out of the Oceanview and Atlantic substations resulting in customers losing power for up to eleven hours. On March 31, 2009, the NERC initiated a Compliance Violation Investigation in order to determine JCP&L's contribution to the electrical event and to review any potential violation of NERC Reliability Standards associated with the event. NERC has submitted first and second Requests for Information regarding this and another related matter. JCP&L is complying with these requests. JCP&L is not able to predict what actions, if any, the NERC may take with respect to this matter.



On August 23, 2010, FirstEnergy self-reported to RFC a vegetation encroachment event on a Met-Ed230kV line. This event did not result in a fault, outage, operation of protective equipment, or any other meaningful electric effect on any FirstEnergy transmission facilities or systems. On August 25, 2010, RFC issued a notice of enforcement to investigate the incident. FirstEnergy submitted a data response to RFC on September 27, 2010. On July 8, 2011, RFC and Met-Ed signed a settlement agreement to resolve all outstanding issues related to the vegetation encroachment event. The settlement calls for Met-Ed to pay a penalty of$650,000, and for FirstEnergy to perform certain mitigating actions. These mitigating actions include inspecting FirstEnergy's transmission system using LiDAR technology, and reporting the results of inspections, and any follow-up work, to RFC. FirstEnergy was performing the LiDAR work in response to certain other industry directives issued by NERC in 2010. NERC subsequently approved the settlement agreement and, on September 30, 2011, submitted the approved settlement to FERC for final approval. FERC approved the settlement agreement on October 28, 2011. Met-Ed subsequently paid the$650,000penalty and, on December 31, 2011, RFC sent written notice that this matter has been closed.



In 2011, RFC performed routine compliance audits of parts of FirstEnergy's bulk-power system and generally found the audited systems and process to be in full compliance with all audited reliability standards. RFC will perform additional audits in 2012.



Maryland Regulatory Matters

By statute enacted in 2007, the obligation of Maryland utilities to provide SOS to residential and small commercial customers, in exchange for recovery of their costs plus a reasonable profit, was extended indefinitely. The legislation also established a5-year cycle (to begin in 2008) for the MDPSC to report to the legislature on the status of SOS. PE now conducts rolling auctions to procure the power supply necessary to serve its customer load pursuant to a plan approved by the MDPSC. However, the terms on which PE will provide SOS to residential customers after the current settlement expires at the end of 2012 will depend on developments with respect to SOS in Maryland over the coming year, including but not limited to, possible MDPSC decisions in the proceedings discussed below.

The MDPSC opened a new docket in August 2007 to consider matters relating to possible “managed portfolio” approaches to SOS and other matters. “Phase II” of the case addressed utility purchases or construction of generation, bidding for procurement of demand response resources and possible alternatives if the TrAIL and PATH projects were delayed or defeated. It is unclear when the MDPSC will issue its findings in this proceeding.












In September 2009, the MDPSC opened a new proceeding to receive and consider proposals for construction of new generation resources in Maryland. In December 2009, Governor Martin O'Malley filed a letter in this proceeding in which he characterized the electricity market in Maryland as a “failure” and urged the MDPSC to use its existing authority to order the construction of new generation in Maryland, vary the means used by utilities to procure generation and include more renewables in the generation mix. In December 2010, the MDPSC issued an order soliciting comments on a model RFP for solicitation of long-term energy commitments by Maryland electric utilities. PE and numerous other parties filed comments, and on September 29, 2011, the MDPSC issued an order requiring the utilities to issue the RFP crafted by the MDPSC by October 7, 2011. The RFPs were issued by the utilities as ordered by the MDPSC.The order, as amended, indicated that bids were due by January 20, 2012, and that the MDPSC would be the entity evaluating all bids. The Chairman of the MDPSC has stated publicly that several bids were received, but no other information was released. After receipt of further comments from interested parties, including PE, on January 13, 2012, a hearing on whether more generation is needed, irrespective of what bids may have been received, was held on January 31, 2012. There has been no further action on this matter.

In September 2007, the MDPSC issued an order that required the Maryland utilities to file detailed plans for how they will meet the “EmPOWER Maryland” proposal that electric consumption be reduced by10%and electricity demand be reduced by15%, in each case by 2015.



The Maryland legislature in 2008 adopted a statute codifying the EmPOWER Maryland goals. In 2008, PE filed its comprehensive plans for attempting to achieve those goals, asking the MDPSC to approve programs for residential, commercial, industrial, and governmental customers, as well as a customer education program. The MDPSC ultimately approved the programs in August 2009 after certain modifications had been made as required by the MDPSC, and approved cost recovery for the programs in October 2009. Expenditures were estimated to be approximately$101 millionfor the PE programs for the period of 2009 to 2015 and would be recovered over thatsixyear period. Meanwhile, after extensive meetings with the MDPSC Staff and other stakeholders, PE's plans for additional and improved programs for the period 2012-2014 were filed on August 31, 2011.The MDPSC held hearings on PE's and the other utilities' plans in October 2011, and on December 22, 2011, issued an order approving Potomac Edison's plan with various modifications and follow-up assignments. On January 23, 2012, PE filed a Request for Rehearing because additional facts not considered by the MDPSC demonstrate, among other things, that conservation voltage reduction program expenditures should be accorded cost recovery through the EmPOWER surcharge, as has been provided for all other EmPOWER programs as opposed to recovery of those expenditures being addressed in a future base rate case as the MDPSC found in its order.

In March 2009, the MDPSC issued an order temporarily suspending the right of all electric and gas utilities in the state to terminate service to residential customers for non-payment of bills. The MDPSC subsequently issued an order making various rule changes relating to terminations, payment plans, and customer deposits that make it more difficult for Maryland utilities to collect deposits or to terminate service for non-payment. The MDPSC is continuing to collect data on payment plan and related issues and has adopted regulations that expand the summer and winter “severe weather” termination moratoria when temperatures are very high or very low, fromoneday, as provided by statute, tothreedays on each occurrence.

The Maryland legislature passed a bill on April 11, 2011, which requires the MDPSC to promulgate rules by July 1, 2012 that address service interruptions, downed wire response, customer communication, vegetation management, equipment inspection, and annual reporting. In crafting the regulations, the legislation directs the MDPSC to consider cost-effectiveness, and provides that the MDPSC may adopt different standards for different utilities based on such factors as system design and existing infrastructure, geography, and customer density. Beginning in July 2013, the MDPSC is required to assess each utility's compliance with the new rules, and may assess penalties of up to



$25,000



per day per violation. The MDPSC convened a working group of utilities, regulators, and other interested stakeholders to address the topics of the proposed rules. A draft of the rules was filed, along with the report of the working group, on October 27, 2011.

Hearings to consider the rules and comments occurred over four days between December 8 and 15, 2011, after which revised rules were sent for legislative review. The proposed rules were published in the Maryland Register on February 24, 2012, and a deadline of March 26, 2012, was set for the filing of further comments. A further hearing is required before the rules could become final. Separately, on July 7, 2011, the MDPSC adopted draft rules requiring monitoring and inspections for contact voltage. The draft rules were published in September, 2011. After a further hearing in October, 2011, the final rules were re-published and became effective on November 28, 2011.





New Jersey Regulatory Matters



On September 8, 2011, the Division of Rate Counsel filed a Petition with the NJBPU asserting that it has reason to believe that JCP&L is earning an unreasonable return on its New Jersey jurisdictional rate base. The Division of Rate Counsel requests that the NJBPU order JCP&L to file a base rate case petition so that the NJBPU may determine whether JCP&L's current rates for electric service are just and reasonable. JCP&L filed an answer to the Petition on September 28, 2011, stating, inter alia, that the Division of Rate Counsel analysis upon which it premises its Petition contains errors and inaccuracies, that JCP&L's achieved return on equity is currently within a reasonable range, and that there is no reason for the NJBPU to require JCP&L to file a base rate case at this time.On November 30, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that the matter be assigned to the NJBPU President to act as presiding officer to set and modify the schedule for this matter as appropriate, decide upon motions, and otherwise control the conduct of this case, without the need for full Board approval. The matter is pending and a schedule for further proceedings has not yet been established.

On September 22, 2011, the NJBPU ordered that JCP&L hire a Special Reliability Master, subject to NJBPU approval, to evaluate










JCP&L's design, operating, maintenance and performance standards as they pertain to the Morristown, New Jersey underground electric distribution system, and make recommendations to JCP&L and the NJBPU on the appropriate courses of action necessary to ensure adequate reliability and safety in the Morristown underground network.On October 12, 2011, the Special Reliability Master was selected and on January 31, 2012, the project report was submitted to the Company and NJBPU Staff. On February 10, 2012, the NJBPU accepted the report and directed the Staff to present recommendations on March 12, 2012, on actions required by JCP&L to ensure the safe, reliable operation of the Morristown network.

Pursuant to a formal Notice issued by the NJBPU on September 14, 2011, public hearings were held on September 26 and 27, 2011, to solicit public comments regarding the state of preparedness and responsiveness of the local electric distribution companies prior to, during and after Hurricane Irene. By subsequent Notice issued September 28, 2011, additional hearings were held in October 2011. Additionally, the NJBPU accepted written comments through October 31, 2011 related to this inquiry.On December 4, 2011, the NJBPU Division of Reliability and Security issued a Request for Qualifications soliciting bid proposals from qualified consulting firms to provide expertise in the review and evaluation of New Jersey's electric distribution companies' preparation and restoration to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. Responsive bids were submitted on January 20, 2012, and the report of selected bidder is to be submitted to the NJPBU 120 days from the date the contract is awarded. On December 14, 2011, the NJBPU Staff filed a report of its preliminary findings and recommendations with respect to the electric utility companies' planning and response to Hurricane Irene and the October 2011 snowstorm. The NJBPU has not indicated what additional action, if any, may be taken as a result of information obtained through this process.



Ohio Regulatory Matters

The Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2014. The material terms of the ESP include: generation supplied through a CBP commencing June 1, 2011; a load cap of no less than80%, which also applies to tranches assigned post-auction; a6%generation discount to certain low income customers provided by the Ohio Companies through a bilateral wholesale contract with FES (FES is one of the wholesale suppliers to the Ohio Companies); no increase in base distribution rates through May 31, 2014; and a new distribution rider, Rider DCR, to recover a return of, and on, capital investments in the delivery system. The Ohio Companies also agreed not to recover from retail customers certain costs related to transmission cost allocations by PJM as a result of ATSI's integration into PJM for the longer of the five-year period from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2015 or when the amount of costs avoided by customers for certain types of products totals$360 milliondependent on the outcome of certain PJM proceedings, agreed to establish a$12 millionfund to assist low income customers over the term of the ESP and agreed to additional matters related to energy efficiency and alternative energy requirements.



Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately166,000MWH in 2009,290,000MWH in 2010,410,000MWH in 2011,470,000MWH in 2012 and530,000MWH in 2013, with additional savings required through 2025. Utilities were also required to reduce peak demand in 2009 by1%, with an additional0.75%reduction each year thereafter through 2018.



In December 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required



three



year portfolio plan seeking approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand reduction requirements for the 2010-2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers in 2012. The PUCO issued an Opinion and Order generally approving the Ohio Companies'



three



On October 7, 2011, the Ohio Companies, the Industrial Energy Users - Ohio, and the Ohio Energy Group filed applications for rehearing, arguing that the PUCO'S new standard is unlawful. The Ohio Companies also asked the PUCO to withdraw its amendment of CEI's and TE's 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks. The PUCO did not rule on the Applications for Rehearing within thirty days, thus denying them by operation of law. On December 30, 2011, the Ohio Companies filed a notice of appeal with the Supreme Court of Ohio, challenging the PUCO's new standard. No procedural schedule has been established.














Additionally, under SB221, electric utilities and electric service companies are required to serve part of their load in 2011 from renewable energy resources equivalent to



1.00%



of the average of the KWH they served in 2008-2010; in 2012 from renewable energy resources equivalent to



1.50%



of the average of the KWH they served in 2009-2011; and in 2013 from renewable energy resources equivalent to



2.00%



of the average of the KWH they served in 2010-2012. In August and October 2009, the Ohio Companies conducted RFPs to secure RECs. The RECs acquired through these



two





one



party has filed a request that the PUCO audit the cost of the Ohio Companies' compliance with the alternative energy requirements and the Ohio Companies' compliance with Ohio law. The PUCO selected auditors to perform a financial and a management audit, and final audit reports are to be filed with the PUCO by May 15, 2012. In August 2011, the Ohio Companies conducted two RFP processes to obtain RECs to meet the statutory benchmarks for 2011 and beyond.





Pennsylvania Regulatory Matters



$254 million



in marginal transmission losses and associated carrying charges for the period prior to January 1, 2011, are not recoverable under Met-Ed's and Penelec's TSC riders. Met-Ed and Penelec filed a Petition for Allowance of Appeal with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and also a complaint seeking relief in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, which was subsequently amended. The PPUC filed a Motion to Dismiss Met-Ed's and Penelec's Amended Complaint on September 15, 2011. Met-Ed and Penelec filed a Responsive brief in Opposition to the PPUC's Motion to Dismiss on October 11, 2011. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, Met-Ed and Penelec believe that they should ultimately prevail through the judicial process and therefore expect to fully recover the approximately



$254 million



(

$189 million



for Met-Ed and



$65 million



for Penelec) in marginal transmission losses for the period prior to January 1, 2011.





In each of May 2008, 2009 and 2010, the PPUC approved Met-Ed's and Penelec's annual updates to their TSC rider for the annual periods between June 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The PPUC's approval in May 2010 authorized an increase to the TSC for Met-Ed's customers to provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010.



In February 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its DSP for the period June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. In July 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUC's Order approving the Joint Petition held that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one-time PJM integration costs (resulting from Penn's June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and PJM integration costs.



Pennsylvania adopted Act 129 in 2008 to address issues such as: energy efficiency and peak load reduction; generation procurement; time-of-use rates; smart meters; and alternative energy. Among other things, Act 129 required utilities to file with the PPUC an energy efficiency and peak load reduction plan, (EE&C Plan), by July 1, 2009, setting forth the utilities' plans to reduce energy consumption by a minimum of1%and3%by May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2013, respectively, and to reduce peak demand by a










minimum of4.5%by May 31, 2013. Act 129 provides for potentially significant financial penalties to be assessed upon utilities that fail to achieve the required reductions in consumption and peak demand. Act 129 also required utilities to file a SMIP with the PPUC.



The PPUC entered an Order in February 2010 giving final approval to all aspects of the EE&C Plans of Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn and the tariff rider became effective March 1, 2010. On February 18, 2011, the companies filed a petition to approve their First Amended EE&C Plans. On June 28, 2011, a hearing on the petition was held before an ALJ.On December 15, 2011, the ALJ recommended that the amended plans be approved as proposed, and on January 12, 2012, the Commission approved the plans.

WP filed its original EE&C Plan in June 2009, which the PPUC approved, in large part, by Opinion and Order entered in October 2009. In September 2010, WP filed an amended EE&C Plan that is less reliant on smart meter deployment, which the PPUC approved in January 2011.

On August 9, 2011, WP filed a petition to approve its Second Amended EE&C Plan. The proposed Second Revised Plan includes measures and a new program and implementation strategies consistent with the successful EE&C programs of Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn that are designed to enable WP to achieve the post-2011 Act 129 EE&C requirements.On January 6, 2012, a Joint Petition for Settlement of all issues was filed by the parties to the proceeding.



The Pennsylvania Companies submitted a preliminary report on July 15, 2011, and a final report on November 15, 2011, in which they reported on their compliance with statutory May 31, 2011, energy efficiency benchmarks.Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn achieved the 2011 benchmarks; however WP has been unable to provide final results because several customers are still accumulating necessary documentation for projects that may qualify for inclusion in the final results. Preliminary numbers indicate that WP did not achieve its 2011 benchmark and it is not known at this time whether WP will be subject to a fine for failure to achieve the benchmark. WP is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate any possible loss or range of loss.



In December 2009, WP filed a motion to reopen the evidentiary record to submit an alternative smart meter plan proposing, among other things, a less-rapid deployment of smart meters.



In light of the significant expenditures that would be associated with its smart meter deployment plans and related infrastructure upgrades, as well as its evaluation of recent PPUC decisions approving less-rapid deployment proposals by other utilities, WP re-evaluated its Act 129 compliance strategy, including both its plans with respect to smart meter deployment and certain smart meter dependent aspects of the EE&C Plan. In October 2010, WP and Pennsylvania's OCA filed a Joint Petition for Settlement addressing WP's smart meter implementation plan with the PPUC. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP proposed to decelerate its previously contemplated smart meter deployment schedule and to target the installation of approximately



25,000



smart meters in support of its EE&C Plan, based on customer requests, by mid-2012. The proposed settlement also contemplates that WP take advantage of the




-month grace period authorized by the PPUC to continue WP's efforts to re-evaluate full-scale smart meter deployment plans. WP currently anticipates filing its plan for full-scale deployment of smart meters in June 2012. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, WP would be permitted to recover certain previously incurred and anticipated smart-meter related expenditures through a levelized customer surcharge, with certain expenditures amortized over a ten-year period. Additionally, WP would be permitted to seek recovery of certain other costs as part of its revised SMIP that it currently intends to file in June 2012, or in a future base distribution rate case.



Following additional proceedings, on March 9, 2011, WP submitted an Amended Joint Petition for Settlement which restates the Joint Petition for Settlement filed in October 2010, adds the PPUC's Office of Trial Staff as a signatory party, and confirms the support or non-opposition of all parties to the settlement.Oneparty retained the ability to challenge the recovery of amounts spent on WP's original smart meter implementation plan. A Joint Stipulation with the OSBA was also filed on March 9, 2011. The PPUC approved the Amended Joint Petition for Full Settlement by order entered June 30, 2011.



By Tentative Order entered in September 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional30-daycomment period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met-Ed and Penelec were going to implement direct access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met-Ed and Penelec to apply over-collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non-NUG stranded costs when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various parties filed comments objecting to the accounting method utilized by Met-Ed and Penelec.On January 30, 2012, the Commission entered a final order approving Met-Ed's and Penelec's accounting methodology whereby NUG over-collection revenue may be used to reduce non-NUG stranded costs, even if a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists.



In the PPUC Order approving the FirstEnergy and Allegheny merger, the PPUC announced that a separate statewide investigation into Pennsylvania's retail electricity market will be conducted with the goal of making recommendations for improvements to ensure that a properly functioning and workable competitive retail electricity market exists in the state. On April 29, 2011, the PPUC entered an Order initiating the investigation and requesting comments from interested parties on eleven directed questions concerning retail markets in Pennsylvania. Met-Ed, Penelec, Penn Power and WP submitted joint comments on June 3, 2011. FES also submitted comments on June 3, 2011. On June 8, 2011, the PPUC conducted an en banc hearing on these issues at which both the Pennsylvania Companies and FES participated and offered testimony.A technical conference was held on August 10, 2011, and a second en banc was held on November 10, 2011, to discuss intermediate steps that can be taken to promote the development of a competitive market. Teleconferences are scheduled through March 2012, with another en banc hearing to be held on March 21, 2012, to explore the future of default service in Pennsylvania following the expiration of the upcoming default service plans on May 31, 2015. Following










the issuance of a Tentative Order and comments filed by numerous parties, the Commission entered a final order on December 16, 2011, providing recommendations for components to be included in upcoming default service plans. An intermediate work plan was also presented on December 16, 2011, by Tentative Order, on which initial comments were submitted by Met-Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP on January 17, 2012. FES also submitted comments. Reply comments were submitted on February 1, 2012. It is expected that a final order implementing the intermediate work plan and a long range plan will be presented by the PPUC, both in March 2012.



The PPUC issued a Proposed Rulemaking Order on August 25, 2011, which proposed a number of substantial modifications to the current Code of Conduct regulations that were promulgated to provide competitive safeguards to the competitive retail electric market in Pennsylvania. The proposed changes include, but are not limited to: an EGS may not have the same or substantially similar name as the EDC or its corporate parent; EDCs and EGSs would not be permitted to share office space and would need to occupy different buildings; EDCs and affiliated EGSs could not share employees or services, except certain corporate support, emergency, or tariff services (the definition of "corporate support services" excludes items such as information systems, electronic data interchange, strategic management and planning, regulatory services, legal services, or commodities that have been included in regulated rates at less than market value); and an EGS must enter into a trademark agreement with the EDC before using its trademark or service mark. The Proposed Rulemaking Order, which was published on February 11, 2012, calls for comments to be submitted by March 27, 2012. If implemented these rules could require a significant change in the way FES, Met-Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP do business in Pennsylvania, and could possibly have an adverse impact on their results of operations and financial condition.



In November 2011, Met-Ed, Penelec, Penn and WP filed a Joint Petition for Approval of their Default Service Plan for the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The Pennsylvania Companies' direct case was submitted in its entirety on December 20, 2011. Evidentiary hearings are scheduled for April 11-13, 2012, and a final order must be entered by the PPUC by August 17, 2012.



West Virginia Regulatory Matters

In 2009, the West Virginia Legislature enacted the AREPA, which generally requires that a specified minimum percentage of electricity sold to retail customers in West Virginia by electric utilities each year be derived from alternative and renewable energy resources according to a predetermined schedule of increasing percentage targets, including10%by 2015,15%by 2020, and25%by 2025. In November 2010, the WVPSC issued RPS Rules, which became effective on January 4, 2011. Under the RPS Rules, on or before January 1, 2011, each electric utility subject to the provisions of this rule was required to prepare an alternative and renewable energy portfolio standard compliance plan and file an application with the WVPSC seeking approval of such plan. MP and PE filed their combined compliance plan in December 2010. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on June 13, 2011. An order was issued by the WVPSC in September 2011, which conditionally approved MP's and PE's compliance plan, contingent on the outcome of the resource credits case discussed below.



Additionally, in January 2011, MP and PE filed an application with the WVPSC seeking to certify three facilities as Qualified Energy Resource Facilities. The application was approved and the three facilities are capable of generating renewable credits which will assist the companies in meeting their combined requirements under the AREPA. An annual update filing is due on March 31, 2012. Further, in February 2011, MP and PE filed a petition with the WVPSC seeking an Order declaring that MP is entitled to all alternative and renewable energy resource credits associated with the electric energy, or energy and capacity, that MP is required to purchase pursuant to electric energy purchase agreements between MP and three non-utility electric generating facilities in West Virginia. The City of New Martinsville and Morgantown Energy Associates, each the owner of one of the contracted resources, has participated in the case in opposition to the Petition. A hearing was held at the WVPSC on August 25 and 26, 2011.On November 22, 2011, the WVPSC issued an order granting ownership of all RECs produced by the facilities to MP. On December 22, 2011, the WVPSC order was appealed, and the order was stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. MP's brief was filed on February 13, 2012. Should MP be unsuccessful in the appeal, it will have to procure the requisite RECs to comply with AREPA from other sources. MP expects to recover such costs from customers.



In September 2011, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC to recover costs associated with fuel and purchased power (the ENEC) in the amount of$32 millionwhich represents an approximate3%overall increase in such costs over the past two years, primarily attributable to rising coal prices. The requested increase was partially offset by$2.5 millionof synergy savings directly resulting from the merger of FirstEnergy and AE, which closed in February 2011. Under a cost recovery clause established by the WVPSC in 2007, MP and PE customer bills are adjusted periodically to reflect upward or downward changes in the cost of fuel and purchased power. The utilities' most recent request to recover costs for fuel and purchased power was in September 2009.MP and PE entered into a Settlement Agreement related to this matter. The WVPSC issued an order on December 30, 2011, approving the settlement agreement. The approved settlement resulted in an increase of$19.6 million, instead of the requested$32 million, with additional costs to be recovered over time with a carrying charge.



FERC Matters



PJM Transmission Rate



In April 2007, FERC issued Opinion 494 finding that the PJM transmission owners' existing “license plate” or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at500kV or higher are










to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by means of a postage-stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at less than500kV, however, are to be allocated on a load flow methodology, which is generally referred to as a “beneficiary pays” approach to allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities.



FERC's Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which issued a decision in August 2009. The court affirmed FERC's ratemaking treatment for existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate costs for new500kV and higher voltage facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded the rate design issue to FERC.



In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for a “paper hearing” and requested parties to submit written comments pursuant to the schedule described in the order. FERC identifiednineseparate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJM's filing demonstrated that allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results in certain load serving entities in PJM bearing the majority of the costs. Numerous parties filed responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Other utilities and state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a load ratio share basis. This matter is awaiting action by FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.



RTO Realignment



On June 1, 2011, ATSI and the ATSI zone entered into PJM. The move was performed as planned with no known operational or reliability issues for ATSI or for the wholesale transmission customers in the ATSI zone.



On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its transmission rate into PJM's tariffs. On April 1, 2011, the MISO TOs (including ATSI) filed proposed tariff language that describes the mechanics of collecting and administering MTEP costs from ATSI-zone ratepayers. From March 20, 2011 through April 1, 2011, FirstEnergy, PJM and the MISO submitted numerous filings for the purpose of effecting movement of the ATSI zone to PJM on June 1, 2011. These filings include amendments to the MISO's tariffs (to remove the ATSI zone), submission of load and generation interconnection agreements to reflect the move into PJM, and submission of changes to PJM's tariffs to support the move into PJM.







From late April 2011 through June 2011, FERC issued other orders that address ATSI's move into PJM. Also, ATSI and the MISO were able to negotiate an agreement of ATSI's responsibility for certain charges associated with long term firm transmission rights that, according to the MISO, were payable by the ATSI zone upon its departure from the MISO. ATSI did not and does not agree that these costs should be charged to ATSI but, in order to settle the case and all claims associated with the case, ATSI agreed to a one-time payment of$1.8 millionto the MISO. This settlement agreement has been submitted for FERC's review and approval. The final outcome of those proceedings that address the remaining open issues related to ATSI's move into PJM and their impact, if any, on FirstEnergy cannot be predicted at this time.



MISO Multi-Value Project Rule Proposal



In July 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission projects--described as MVPs - are a class of transmission projects that are approved via the MTEP. The filing parties proposed to allocate the costs of MVPs by means of a usage-based charge that will be applied to all loads within the MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be “wheeled through” the MISO as well as to energy transactions that “source” in the MISO but “sink” outside of MISO. The filing parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers










in the east. The filing parties requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISO's Board approved the first MVP project -- the “Michigan Thumb Project.” Under MISO's proposal, the costs of MVP projects approved by MISO's Board prior to the June 1, 2011 effective date of FirstEnergy's integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated that approximately$15 millionin annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion.



In September 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISO's proposal to allocate costs of MVPs projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the “beneficiary pays” approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress that had been made to date in the ATSI integration into PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI. Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISO's MVP proposal.



In December 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change. Despite being presented with the issue by FirstEnergy and the MISO, the FERC did not address clearly the question of whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISO's tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attached prior to ATSI's exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERC's order and would be addressed in future proceedings.



On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy requested rehearing of FERC's order. In its rehearing request, FirstEnergy argued that because the MVP rate is usage-based, costs could not be applied to ATSI, which is a stand-alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the ATSI zone or to ATSI.On October 21, 2011, FERC issued its order on rehearing, but that order did not address FirstEnergy's argument directly. FERC ruled instead that if ATSI was subject to MVP charges then ATSI owed these charges upon exit of the MISO. On October 31, 2011, FESC filed a Petition of Review for the FERC's December 2010 order and October 21, 2011 order on rehearing of that order with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Other parties also filed appeals of those orders and, in November, 2011, the cases were consolidated for briefing and disposition in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On January 27, 2012, the court ordered the FERC to file a proposed briefing format and schedule on or before March 20, 2012.



On August 3, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a complaint with FERC based on the FERC's December 2010 order. In the complaint, FirstEnergy argued that ATSI perfected the legal and financial requirements necessary to exit MISO before any MVP responsibilities could attach and asked FERC to rule that MISO cannot charge ATSI for MVP costs. On September 2, 2011, MISO, its TOs and other parties, filed responsive pleadings. On September 19, 2011, ATSI filed an answer. On December 29, 2011, the MISO and the MISO TOs filed a new “Schedule 39” to the MISO's tariff. Schedule 39 purports to establish a process whereby the MISO would bill TOs for MVP costs that, according to the MISO, attached to the utility prior to such TOs withdrawal from the MISO. On January 19, 2012, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MISO's new Schedule 39 tariff.



On February 27, 2012, FERC issued an order (February 2012 Order) dismissing ATSI's August 3, 2011 complaint. In the February 2012 Order, FERC accepted the MISO's Schedule 39 tariff, subject to hearings and potential refund of MVP charges to ATSI. The basis for any subsequent hearing is whether the Schedule 39 tariff was in effect at the time that ATSI exited the MISO. FirstEnergy is evaluating the February 2012 Order and will determine the next steps.



FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.



FirstEnergy Companies' PJM FTR Contract Underfunding Complaint



On December 28, 2011, FES and AE Supply filed a complaint with FERC against PJM challenging the ongoing underfunding of FTR contracts, which exist to hedge against transmission congestion in the day-ahead markets. The underfunding is a result of PJM's practice of using the funds that are intended to pay the holders of FTR contracts to pay instead for congestion costs that occur in the real time markets. Underfunding of the FTR contracts resulted in losses of approximately$35 millionto FES and AE Supply in the 2010-2011 Delivery Year. To date, losses for the 2011-2012 Delivery Year are estimated to be approximately$6 million.



On January 13, 2012, PJM filed comments that describe changes to the PJM tariff that, if adopted, should remedy the underfunding issue. Many parties also filed comments supporting FES' and AE Supply's position. Other parties, generally representatives of end-use customers who will have to pay the charges, filed in opposition to the complaint. The matter is currently pending before FERC. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

California Claims Matters



In October 2006, several California governmental and utility parties presented AE Supply with a settlement proposal to resolve alleged overcharges for power sales by AE Supply to the California Energy Resource Scheduling division of the CDWR during 2001. The settlement proposal claims that CDWR is owed approximately$190 millionfor these alleged overcharges. This proposal was made in the context of mediation efforts by FERC and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in pending proceedings to resolve all outstanding refund and other claims, including claims of alleged price manipulation in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The Ninth Circuit has since remandedoneof those proceedings to FERC, which arises out of claims previously filed with FERC by the California Attorney General on behalf of certain California parties against various sellers










in the California wholesale power market, including AE Supply (the Lockyer case). AE Supply and several other sellers filed motions to dismiss the Lockyer case. In March 2010, the judge assigned to the case entered an opinion that granted the motions to dismiss filed by AE Supply and other sellers and dismissed the claims of the California Parties. On May 4, 2011, FERC affirmed the judge's ruling. On June 3, 2011, the California parties requested rehearing of the May 4, 2011 order. The request for rehearing remains pending.



In June 2009, the California Attorney General, on behalf of certain California parties, filed a second complaint with FERC against various sellers, including AE Supply (the Brown case), again seeking refunds for trades in the California energy markets during 2000 and 2001. The above-noted trades with CDWR are the basis for including AE Supply in this new complaint. AE Supply filed a motion to dismiss the Brown complaint that was granted by FERC on May 24, 2011. On June 23, 2011, the California Attorney General requested rehearing of the May 24, 2011 order. That request for rehearing also remains pending. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of either of the above matters or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.



PATH Transmission Project



The PATH Project is comprised of a765kV transmission line that was proposed to extend from West Virginia through Virginia and into Maryland, modifications to an existing substation in Putnam County, West Virginia, and the construction of new substations in Hardy County, West Virginia and Frederick County, Maryland.







PATH submitted a filing to FERC to implement a formula rate tariff effective March 1, 2008. In a November 19, 2010 order addressing various matters relating to the formula rate, FERC set the project's base ROE for hearing and reaffirmed its prior authorization of a return on CWIP, recovery of start-up costs and recovery of abandonment costs. In the order, FERC also granted a



1.5%



ROE incentive adder and a



0.5%



ROE adder for RTO participation. These adders will be applied to the base ROE determined as a result of the hearing. The PATH Companies, Joint Intervenors, Joint Consumer Advocates and FERC staff have agreed to a four year moratorium. A settlement was reached, which reflects a base ROE of



10.4%



(plus authorized adders) effective January 1, 2011. Accordingly, the revised ROE was reflected in a revised Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement for 2011 with true-up occurring in 2013. The FirstEnergy portion of the refund for March 1, 2008, through December 31, 2010, is approximately



$2 million



(inclusive of interest). The refund amount was computed using a base ROE of



10.8%



plus authorized adders. On October 7, 2011, PATH and six intervenors submitted to FERC an unopposed settlement agreement. Contemporaneous with this submission, PATH and the six intervenors filed with the Chief ALJ of FERC a joint motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund on an interim basis pending issuance of a FERC order acting on the settlement agreement. On October 12, 2011, the motion for interim approval and authorization to implement the refund was granted by the Chief ALJ. On February 16, 2012, FERC approved the settlement agreement and dismissed as moot, in light of its approval of the settlement, PATH's pending request for rehearing of the November 19, 2010 order.





Capital Requirements

Our capital spending for 2012 is expected to be approximately$2.1 billion(excluding nuclear fuel).For 2013, we anticipate baseline capital expenditures of approximately $2.0 billion, which exclude any potential additional strategic opportunities, future mandated spending, energy efficiency or environmental spending relating to MATS. Planned capital initiatives are intended to promote reliability, improve operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives.Our capital investments for additional nuclear fuel are expected to be $280 million and $219 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively.

Anticipated capital expenditures for 2012, excluding nuclear fuel, are shown in the following table. Such costs include expenditures for the betterment of existing facilities and for the construction of transmission lines, distribution lines and substations, and other assets.










2011ActualCapitalExpendituresForecast 2012(In millions)OE$178$167Penn3021CEI120110TE4739JCP&L327206Met-Ed138105Penelec159136MP164142PE9689WP153128ATSI11384TrAIL8220FGCO198131NGC409452AE Supply141144Other subsidiaries128116Total$2,483$2,090

During the 2012-2016 period, maturities of, and sinking fund requirements for long-term debt are:

20122013-2016Total(In millions)FE$—$150$150FES2701,7582,028OE—400400Penn145CEI22381403JCP&L34458492Met-Ed—429429Penelec—195195Other(1)6371,6312,268Total$964$5,406$6,370

(1)Includes debt of AE and its subsidiaries and the elimination of certain intercompany debt.

The following tables display consolidated operating lease commitments as of December 31, 2011.

FirstEnergyOperating LeasesLease PaymentsCapital Trust(1)Net(In millions)2012$383$125$25820133821302522014371131240201537390283201634429315Years thereafter1,80341,799Total minimum lease payments$3,656$509$3,147

(1)PNBV and Shippingport purchased a portion of the lease obligation bonds associated with certain sale and leaseback transactions. These arrangements effectively reduce lease costs related to those transactions.












Operating LeasesFESOE(1)CEITE(1)JCP&LMet-EdPenelec(In millions)2012$237$147$4$64$7$4$32013241146364743201423614536463220152391452645422016230117364532Years thereafter1,66249414483712Total minimum lease payments$2,845$749$19$334$78$55$24

(1)Includes certain minimum lease payments associated with NGC's lessor equity interests in Perry and Beaver Valley Unit 2 that are eliminated in consolidation(see Note 6, Leases, of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergy’s business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2012 and beyond, FirstEnergy expects to rely on external sources of funds. Short-term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short-term borrowings. Long-term cash needs may be met through issuances of debt and/or equity securities. FirstEnergy expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage working capital requirements along with continued access to long-term capital markets.

FirstEnergy hadno significant short-term debt outstanding as ofDecember 31, 2011. Total short-term bank lines of committed credit to FirstEnergy totaled$5.0 billion. FirstEnergy’s available liquidity as of January 31, 2012, was as follows:

CompanyTypeMaturityCommitmentAvailable Liquidity(In millions)FirstEnergy(1)RevolvingJune 2016$2,000$1,395FES / AE SupplyRevolvingJune 20162,5002,498TrAILRevolvingJan. 2013450450AGCRevolvingDec. 201350—Subtotal$5,000$4,343Cash—49Total$5,000$4,392

(1)FE and the Utilities

FirstEnergy and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two five-year syndicated revolving credit facilities with aggregate commitments of$4.5 billion(Facilities).

An aggregate amount of$2 billionis available to be borrowed under a syndicated revolving credit facility (FirstEnergy Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower. The borrowers under the FirstEnergy Facility are FE, OE, Penn, CEI, TE, Met-Ed, ATSI, JCP&L, MP, Penelec, PE and WP. An additional$2.5 billionis available to be borrowed by FES and AE Supply under a separate syndicated revolving credit facility (FES/AE Supply Facility), subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower.

Commitments under each of the Facilities will be available until June 17, 2016, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the applicable borrowers, to up to two additional one-year extensions. Generally, borrowings under each of the Facilities are available to each borrower separately and mature on the earlier of364days from the date of borrowing or the commitment termination date, as the same may be extended.

Borrowings under each of the Facilities are subject to the usual and customary provisions for acceleration upon the occurrence of events of default, including a cross-default for other indebtedness in excess of$100 million, as described further in Note 12, Capitalization.

FirstEnergy also has established$500 millionof revolving credit facilities that are available to TrAIL ($450 million) and AGC($50 million) until January 2013 and December 2013, respectively.

FE’s primary source of cash for continuing operations as a holding company is cash from the operations of its subsidiaries.During 2011, FirstEnergy received $1.8 billion of cash dividends from its subsidiaries and paid$881 millionin cash dividends to common shareholders, including $20 million paid in March by AE to its former shareholders.










As of



December 31, 2011

, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue approximately



$2.7 billion



of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise permitted by a specified exception of up to



$232 million



and



$20 million

, respectively. As a result of the indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met-Ed and Penelec had the capability to issue secured debt of approximately



$376 million



and



$382 million

, respectively, under provisions of their senior note indentures as of



December 31, 2011

. In addition, based upon their respective FMB indentures, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of



December 31, 2011

, MP, PE and WP had the capability to issue approximately



$1.1 billion



of additional FMBs in the aggregate. These companies may be further limited by the financial covenants of the Facilities and subject to current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and/or charter limitations.



Based upon FGCO’s net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indentures as ofDecember 31, 2011,FGCO had the capability to issue$2.1 billionof additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture. Based upon NGC’s net earnings and available bondable property additions under its FMB indenture as ofDecember 31, 2011, NGC had the capability to issue$2.0 billionof additional FMBs under the terms of that indenture.

To the extent that coverage requirements or market conditions restrict the subsidiaries’ abilities to issue desired amounts of FMBs or preferred stock, they may seek other methods of financing. Such financings could include the sale of preferred and/or preference stock or of such other types of securities as might be authorized by applicable regulatory authorities which would not otherwise be sold. These financings could result in annual interest charges and/or dividend requirements in excess of those that would otherwise be incurred.



Nuclear Operating Licenses

In August 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis-Besse operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. By an order dated April 26, 2011, a NRC ASLB granted a hearing on the Davis-Besse license renewal application to a group of petitioners. By this order, the ASLB also admitted two contentions challenging whether FENOC's Environmental Report adequately evaluated (1) a combination of renewable energy sources as alternatives to the renewal of Davis-Besse's operating license, and (2) severe accident mitigation alternatives at Davis-Besse. On May 6, 2011, FENOC filed an appeal with the NRC from the order granting a hearing on the Davis-Besse license renewal application.On January 10, 2012, intervenors petitioned the ASLB for a new contention on the cracking of the Davis-Besse shield building discussed below.

The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for FES' nuclear facilities in service.

StationIn-Service DateCurrent License ExpirationBeaver Valley Unit 119762036Beaver Valley Unit 219872047Perry19862026Davis-Besse19772017



Nuclear Regulation

Under NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission its nuclear facilities. As ofDecember 31, 2011, FirstEnergy had approximately$2 billioninvested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI-2. As required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergy's NDT fluctuate based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergy's obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and their effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the NDT. On March 28, 2011, FENOC submitted its biennial report on nuclear decommissioning funding to the NRC. This submittal identified a total shortfall in nuclear decommissioning funding for Beaver Valley Unit 1 and Perry of approximately$92.5 million.By letter dated December 29, 2011, FENOC informed the NRC staff that it had increased the parental guarantee to$95 million.

In January 2004, subsidiaries of FirstEnergy filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking damages in connection with costs incurred at the Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry nuclear facilities as a result of the DOE's failure to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998. DOE was required to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (42 USC 10101 et seq) and the contracts entered into by the DOE and the owners and operators of these facilities pursuant to the Act.In January 2012, the applicable FirstEnergy affiliates reached a$48 millionsettlement of these claims.

On October 1, 2011, Davis-Besse was safely shut down for a scheduled outage to install a new reactor vessel head and complete other maintenance activities. The new reactor head, which replaced a head installed in 2002, enhances safety and reliability, and features control rod nozzles made of material less susceptible to cracking. On October 10, 2011, following opening of the building










for installation of the new reactor head, a sub-surface hairline crack was identified in one of the exterior architectural elements on the shield building. These elements serve as architectural features and do not have structural significance. During investigation of the crack at the shield building opening, concrete samples and electronic testing found similar sub-surface hairline cracks in most of the building's architectural elements. FENOC's investigation also identified other indications. Included among them were sub-surface hairline cracks in the upper portion of the shield building (above elevation 780') and in the vicinity of the main steam line penetrations.A team of industry-recognized structural concrete experts and Davis-Besse engineers has determined these conditions do not affect the facility's structural integrity or safety.

On December 2, 2011, the NRC issued a CAL which concluded that FENOC provided "reasonable assurance that the shield building remains capable of performing its safety functions." The CAL imposed a number of commitments from FENOC including, submitting a root cause evaluation and corrective actions to the NRC by February 28, 2012, and further evaluations of the shield building. On February 27, 2012, FENOC sent the root cause evaluation to the NRC. Finally, the CAL also stated that the NRC was still evaluating whether the current condition of the shield building conforms to the plant's licensing basis. On December 6, 2011, the Davis-Besse plant returned to service.

By letter dated August 25, 2011, the NRC made a final significance determination (white) associated with a violation that occurred during the retraction of a source range monitor from the Perry reactor vessel. The NRC also placed Perry in the degraded cornerstone column (Column 3) of the NRC's Action Matrix governing the oversight of commercial nuclear reactors. As a result, the NRC staff will conduct several supplemental inspections, culminating in an inspection using Inspection Procedure 95002 to determine if the root cause and contributing causes of risk significant performance issues are understood, the extent of condition has been identified, whether safety culture contributed to the performance issues, and if FENOC's corrective actions are sufficient to address the causes and prevent recurrence.

In light of the impacts of the earthquake and tsunami on the reactors in Fukushima, Japan, the NRC conducted inspections of emergency equipment at U.S. reactors. The NRC also established a Near-Term Task Force to review its processes and regulations in light of the incident, and, on July 12, 2011, the Task Force issued its report of recommendations for regulatory changes. On October 18, 2011, the NRC approved the Staff recommendations, and directed the Staff to implement its near-term recommendations without delay. Ultimately, the adoption of the Staff recommendations on near-term actions is likely to result in additional costs to implement plant modifications and upgrades required by the regulatory process over the next several years, which costs are likely to be material.



On February 16, 2012, the NRC issued a request for information to the licensed operators of 11 nuclear power plants, including Beaver Valley Power Station Units 1 and 2, with respect to the modeling of fuel performance as it relates to "thermal conductivity degradation," which is the potential in older fuel for reduced capacity to transfer heat that could potentially change its performance during various accident scenarios, including loss of coolant accidents. The request for information indicated that this phenomenon has not been accounted for adequately in performance models for the fuel developed by the fuel manufacturer. The NRC is requesting that FENOC provide an analysis to demonstrate that the NRC regulations are being met. Absent that demonstration, the request indicates that the NRC may consider imposing restrictions on reactor operating limits until the issue is satisfactorily resolved.



Nuclear Insurance

The Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to$12.6 billion(assuming104units licensed to operate) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to$375 million; and (ii)$12.2 billionprovided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by the NRC pursuant thereto. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to$118 million(but not more than$18 millionper unit per year in the event of more than one incident) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based on their present nuclear ownership and leasehold interests, FirstEnergy’s maximum potential assessment under these provisions would be$470 million(OE-$40 million, NGC-$408 million, and TE-$22 million) per incident but not more than$70 million(OE-$6 million, NGC-$61 million, and TE-$3 million) in any one year for each incident.

In addition to the public liability insurance provided pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act, FirstEnergy has also obtained insurance coverage in limited amounts for economic loss and property damage arising out of nuclear incidents. FirstEnergy is a member of NEIL, which provides coverage (NEIL I) for the extra expense of replacement power incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of nuclear units. Under NEIL I, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries have policies, renewable yearly, corresponding to their respective nuclear interests, which provide an aggregate indemnity of up to approximately$2.0 billion(OE-$168 million, NGC-$1.7 billion, TE-$90 million) for replacement power costs incurred during an outage after an initial 26-week waiting period. Members of NEIL I pay annual premiums and are subject to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer. FirstEnergy’s present maximum aggregate assessment for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year would be approximately$13 million(OE-$1 million, NGC-$12 million, and TE-less than$1 million).

FirstEnergy is insured as to its respective nuclear interests under property damage insurance provided by NEIL to the operating company for each plant. Under these arrangements, up to$2.8 billionof coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, debris removal and repair and/or replacement of property is provided. FirstEnergy pays annual premiums for this coverage and is liable for retrospective assessments of up to approximately$66 million(OE-$6 million, NGC-$57 million, TE-$2 million, Met










Ed, Penelec, and JCP&L-less than$1 millioneach) during a policy year.

FirstEnergy intends to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as described above as long as it is available. To the extent that replacement power, property damage, decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs and other such costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of FirstEnergy’s plants exceed the policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that plant, to the extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by FirstEnergy’s insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the future, FirstEnergy would remain at risk for such costs.

The NRC requires nuclear power plant licensees to obtain minimum property insurance coverage of$1.1 billionor the amount generally available from private sources, whichever is less. The proceeds of this insurance are required to be used first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in a safe and stable condition and can be maintained in that condition so as to prevent any significant risk to the public health and safety. Within30days of stabilization, the licensee is required to prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval. The plan is required to identify all cleanup operations necessary to decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption of operations or to commence decommissioning. Any property insurance proceeds not already expended to place the reactor in a safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC. FirstEnergy is unable to predict what effect these requirements may have on the availability of insurance proceeds.



Hydro Relicensing

Yards Creek

The Yards Creek Pumped Storage Project is a400MWhydroelectric project located in Warren County, New Jersey. JCP&L owns an undivided50%interest in the project, and operates the project. PSEG Fossil, LLC, a subsidiary of Public Service Enterprise Group, owns the remaining interest in the plant. The project was constructed in the early 1960s, and became operational in 1965. Authorization to operate the project is by a license issued by the FERC. The existing license expires on February 28, 2013.



In February 2011, JCP&L and PSEG filed a joint application with FERC to renew the license for an additional forty years. The companies are pursuing relicensure through FERC's ILP. Under the ILP, FERC will assess the license applications, issue draft and final Environmental Assessments/Environmental Impact Studies (as required by NEPA), and provide opportunities for intervention and protests by affected third parties. FERC may hold hearings during the two-year ILP licensure period. FirstEnergy expects FERC to issue the new license within the remaining portion of the two-year ILP period. To the extent, however, that the license proceedings extend beyond the February 28, 2013 expiration date for the current license, the current license will be extended yearly as necessary to permit FERC to issue the new license.

Seneca



The Seneca Pumped Storage Project is a451MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County, Pennsylvania owned and operated by FGCO. FGCO holds the current FERC license that authorizes ownership and operation of the project. The current FERC license will expire on November 30, 2015. FERC's regulations call for a five-year relicensing process. On November 24, 2010, and acting pursuant to applicable FERC regulations and rules, FGCO initiated the relicensing process by filing its notice of intent to relicense and PAD in the license docket.



On November 30, 2010, the Seneca Nation filed its notice of intent to relicense and PADs necessary for them to submit a competing application. Section 15 of the FPA contemplates that third parties may file a "competing application" to assume ownership and operation of a hydroelectric facility upon (i) relicensure and (ii) payment of net book value of the plant to the original owner/operator. Nonetheless, FGCO believes it is entitled to a statutory “incumbent preference” under Section 15.



The Seneca Nation and certain other intervenors have asked FERC to redefine the “project boundary” of the hydroelectric plant to include the dam and reservoir facilities operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. On May 16, 2011, FirstEnergy filed a Petition for Declaratory Order with FERC seeking an order to exclude the dam and reservoir facilities from the project. The Seneca Nation, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and the U.S. Department of Interior each submitted responses to FirstEnergy's petition, including motions to dismiss FirstEnergy's petition. The “project boundary” issue is pending before FERC.



On September 12, 2011, FirstEnergy and the Seneca Nation each filed “Revised Study Plan” documents. These documents describe the parties' respective proposals for the scope of the environmental studies that should be performed as part of the relicensing process. On October 11, 2011, FERC Staff issued a letter order that addressed the Revised Study Plans. In the order, FERC Staff approved FirstEnergy's Revised Study Plan, subject to a finding that the Project is located on “aboriginal lands” of the Seneca Nation. Based on this finding, FERC Staff directed FirstEnergy to consult with the Seneca Nation and other parties about the data set, methodology, and modeling of the hydrological impacts of project operations. FirstEnergy is performing the work necessary to develop a study proposal from which to conduct such consultations. The study process will extend through approximately November of 2013.



FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.














Environmental Matters

Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on FirstEnergy's earnings and competitive position to the extent that FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations.

CAA Compliance

FirstEnergy is required to meet federally-approved SO2and NOx emissions regulations under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2and NOx reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower-sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post-combustion controls, generating more electricity from lower or non-emitting plants and/or using emission allowances. Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal penalties.

In July 2008,threecomplaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on air emissions from the coal-fired Bruce Mansfield Plant.Twoof these complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a “safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner,” one being a complaint filed on behalf oftwenty-oneindividuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action with theeightnamed plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints.

The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at the coal-fired Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (formerly RRI Energy, Inc. and the current owner and operator), Sithe Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met-Ed in 1999) and Met-Ed. Specifically, these suits allege that “modifications” at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAA's PSD program, and seek injunctive relief, penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009, the Court granted Met-Ed's motion to dismiss New Jersey's and Connecticut's claims for injunctive relief against Met-Ed, but denied Met-Ed's motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The parties dispute the scope of Met-Ed's indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy, and Met-Ed is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn Energy, Inc. alleging NSR violations at the coal-fired Portland Generation Station based on “modifications” dating back to 1986. The NOV also alleged NSR violations at the Keystone and Shawville coal-fired plants based on “modifications” dating back to 1984. Met-Ed, JCP&L and Penelec are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

In each of May and September 2010, New Jersey submitted interstate pollution transport petitions seeking to reduce Portland Generating Station air emissions under section 126 of the CAA. Based on the September 2010 petition, the EPA has finalized emissions limits and compliance schedules to reduce SO2air emissions by approximately 81% at the Portland Station by January 6, 2015. New Jersey's May 2010 petition is still under consideration by the EPA.



In December 2011, the U.S., the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey and New York all filed notices appealing to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Penelec believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in these complaints, but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the loss or possible range of loss. Mission is seeking indemnification from NYSEG and Penelec, the co-owners of Homer City prior to its sale in 1999. On February 13, 2012, the Sierra Club notified the current owner and operator of Homer City, Homer City OL1-OL8 LLC and EME Homer City Generation L.P., that it intends to file a CAA citizen suit regarding its Title V permit and SO




emissions from the Homer City Plant.



In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, including the PSD, NNSR and Title V regulations, at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal-fired plants. The EPA's NOV alleges equipment replacements during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre-construction permitting requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO also received a request for certain operating and maintenance information and planning










information for these same generating plants and notification that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake Plant may constitute a major modification under the NSR provisions of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake Plant. In June 2011, EPA issued another Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and Ohio regulations, specifically opacity limitations and requirements to continuously operate opacity monitoring systems at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay Shore and Ashtabula coal-fired plants. Also, in June 2011, FirstEnergy received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA for certain operating, maintenance and planning information, among other information regarding these plants. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPA's information requests but, at this time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

In August 2000, AE received an information request pursuant to section 114(a) of the CAA from the EPA requesting that it provide information and documentation relevant to the operation and maintenance of the followingtencoal-fired plants, which collectively include22electric generation units: Albright, Armstrong, Fort Martin, Harrison, Hatfield's Ferry, Mitchell, Pleasants, Rivesville, R. Paul Smith and Willow Island to determine compliance with the NSR provisions under the CAA, which can require the installation of additional air emission control equipment when a major modification of an existing facility results in an increase in emissions. AE has provided responsive information to this and a subsequent request but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

In May 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a Notice of Intent to Sue Pursuant to CAA §7604 from the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and from the PA DEP, alleging that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the PSD provisions of the CAA at the following West Virginia coal-fired generation units: Albright Unit 3; Fort Martin Units 1 and 2; Harrison Units 1, 2 and 3; Pleasants Units 1 and 2 and Willow Island Unit 2. The Notice also alleged PSD violations at the Armstrong, Hatfield's Ferry and Mitchell coal-fired plants in Pennsylvania and identifies PA DEP as the lead agency regarding those facilities. In September 2004, AE, AE Supply, MP and WP received a separate Notice of Intent to Sue from the Maryland Attorney General that essentially mirrored the previous Notice.

In June 2005, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland filed suit against AE, AE Supply, MP, PE and WP in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania alleging, among other things, that Allegheny performed major modifications in violation of the CAA and the Pennsylvania Air Pollution Control Act at the coal-fired Hatfield's Ferry, Armstrong and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania. On January 17, 2006, the PA DEP and the Attorneys General filed an amended complaint. A non-jury trial on liability only was held in September 2010. Plaintiffs filed their proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in December 2010, Allegheny made its related filings in February 2011 and plaintiffs filed their responses in April 2011. The parties are awaiting a decision from the District Court, but there is no deadline for that decision and we are unable to predict the outcome or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

In September 2007, Allegheny received a NOV from the EPA alleging NSR and PSD violations under the CAA, as well as Pennsylvania and West Virginia state laws at the coal-fired Hatfield's Ferry and Armstrong plants in Pennsylvania and the coal-fired Fort Martin and Willow Island plants in West Virginia.

FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CAA matters described above but cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

State Air Quality Compliance

In early 2006, Maryland passed the Healthy Air Act, which imposes state-wide emission caps on SO




and NOx, requires mercury emission reductions and mandates that Maryland join the RGGI and participate in that coalition's regional efforts to reduce CO




emissions. On April 20, 2007, Maryland became the tenth state to join the RGGI. The Healthy Air Act provides a conditional exemption for the R. Paul Smith coal-fired plant for NOx, SO




and mercury, based on a 2006 PJM declaration that the plant is vital to reliability in the Baltimore/Washington DC metropolitan area. Pursuant to the legislation, the MDE passed alternate NOx and SO




limits for R. Paul Smith, which became effective in April 2009. However, R. Paul Smith is still required to meet the Healthy Air Act mercury reductions of



80%



which began in 2010. The statutory exemption does not extend to R. Paul Smith's CO




emissions. Maryland issued final regulations to implement RGGI requirements in February 2008.



Fourteen



RGGI auctions have been held through the end of calendar year 2011. RGGI allowances are also readily available in the allowance markets, affording another mechanism by which to secure necessary allowances. On March 14, 2011, MDE requested PJM perform an analysis to determine if termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region under current system conditions. On June 30, 2011, PJM notified MDE that termination of operation at R. Paul Smith would adversely impact the reliability of electrical service in the PJM region absent transmission system upgrades. On January 26, 2012, FirstEnergy announced that R. Paul Smith is among nine coal-fired plants it intends to retire by September 1, 2012, subject to review of reliability impacts by PJM. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of this matter or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.



In January 2010, the WVDEP issued a NOV for opacity emissions at the Pleasants coal-fired plant. In August 2011, FirstEnergy and WVDEP resolved the NOV through a Consent Order requiring installation of a reagent injection system to reduce opacity by September 2012.

National Ambient Air Quality Standards

The EPA's CAIR requires reductions of NOx and SO2emissions intwophases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping SO2










emissions in affected states to



2.5 million



tons annually and NOx emissions to



1.3 million



tons annually. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated CAIR “in its entirety” and directed the EPA to “redo its analysis from the ground up.” In December 2008, the Court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed CAIR to remain in effect to “temporarily preserve its environmental values” until the EPA replaces CAIR with a new rule consistent with the Court's opinion. The Court ruled in a different case that a cap-and-trade program similar to CAIR, called the “NOx SIP Call,” cannot be used to satisfy certain CAA requirements (known as reasonably available control technology) for areas in non-attainment under the “8-hour” ozone NAAQS. In July 2011, the EPA finalized the CSAPR, to replace CAIR,

requiring reductions of NOx and SO




emissions in



two

phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping SO




emissions in affected states to



2.4 million



tons annually and NOx emissions to



1.2 million



tons annually. CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO




emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO




emission allowances with some restrictions. On February 21, 2012, the EPA revised certain CASPR state budgets (for Florida, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin and new unit set-asides in Arkansas and Texas), certain generating unit allocations (for some units in Alabama, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee) for NOx and SO




emissions and delayed from 2012 to 2014 certain allowance penalties that could apply with respect to interstate trading of NOx and SO




emission allowances.



On December 30, 2011, CSAPR was stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit pending a decision on legal challenges raised in appeals filed by various stakeholders and scheduled to be argued before the Court on April 13, 2012. The Court ordered EPA to continue administration of CAIR until the Court resolves the CSAPR appeals. Depending on the outcome of these proceedings and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, FGCO's and AE Supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy's operations may result.





During 2011, FirstEnergy recorded pre-tax impairment charges of approximately$6 million($1 millionfor FES and$5 millionfor AE Supply) for NOx emission allowances that were expected to be obsolete after 2011 and approximately$21 million($18 millionfor FES and$3 millionfor AE Supply) for excess SO2emission allowances in inventory that it expects will not be consumed in the future.

Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions

On December 21, 2011, the EPA finalized the MATS to establish emission standards for mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals for electric generating units. The MATS establishes emission limits for mercury, PM, and HCL for all existing and new coal-fired electric generating units effective in April 2015 and allows averaging of emissions from multiple units located at a single plant. Under the CAA, state permitting authorities can grant an additional compliance year through April 2016, as needed, including instances when necessary to maintain reliability where electric generating units are being closed. In addition, an EPA enforcement policy document contemplates up to an additional year to achieve compliance, through April 2017, under certain circumstances for reliability critical units. On January 26, 2012 and February 8, 2012, FGCO, MP and AE Supply announced the retirement by September 1, 2012 (subject to a reliability review by PJM) of nine coal-fired power plants (Albright, Armstrong, Ashtabula, Bay Shore except for generating unit 1, Eastlake, Lake Shore, R. Paul Smith, Rivesville and Willow Island) with a total capacity of



3,349



megawatts (generating, on average, approximately ten percent of the electricity produced by the companies over the past three years) due to MATS and other environmental regulations. In addition, MP will make a filing with the WVPSC to provide them with information regarding the retirement of its plants. Depending on how the MATS are ultimately implemented, FirstEnergy's future cost of compliance with MATS may be substantial and other changes to FirstEnergy's operations may result.



On February 24, 2012, PJM notified FirstEnergy of its preliminary analysis of the reliability impacts that may result from closure of the older competitive coal-fired generating units. PJM's preliminary analysis indicated that there would be significant reliability concerns that will need to be addressed. FirstEnergy intends to continue to actively engage in discussions with PJM regarding this notification, including the possible continued operation of certain plants.

Climate Change

There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, in June 2009. Certain states, primarily the northeastern states participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs.

In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that required FirstEnergy to measure and report GHG emissions commencing in 2010. In December 2009, the EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act.” The EPA's finding concludes that concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as “air pollutants” under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years 2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles and clarified that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAA's NSR program would be required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of75,000tons per year of CO2equivalents effective January 2, 2011, for existing facilities under the CAA's PSD program.

At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man-made GHG, including CO2,emitted by developed countries










by 2012. A December 2009 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non-binding political agreement that recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below



two



degrees Celsius; includes a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching



$30 billion



over three years with a goal of increasing to



$100 billion



by 2020; and establishes the “Green Climate Fund” to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate-related activities in developing countries. To the extent that they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord, developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit to quantified economy-wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification.



A December 2011 U.N. Climate Change Conference in Durban, Africa, established a negotiating process to develop a new post-2020 climate change protocol, called the “Durban Platform for Enhanced Action”. This negotiating process contemplates developed countries, as well as developing countries such as China, India, Brazil, and South Africa, to undertake legally binding commitments post-2020. In addition, certain countries agreed to extend the Kyoto Protocol for a second commitment period, commencing in 2013 and expiring in 2018 or 2020.



In 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global warming and result in property damages. The U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to review the decision of the Second Circuit. On June 20, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the Second Circuit but failed to answer the question of the extent to which actions for damages based on GHG emissions may remain viable. The Court remanded to the Second Circuit the issue of whether the CAA preempted state common law nuisance actions.

FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. The CO2emissions per KWH of electricity generated by FirstEnergy is lower than many of its regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non-CO2emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.

Clean Water Act

Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's plants. In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy's operations.

In 2004, the EPA established new performance standards under Section 316(b) of the CWA for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. The regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system). In 2007, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated portions of the Section 316(b) performance standards and the EPA has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs, permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. In April 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed one significant aspect of the Second Circuit's opinion and decided that Section 316(b) of the CWA authorizes the EPA to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. On March 28, 2011, the EPA released a new proposed regulation under Section 316(b) of the CWA generally requiring fish impingement to be reduced to a



12%



annual average and studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site-specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. On July 19, 2011, the EPA extended the public comment period for the new proposed Section 316(b) regulation by






days but stated its schedule for issuing a final rule remains July 27, 2012. FirstEnergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the Bay Shore power plant's water intake channel to divert fish away from the plant's water intake system. Depending on the results of such studies and the EPA's further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures.



In April 2011, the U.S. Attorney's Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is no longer considering prosecution under the CWA and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26, 2007 and February 27, 2007. On August 5, 2011, EPA issued an information request pursuant to Sections 308 and 311 of the CWA for certain information pertaining to the oil spills and spill prevention measures at FirstEnergy facilities. FirstEnergy responded on October 10, 2011.On February 1, 2012, FirstEnergy executed a tolling agreement with the EPA extending the statute of limitations to July 31, 2012. FGCO does not anticipate any losses resulting from this matter to be material.

In May 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club filed a CWA citizen suit alleging violations of arsenic limits in the NPDES water discharge permit for the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Station seeking unspecified civil penalties and injunctive relief. The MP filed an answer on July 11, 2011, and a motion to stay the proceedings on July 13, 2011. On January 3, 2012, the Court denied MP's motion to dismiss or stay the CWA citizen suit but without prejudice to re-filing in the future. MP is currently seeking relief from the arsenic limits through WVDEP agency review.










In June 2011, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy, the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, and the Sierra Club served a60-Day Notice of Intent required prior to filing a citizen suit under the CWA for alleged failure to obtain a permit to construct the fly ash impoundments at the Albright Plant.

FirstEnergy intends to vigorously defend against the CWA matters described above but, except as indicated above, cannot predict their outcomes or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.

Monongahela River Water Quality

In late 2008, the PA DEP imposed water quality criteria for certain effluents, including TDS and sulfate concentrations in the Monongahela River, on new and modified sources, including the scrubber project at the coal-fired Hatfield's Ferry Plant. These criteria are reflected in the current PA DEP water discharge permit for that project. AE Supply appealed the PA DEP's permitting decision, which would require it to incur estimated costs in excess of



$150 million



in order to install technology to meet TDS and sulfate limits in the permit or negatively affect its ability to operate the scrubbers as designed. The permit has been independently appealed by Environmental Integrity Project and Citizens Coal Council, which seeks to impose more stringent technology-based effluent limitations. Those same parties have intervened in the appeal filed by AE Supply, and both appeals have been consolidated for discovery purposes. An order has been entered that stays the permit limits that AE Supply has challenged while the appeal is pending. A hearing on the parties' appeals was scheduled to begin in September 2011, however the Court stayed all prehearing deadlines on July 15, 2011 to allow the parties additional time to work out a settlement, and has rescheduled a hearing, if necessary, for July 2012. If these settlement discussions are successful, AE Supply anticipates that its obligations will not be material. AE Supply intends to vigorously pursue these issues, but cannot predict the outcome of these appeals or estimate the possible loss or range of loss.



In a parallel rulemaking, the PA DEP recommended, and in August 2010, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board issued, a final rule imposing end-of-pipe TDS effluent limitations. FirstEnergy could incur significant costs for additional control equipment to meet the requirements of this rule, although its provisions do not apply to electric generating units until the end of 2018, and then only if the EPA has not promulgated TDS effluent limitation guidelines applicable to such units.

In December 2010, PA DEP submitted its CWA 303(d) list to the EPA with a recommended sulfate impairment designation for an approximately68mile stretch of the Monongahela River north of the West Virginia border. In May 2011, the EPA agreed with PA DEP's recommended sulfate impairment designation. PA DEP's goal is to submit a final water quality standards regulation, incorporating the sulfate impairment designation for EPA approval by May, 2013. PA DEP will then need to develop a TMDL limit for the river, a process that will take approximatelyfiveyears. Based on the stringency of the TMDL, FirstEnergy may incur significant costs to reduce sulfate discharges into the Monongahela River from the coal-fired Hatfield's Ferry and Mitchell Plants in Pennsylvania and the coal-fired Fort Martin Plant in West Virginia.



Regulation of Waste Disposal

Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976. Certain fossil-fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February 2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste.

In December 2009, in an advance notice of public rulemaking, the EPA asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. In May 2010, the EPA proposedtwooptions for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPA's hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FirstEnergy's future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be promulgated could










be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the states. Compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on FirstEnergy's results of operations and financial condition.

LBR CCB impoundment is expected to run out of disposal capacity for disposal of CCBs from the BMP between 2016 and 2018. BMP is pursuing several CCB disposal options.

Certain of our utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of



December 31, 2011

, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the Utility Registrants' proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay.



Total liabilities of approximately



$106 million



(JCP&L -



$70 million

, TE -



$1 million

, CEI -



$1 million

, FGCO -



$1 million



and FE -



$33 million

) have been accrued through



December 31, 2011

. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately



$63 million



for environmental remediation of former manufactured gas plants and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC. On July 11, 2011, FirstEnergy was found to be a potentially responsible party under CERCLA, indirectly liable for a portion of past and future clean-up costs at certain legacy MGP sites, estimated to total approximately



$59 million

. FirstEnergy recognized an additional expense of



$29 million



during the second quarter of 2011;



$30 million



had previously been reserved prior to 2011.



FirstEnergy determined that it is reasonably possible that it or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the possible losses or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time.





Fuel Supply

FirstEnergy currently has long-term coal contracts with various terms to acquire approximately 34.5 million tons of coal for the year 2012 which is approximately 90% of its 2012 coal requirements of 38.5 million tons. This coal requirement excludes the impact of our recently announced decision to close nine older coal-fired plants by September 1, 2012, subject to review for reliability impacts by PJM. This contract coal is produced primarily from mines located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Montana and Wyoming. The contracts expire at various times through December 31, 2030. See “Environmental Matters” for factors pertaining to meeting environmental regulations affecting coal-fired generating units.

FirstEnergy has contracts for all uranium requirements through 2012 and a portion of uranium material requirements through 2024. Conversion services contracts fully cover requirements through 2012 and partially fill requirements through 2024. Enrichment services are contracted for essentially all of the enrichment requirements for nuclear fuel through 2020. A portion of enrichment requirements is also contracted for through 2024. Fabrication services for fuel assemblies are contracted for both Beaver Valley units through 2013 and Davis-Besse through 2025 and through the current operating license period for Perry. In addition to the existing commitments, FirstEnergy intends to make additional arrangements for the supply of uranium and for the subsequent conversion, enrichment, fabrication, and waste disposal services.



On-site spent fuel storage facilities are expected to be adequate for Beaver Valley Unit 1 through 2014. Davis-Besse has adequate storage through 2017. FENOC is taking actions to extend the spent fuel storage capacity for Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2 and Perry. Plant modifications to increase the storage capacity of the existing spent fuel storage pool at Beaver Valley Unit 2 were approved by the NRC on April 29, 2011 and the plant modifications are expected to be complete in 2012. Once this expansion is complete, Beaver Valley Unit 2 will have spent fuel pool storage capacity through 2022. Dry fuel storage is also being pursued at Beaver Valley with completion projected by the end of 2014. Perry dry fuel storage facilities have been completed with the initial dry fuel storage loading campaign targeted for 2012. Both Beaver Valley Unit 2 and Perry maintain sufficient fuel storage capability to continue operations through the targeted completion dates of their respective storage expansion projects. After current on-site storage capacity at the plants is exhausted, additional storage capacity will have to be obtained either through plant modifications, interim off-site disposal, or permanent waste disposal facilities.



The Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provided for the construction of facilities for the permanent disposal of high-level nuclear wastes, including spent fuel from nuclear power plants operated by electric utilities. NGC has contracts with the DOE for the disposal of spent fuel for Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry. Yucca Mountain was approved in 2002 as a repository for underground disposal of spent nuclear fuel from nuclear power plants and high level waste from U.S. defense programs. The DOE submitted the license application for Yucca Mountain to the NRC on June 3, 2008. On March 3, 2010, the DOE filed a motion to withdraw its Yucca Mountain license application with prejudice. The ASLB denied the DOE's withdrawal motion on June 29, 2010. On September 9, 2011, the NRC issued an Order (CLI-11-07) stating that it was evenly divided on whether to overturn or uphold the ASLB's decision, and directing the ASLB to complete all necessary and appropriate case management activities by the close of the fiscal year. The current Administration has stated the Yucca Mountain repository will not be completed and a Federal review of potential alternative strategies is being performed. The President's 2011 budget proposal eliminated funding for Yucca Mountain, and the 2011 DOE appropriation did not include any funds for Yucca Mountain. Likewise, the President's 2012 budget proposal does not provide for funding of Yucca Mountain.



In parallel, several parties filed actions in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit challenging the Department's authority to withdraw the license application in light of its obligations under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. The first case filed wasIn re: Aiken County, filed on February 19, 2010. Robert L. Ferguson, et al. filed a petition on February 25, 2010; State of South Carolina filed










on March 26, 2010; and State of Washington filed on April 13, 2010. These cases have since been consolidated. On May 3, 2010, the D.C. Circuit granted a motion by the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners to intervene. Oral arguments were heard by the D.C. Circuit on March 22, 2011. The D.C. Circuit dismissed the petitions for lack of jurisdiction on July 1, 2011, finding a lack of finality and ripeness until the Commission acts on DOE's motion to withdraw or rules on the license application. In response to the NRC's order from September 2011, the states and other interested parties re-commenced their challenge at the D. C. Circuit, in Aiken County et al., No. 11-1271. Briefing in that appeal was recently completed, and oral argument has been set for May 2, 2012. In light of this uncertainty, FirstEnergy intends to make additional arrangements for storage capacity as a contingency for the continuing delays of the DOE acceptance of spent fuel for disposal.



Fuel oil and natural gas are used primarily to fuel peaking units and/or to ignite the burners prior to burning coal when a coal-fired plant is restarted. Fuel oil requirements have historically been low and are forecasted to remain so. Requirements are expected to average approximately 4 million gallons per year over the next five years. Natural gas is currently consumed primarily by peaking units and demand is forecasted at less than 7 million mcf in 2012.



System Demand

The 2011 maximum hourly demand for each of the Utilities was:

•OE—6,070 MW on July 21, 2011;

•Penn—1,048 MW on July 21, 2011;

•CEI—4,648 MW on July 21, 2011;

•TE—2,286 MW on July 21, 2011;

•JCP&L—6,588 MW on July 22, 2011;

•Met-Ed—3,094 MW on July 22, 2011;

•Penelec—3,128 MW on July 22, 2011;

•MP—1,989 MW on July 21, 2011;

•PE—2,969 MW on July 21, 2011; and

•WP—4,017 MW on July 21, 2011



Supply Plan

Regulated Commodity Sourcing

Certain of the Utilities have default service obligations to provide power to non-shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service territory. JCP&L’s default service or BGS supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. The Ohio Companies', Pennsylvania Companies' and PE's Maryland default service supplies are provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO (under the ESP), PPUC (under the DSP) and MDPSC (under the SOS), respectively. If any supplier fails to deliver power to any one of those Utilities’ service areas, the Utility serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as a POLR. West Virginia electric generation continues to be regulated by the WVPSC.

Unregulated Commodity Sourcing

The Competitive Energy Services segment, through FES and AE Supply, provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale of electricity and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale competitive supply arrangements. FES supplies the power requirements of its competitive load-serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary-owned generation, non-affiliated contracts and spot market transactions.

FES and AE Supply have retail and wholesale competitive load-serving obligations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey, serving both affiliated and non-affiliated companies. FES and AE Supply provide energy products and services to customers under various POLR, shopping, competitive-bid and non-affiliated contractual obligations. Geographically, most of FES’ and AE Supply's obligations are in the PJM market area where all of its respective generation facilities are located.



Regional Reliability

All of FirstEnergy's facilities are located within PJM and operate under the reliability oversight of a regional entity known as RFC. This regional entity operates under the oversight of the NERC in accordance with a Delegation Agreement approved by the FERC. RFC began operations under the NERC on January 1, 2006. On July 20, 2006, the NERC was certified by the FERC as the ERO










in the United States pursuant to Section 215 of the FPA and RFC was certified as a regional entity.



Competition

As a result of actions taken by state legislative bodies, major changes in the electric utility business have occurred in portions of the United States, including Ohio, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Maryland, where most of FirstEnergy utility subsidiaries operate. These changes have altered the way traditional integrated utilities conduct their business. FirstEnergy has aligned its business units to participate in the competitive electricity marketplace (see Management's Discussion and Analysis for more information regarding FirstEnergy's Competitive Energy Services segment).

FirstEnergy's Competitive Energy Services segment participates in deregulated energy markets in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey and Illinois, through FES and AE Supply. In these markets, the Competitive Energy Services segment competes: (1) to provide retail generation service directly to end users; (2) to provide wholesale generation service to utilities, municipalities and co-operatives, which, in turn, resell to their end users, and (3) in the wholesale market. The success of the Competitive Energy Services segment is driven by its ability to successfully compete against other retail markets and/or generators and to produce revenues that exceed costs.



Seasonality

The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business and weather patterns can have a material impact on FirstEnergy’s operating results. Demand for electricity in our service territories historically peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also generally peaking at that time. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s annual results of operations and liquidity position may depend disproportionately on its operating performance during the summer and winter. Mild weather conditions may result in lower power sales and consequently lower earnings.



Research and Development

The Utilities, FES, FGCO and FENOC participate in the funding of EPRI, which was formed for the purpose of expanding electric R&D under the voluntary sponsorship of the nation’s electric utility industry — public, private and cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit utilities and their customers by promoting the development of new and improved technologies to help the utility industry meet present and future electric energy needs in environmentally and economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts research on all aspects of electric power production and use, including fuels, generation, delivery, energy management and conservation, environmental effects and energy analysis. The majority of EPRI’s research and development projects are directed toward practical solutions and their applications to problems currently facing the electric utility industry.

FirstEnergy participates in other initiatives with industry R&D consortiums and universities to address technology needs for its various business units. Participation in these consortiums helps the company address research needs in areas such as plant operations and maintenance, major component reliability, environmental controls, advanced energy technologies, and transmission and distribution system infrastructure to improve performance, and develop new technologies for advanced energy and grid applications.












Executive Officers



NameAgePositions Held During Past Five YearsDates

A. J. Alexander60President and Chief Executive Officer (A)(B)*-present

Chief Executive Officer (F)*-present

President and Chief Executive Officer (H)2011-present

President (C)(D)*-2008



L. M. Cavalier60Senior Vice President, Human Resources (B)*-present

Senior Vice President, Human Resources (H)2011-present



M. T. Clark61President and Chief Financial Officer (G)(L)2012-present

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)2009-present

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (H)(I)(J)(K)2011-present

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (G)2011

Executive Vice President, Strategic Planning & Operations (A)(B)2008-2009

Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning & Operations (B)*-2008



M. J. Dowling47Senior Vice President, External Affairs (B)(H)2011-present

Vice President, External Affairs (B)2010-2011

Vice President, Communications (B)2008-2010

Vice President, Governmental Affairs (B)2007-2008

Vice President (B)*-2007



C. E. Jones56Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (B)2010-present

Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (H)2011-present

President (J)(K)2011-present

President (C)(D)2010-present

Senior Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Utilities (A)2010-2011

Senior Vice President, Energy Delivery & Customer Service (B)2009-2010

President (E)2007-2009

Senior Vice President (B)(C)(D)*-2007



J. H. Lash61President FE, Generation (B)(H)2011-present

Chief Nuclear Officer (F)2011-present

President (I)2011-present

President and Chief Nuclear Officer (F)2010-2011

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (F)2007-2010

Vice President, Beaver Valley (F)*-2007



G. R. Leidich61Executive Vice President, Integration (A)(B)(H)(M)2011

President (G)(M)2011

Executive Vice President & President, FirstEnergy Generation (A)(B)(M)2008-2011

Senior Vice President, Operations (B)2007-2008

President and Chief Nuclear Officer (F)*-2007



J. F. Pearson57Vice President and Treasurer (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)*-present

Vice President and Treasurer (G)(H)(I)(J)(K)2011-present



D. R. Schneider50President (E)2009-present

Senior Vice President, Energy Delivery & Customer Service (B)2007-2009

Senior Vice President (C)(D)2007-2009

Vice President (B)*-2007



L. L. Vespoli52Executive Vice President and General Counsel (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)2008-present

Executive Vice President and General Counsel (G)(H)(I)(J)(K)2011-present

Senior Vice President and General Counsel (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)*-2008



H. L. Wagner59Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (A)*-present

Vice President and Controller (C)(D)(E)(F)*-present

Vice President and Controller (G)(I)(J)(K)2011-present

Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (H)2011-present

Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (B)2010-present

Vice President and Controller (B)*-2010

* Indicates position held at least since January 1, 2007(E) Denotes executive officer of FES(J) Denotes executive officer of MP, PE and WP(A) Denotes executive officer of FE(F) Denotes executive officer of FENOC(K) Denotes executive officer of TrAIL(B) Denotes executive officer of FESC(G) Denotes executive officer of AE(L) Position effective January 1, 2012(C) Denotes executive officer of OE, CEI and TE(H) Denotes executive officer of AESC(M) Retired on December 31, 2011(D) Denotes executive officer of Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn(I) Denotes executive officer of AGC












Employees

As of December 31, 2011, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries had 17,257 employees located in the United States as follows:

TotalEmployeesBargainingUnitEmployeesFESC2,975293AESC(1)3,9711,177OE1,222714CEI897608TE390290Penn204153JCP&L1,4131,090Met-Ed678488Penelec896638ATSI38—FES273—FGCO1,6521,061FENOC2,648957Total17,2577,469

(1)AESC employs substantially all of the former Allegheny personnel who provide services to AE and its subsidiaries, including AE Supply, AGC, MP, PE, WP and TrAIL.



FirstEnergy Web Site

Each of the registrant’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also made available free of charge on or through FirstEnergy’s internet Web site at www.firstenergycorp.com. These reports are posted on the Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. Additionally, we routinely post important information on our Web site and recognize our Web site as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under the SEC's Regulation FD. Information contained on FirstEnergy’s Web site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be part of, this report.

In accordance with SEC rules, FirstEnergy will include disclosure of any amendment or waiver to its Code of Ethics or a provision of that Code on its Internet Web site within four business days following the date of any such amendment or waiver.



