
10-K


                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                   
                        Washington, D.C.  20549
                               FORM 10-K
                         
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
      X       OF   THE  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                         
             For the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994 or
                         
           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                         
          For  the  transition period from _______ to _______
                         
                         
                     Commission File Number 1-4825
                                   
                         WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
                                   
     A Washington Corporation                  (IRS Employer Identification
                                               No. 91-0470860)

                       Tacoma, Washington  98477
                       Telephone (206) 924-2345
                                   
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             Name of Each Exchange on
   Title of Each Class                           Which Registered
 ---------------------------------------    ---------------------------  
        
 Common Shares ($1.25 par value)             Midwest Stock Exchange
                                             New York Stock Exchange
                                             Pacific Stock Exchange
                                             Tokyo Stock Exchange
        
 Rights to Purchase Cumulative               New York Stock Exchange
   Preference Shares, Fourth Series
        



Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant  (1)  has  filed  all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934 during the preceding 12 months  (or  for  such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and  (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past  90
days.  Yes_X_  No___.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant  to
Item  405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will  not  be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive  proxy
or  information statements incorporated by reference in  Part  III  of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [  ].

As of February 24, 1995, 205,637,877 shares of the registrant's common
stock  ($1.25  par  value) were outstanding and the  aggregate  market
value  of  the  registrant's voting shares held by non-affiliates  was
approximately $8,713,905,038.

                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions  of  the  Annual Report to Shareholders for the  fiscal  year
ended December 25, 1994 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II
and IV.

Portions  of  the  Notice of 1995 Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  and
Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III.



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries















Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business
- -----------------

Weyerhaeuser  Company (the company) was incorporated in the  state  of
Washington  in  January 1900, as Weyerhaeuser Timber Company.   It  is
principally  engaged  in  growing and harvesting  of  timber  and  the
manufacture,  distribution and sale of forest  products,  real  estate
development  and construction, and financial services.  Its  principal
business  segments include timberlands and wood products; pulp,  paper
and packaging; real estate; and financial services.

Information with respect to the description and general development of
the  company's business, included on pages 35 through 40,  Description
of the Business of the Company, contained in the company's 1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Financial  information with respect to industry segments, included  in
Note  21  of Notes to Financial Statements contained in the  company's
1994  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,  is  incorporated  herein   by
reference.

Timberlands and Wood Products

The  company  owns  approximately  5.6  million  acres  of  commercial
forestland  in  the United States (51% in the South  and  49%  in  the
Pacific   Northwest),   most  of  it  highly  productive  and  located
extremely well to serve both domestic and international markets.   The
company  has, additionally, long-term license arrangements  in  Canada
covering  approximately 17.8 million acres (of which 14 million  acres
are  considered  to  be productive forestland).   The  combined  total
timber  inventory  on these U.S. and Canadian lands  is  approximately
246 million cunits (a cunit is 100 cubic feet of solid wood), of which
approximately 75% is softwood species.  The relationship between cubic
measurement and the quantity of end products that may be produced from
timber  varies according to the species, size and quality  of  timber,
and  will  change through time as the mix of these variables  changes.
To  sustain the timber supply from its fee timberlands, the company is
engaged in extensive planting, suppression of nonmerchantable species,
precommercial   and   commercial  thinning   and   fertilization   and
operational  pruning, all of which increase the  yield  from  its  fee
timberland acreage.






Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- ----------------------------- 

The  company's  wood  products businesses produce  and  sell  softwood
lumber,  plywood and veneer; composite panels; oriented strand  board;
hardboard; hardwood lumber and plywood; doors; treated products; logs;
chips  and  timber.   These products are sold  primarily  through  the
company's  own sales organizations.  Building materials  are  sold  to
wholesalers, retailers and industrial users.

Sales by volumes by major product class are as follows (millions):



Selected product prices:

                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- -----------------------------

Pulp, Paper and Packaging

The  company's  pulp, paper and packaging businesses  include:   Pulp,
which  manufactures  chemical wood pulp for world markets;  Newsprint,
which  manufactures  newsprint at the company's  North  Pacific  Paper
Corporation  mill and markets it to West Coast and Japanese  newspaper
publishers;  Paper, which manufactures and markets  a  range  of  both
coated  and uncoated fine papers through paper merchants and printers;
Containerboard   Packaging,   which   manufactures   linerboard    and
corrugating  medium,  which is primarily used  in  the  production  of
corrugated   shipping   containers,  and  manufactures   and   markets
corrugated   shipping  containers  for  industrial  and   agricultural
packaging; Paperboard, which manufactures bleached paperboard that  is
used for production of liquid containers and is marketed to West Coast
and  Pacific  Rim  customers; Recycling, which operates  an  extensive
wastepaper  collection  system and markets it  to  company  mills  and
worldwide  customers; and Chemicals, which produces chlorine,  caustic
and  tall oil, which are used principally by the company's pulp, paper
and  packaging  operations.   In  February  1993,  the  Personal  Care
Products  business,  which  manufactured disposable  diapers  marketed
under  the  private-label  brands of many of North  America's  largest
retailers was sold through an initial public offering of stock.


Sales volumes by major product class are as follows (thousands):


Selected product prices (per ton):





Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- -----------------------------

Real Estate

The  company,  through its real estate subsidiary,  Weyerhaeuser  Real
Estate  Company,  is  a  builder/developer  of  for-sale  housing  and
apartments,  develops  commercial and residential  lots  for  sale  to
retail  customers and other builders, builds commercial buildings  for
sale  to institutional investors, and is an investor in joint ventures
and limited partnerships.


Volumes sold:



Financial Services

The  company,  through its financial services subsidiary, Weyerhaeuser
Financial  Services,  Inc.,  is  involved  in  a  range  of  financial
services.   The  principal  operating unit  is  Weyerhaeuser  Mortgage
Company,  which has origination offices in 14 states, with a servicing
portfolio  of  $11.3  billion  covering  approximately  139,000  loans
throughout the country.  Mortgages are resold in the secondary  market
through  mortgage-backed  securities  to  financial  institutions  and
investors.   Through  its  insurance services  organization,  it  also
offers  a broad line of property, life and disability insurance.   GNA
Corporation,  a  subsidiary  that specialized  in  the  sale  of  life
insurance  annuities  and mutual funds to the customers  of  financial
institutions, was sold in April 1993.  Republic Federal Savings & Loan
Association, a subsidiary that operated in Southern California through
1991, was dissolved in 1992.


Volume information (millions):


                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties
- -------------------

Timberlands and Wood Products

Facilities and annual production are summarized by major product class
as follows (millions):



Principal manufacturing facilities are located as follows:

Softwood lumber and plywood                 Hardwood lumber
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho,          Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,
Mississippi, North Carolina,                Washington, and Wisconsin
Oklahoma, Oregon, Washington, and                       
Alberta,British Columbia, and               Hardwood doors
Saskatchewan, Canada                        Wisconsin
                                      
Composite panels                      
Georgia, North Carolina, Oregon and
Wisconsin

Oriented strand board
Michigan, North Carolina, and
Alberta, Canada

Hardboard
Oregon



                                   
                                   



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties - Continued
- -------------------------------

Pulp, Paper and Packaging

Facilities and annual production are summarized by major product class
as follows (thousands):



Principal manufacturing facilities are located as follows:

Pulp                                           Containerboard
Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina           North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Washington, and Alberta, British Columbia,     Oregon, and Washington
and Saskatchewan, Canada

                                               Packaging
                                               Arizona, California, Florida,
Newsprint                                      Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois,
Washington                                     Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky,  Maine,
                                               Michigan, Minnesota,
Paper                                          Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska,
Mississippi, North Carolina,                   New Jersey, New York,  North
Washington, Wisconsin, and                     Carolina, Ohio, Oregon,
Saskatchewan, Canada                           Tennessee, Texas, Virginia,
                                               Washington, and Wisconsin
Paperboard                           
Washington                          
                                               Recycling
                                               Arizona, California, Colorado,
                                               Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland,
                                               Minnesota, New Jersey, North
                                               Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,
                                               Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas,
                                               Virginia, Washington, and
                                               British Columbia, Canada
                                     
                                               Chemicals
                                               Georgia, Mississippi, North
                                               Carolina, Oklahoma, Washington,
                                               and Saskatchewan, Canada
                                                     
                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties - Continued
- -------------------------------

Real Estate

                                      




                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
- --------------------------

Trial  began in May 1992 in a federal income tax refund case that  the
company  filed  in July 1989 in the United States Claims  Court.   The
complaint  seeks  a refund of federal income taxes  that  the  company
contends  it  overpaid in 1977 through 1983.  The alleged overpayments
are  the result of the disallowance of certain timber casualty  losses
and  certain  deductions claimed by the company  arising  from  export
transactions.   The refund sought was approximately $29 million,  plus
statutory  interest from the dates of the alleged  overpayments.   The
company   settled  the  portion  of  the  case  relating   to   export
transactions  and received a tax refund of approximately $10  million,
plus  statutory interest.  In September 1994, the United States  Court
of  Federal Claims issued an opinion on the casualty loss issues which
will   result   in  the  allowance  of  additional  tax   refunds   of
approximately  $2  million,  plus  statutory  interest.   The  company
currently intends to appeal the decision.

On  March 6, 1992, the company filed a complaint in the Superior Court
for  King  County, Washington against a number of insurance companies.
The   complaint  seeks  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  insurance
companies  named  as  defendants are obligated  under  the  terms  and
conditions  of the policies sold by them to the company to defend  the
company  and to pay, on the company's behalf, certain claims  asserted
against  the  company.   The  claims relate to  alleged  environmental
damage  to third-party sites and to some of the company's own property
to  which allegedly toxic material was delivered or on which allegedly
toxic  material  was  placed in the past.  Since  December  1992,  the
company  has agreed to settlements with all but one of the defendants.
In  July  1993, the trial court dismissed fourteen of the  thirty-five
sites  named  in  the  complaint.  In May 1994, the  Washington  State
Supreme  Court  reversed the trial court's dismissal of  those  sites.
Trial  on  two  sites  against the sole remaining defendant  began  in
October  1994 and resulted in a jury verdict which awarded damages  to
the company with respect to one of the sites.

The  company  has  undertaken  a  review  of  all  its  wood  products
facilities   for   compliance  with  the  Prevention  of   Significant
Deterioration  (PSD)  regulations and  has  disclosed  PSD  compliance
issues  to  certain  state  agencies and the Environmental  Protection
Agency (EPA).  The company and the State of Mississippi Department  of
Environmental Quality have entered into a consent agreement concerning
PSD  regulations  at  company facilities in  Philadelphia  and  Bruce,
Mississippi,  involving  penalties of $170  thousand.   The  State  of
Alabama  has  issued a compliance order with penalties  totaling  $100
thousand  for  noncompliance  with PSD regulations  at  the  company's
Millport  facility.   The  company and North  Carolina's  Division  of
Environmental Management have entered into a consent agreement for its
Elkin,  North  Carolina facility involving penalties of $140  thousand
and  concluded  a  separate consent agreement for its  Moncure,  North
Carolina  facility involving penalties of $140 thousand.  The  company
has  signed  a consent agreement including penalties of $140  thousand
relating to PSD issues at the company's Wright City, Oklahoma facility
with  the State of Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality.   The
company  has  signed  consent agreements with the  State  of  Arkansas
concerning  PSD related issues for facilities in Dierks  and  Mountain
Pine,  involving $375 thousand in total penalties for both facilities.
Region  V  of  the  EPA  has issued a Notice of Violation  for  permit
violations at the company's Grayling, Michigan facility.  The  company
has  negotiated  a settlement of those alleged permit  violations  and
other  PSD  related  issues with the Michigan  Department  of  Natural
Resources that involves penalties of approximately $499 thousand.  The
company  has  entered into negotiations with the Lane  County,  Oregon
Regional Air Pollution Control Authority concerning a draft Notice  of
Violation which would seek penalties for alleged PSD violations at the
company's  Springfield, Oregon particleboard operations.  In September
1992,  the EPA issued a Section 114 Request for Information concerning
PSD  compliance  at  the company's oriented strand  board  and  medium
density  fiberboard  mills.  In June 1993, the EPA  issued  a  similar
Section 114 request for the company's plywood and particleboard mills.
The  EPA  issued a notice of violation in August 1994 for nine company
facilities  (including the Plymouth, North Carolina and Adel,  Georgia
wood  products  facilities and all of the facilities  mentioned  above
except   the  Grayling,  Michigan,  Springfield,  Oregon  and   Bruce,
Mississippi  wood  products facilities) as part of  its  national  PSD
enforcement  action  against  the company  and  other  forest  product
companies.

The  company  has also undertaken a review of its ten major  pulp  and
paper  facilities  to  evaluate the facilities'  compliance  with  PSD
regulations  and has disclosed the potential of PSD compliance  issues
to  six  state agencies and the EPA.  The company is currently working
with the states to negotiate settlements for the alleged violations.

The  Washington  State  Department of  Ecology  has  investigated  the
accidental  release of chlorine, chlorine dioxide and  non-condensable
gasses  at the company's pulp mill in Longview, in July 1994  and  has
issued  a  $10  thousand  penalty  for  the  chlorine  release  and  a
$5  thousand penalty for the non-condensable gasses release.  The  EPA
is also investigating the accidental chlorine release.



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings - Continued
- --------------------------------------

On  April  9, 1993, the company entered into a Stipulated Final  Order
(SFO)  with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality for alleged
air  emissions in excess of permit levels and PSD noncompliance at the
company's  North  Bend,  Oregon  containerboard  facility.   The   SFO
establishes  a compliance schedule for installing control  technology.
A  supplemental  SFO assessed upfront penalties of $247  thousand  and
penalties  of  500  dollars per day until compliance is  demonstrated.
The  SFO  required  demonstrated compliance by  December  1993  and  a
historical  evaluation of the facility's PSD status.  The company  has
submitted  a  plant site PSD review to the state and is  awaiting  its
review.

In  August  1992, the EPA issued an administrative complaint  for  the
assessment  of $215 thousand in civil penalties against the  company's
Longview,  Washington facility.  The penalties are based upon  alleged
violations  of  the  record  keeping and  storage  provisions  of  the
polychlorinated  biphenyls  (PCB)  rules  contained   in   the   Toxic
Substances Control Act.  The company and the EPA settled the complaint
for a maximum penalty of $118 thousand, 50% of which was paid when the
settlement was signed.  Payment of the remaining 50% was deferred  and
will be eliminated based on the expenditure of more than $118 thousand
by the company to dispose of PCB contaminated transformers.

On  November 2, 1992, an action was filed against the company  in  the
Circuit  Court  for  the  First Judicial  District  of  Hinds  County,
Mississippi,  on  behalf  of a purported class  of  riparian  property
owners in Mississippi and Alabama whose properties are located on  the
Tennessee  Tombigbee Waterway, Aliceville Lake, Cedar  Creek  and  the
Magoway  Creek.   The complaint seeks $1 billion in  compensatory  and
punitive  damages for diminution in property value, personal  injuries
and mental anguish allegedly resulting from the discharge of purported
hazardous  substances, including dioxins and furans, by the  company's
pulp  and  paper  mill  in  Columbus,  Mississippi,  and  the  alleged
fraudulent  concealments of such discharge.  The complaint also  seeks
an injunction prohibiting future releases and the removal of hazardous
substances  allegedly released in the past.  On  August  20,  1993,  a
companion action was filed in Greene County, Alabama, on behalf  of  a
similar  purported class of riparian owners with essentially the  same
claims as the Mississippi case.  On January 20, 1995, the court in the
Alabama  action certified a class of all persons who, as of  the  date
the  action commenced, were riparian owners, lessees and licensees  of
properties  located  on the Tennessee Tombigbee  Waterway  in  Greene,
Sumter, Pickens and Marengo counties, Alabama, and Lowndes and Noxubee
counties,  Mississippi, to determine whether the company is liable  to
the  members of the class for compensatory and/or punitive damages and
to  determine the amount of punitive damages, if any, to be awarded to
the  class  as a whole.  The class is estimated to exceed 400  members
and  may  range from 1,000 to 1,500 members.  Neither the  Mississippi
action nor the Alabama action is presently scheduled for trial.

The  company  was  sued in the United States District  Court  for  the
District  of  Alaska by two corporations with which  the  company  had
entered  into  financing arrangements, a marketing  agreement,  and  a
technical  assistance agreement.  The plaintiffs claimed  the  company
breached  contractual  and common law duties by allegedly  failing  to
adequately  market and ship the plaintiffs' products,  misrepresenting
its  marketing  and shipping capabilities, and acting to  further  its
interests  at  the plaintiffs' expense.  The plaintiffs in  the  First
Amended  Complaint,  filed in May 1992, sought an unstated  amount  of
damages  described  as  more than $50 million in compensatory  damages
plus  not  less than $75 million in punitive damages.  The  claim  for
punitive damages was dismissed by the trial court.  In March  1994,  a
jury  returned a verdict against the company awarding damages of  $1.2
million.  Both the company and the plaintiffs have appealed.

The  company  is also a party to various proceedings relating  to  the
clean-up   of   hazardous   waste  sites   under   the   Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, commonly  known
as  "Superfund," and similar state laws.  The EPA and/or various state
agencies  have  notified  the company that it  may  be  a  potentially
responsible  party with respect to other hazardous waste sites  as  to
which  no  proceedings have been instituted against the company.   The
company   is  also  a  party  to  other  legal  proceedings  generally
incidental to its business.  Although the final outcome of  any  legal
proceeding  is  subject  to  a  great many  variables  and  cannot  be
predicted with any degree of certainty, the company presently believes
that  any  ultimate  outcome  resulting  from  the  legal  proceedings
discussed  herein, or all of them combined, would not have a  material
effect  on  the  company's current financial  position,  liquidity  or
results  of operations; however, in any given future reporting period,
such  legal  proceedings could have a material effect  on  results  of
operations.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------------------------------------------------------------

There  were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders  during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994.




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART II

Item 5. Market Price of and Dividends on the Registrant's Common Equity
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
and Related Stockholder Matters
- -------------------------------

Information  with  respect  to  market information,  stockholders  and
dividends included in Notes 22 and 23 of Notes to Financial Statements
in  the  company's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated
herein by reference.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
- --------------------------------

Information with respect to selected financial data included  in  Note
23  of  Notes  to  Financial Statements in the company's  1994  Annual
Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Results of Operations
- ---------------------

Information  with  respect  to Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis
included on pages 25 through 32 and pages 35 through 45, contained  in
the  company's  1994  Annual Report to Shareholders,  is  incorporated
herein by reference.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Information
- ----------------------------------------------------------

Financial statements and supplementary information, contained  in  the
company's  1994 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated  herein
by reference:





Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Disclosure
- --------------------

Not applicable.




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART III



Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
- -----------------------------------------------------------

Information with respect to Directors of the company included on pages
1  through 4 of the Notice of 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders  and
Proxy  Statement  dated  March  6,  1995  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

The executive officers of the company are as follows:



Item 11.  Executive Compensation
- --------------------------------

Information with respect to executive compensation included on pages 5
through  13  of the Notice of 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders  and
Proxy  Statement  dated  March  6,  1995  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Information  with respect to security ownership of certain  beneficial
owners and management included on pages 4 and 5 of the Notice of  1995
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1995
is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- -------------------------------------------------------

Information   with  respect  to  certain  relationships  and   related
transactions included on pages 15 and 16 of the Notice of 1995 Annual
Meeting  of  Shareholders and Proxy Statement dated March 6,  1995  is
incorporated herein by reference.




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART IV


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial Statements

The  consolidated financial statements of the company,  together  with
the  report  of  independent  public  accountants,  contained  in  the
company's  1994  Annual Report to Shareholders,  are  incorporated  in
Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K by reference.




All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they
are  not  applicable or the required information is  included  in  the
consolidated financial statements, or the notes thereto, contained  in
the  company's  1994  Annual Report to Shareholders  and  incorporated
herein by reference.

Exhibits:
               3 -  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
              10 -   Material Contracts
                     (a) Agreement with N. E. Johnson
                     (b) Agreement with W. R. Corbin
              11 -   Statement Re: Computation of Per Share Earnings
                         (incorporated by reference to Note 1 of the 1994
                         Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Report to Shareholders)
              13 -   Portions of the 1994 Weyerhaeuser Company Annual
                     Report to Shareholders specifically incorporated by
                     reference herein
              22 -   Subsidiaries of the Registrant
              23 -   Consent of Independent Public Accountants
              27 -   Financial Data Schedules

Reports on Form 8-K
   The  registrant has not filed a report on Form 8-K during the  last
   fiscal quarter of the period for which this Form 10-K is filed.




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

SIGNATURES



Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized  on
March 10, 1995.


                                  Weyerhaeuser Company

                                  /s/ John W. Creighton, Jr.
                                  --------------------------
                                  John W. Creighton, Jr.
                                  President



Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934,
this  report has been signed below by the following persons on  behalf
of the registrant in the capacities indicated on March 10, 1995.


/s/ John W. Creighton, Jr.           /s/ Don C. Frisbee
- ---------------------------------    --------------------------------- 
John W. Creighton, Jr.               Don C. Frisbee
President, Principal Executive       Director
Officer and Director                         
                                     /s/ P. M. Hawley
                                     ---------------------------------
/s/ George H. Weyerhaeuser           Philip M. Hawley
- ---------------------------------    Director
George H. Weyerhaeuser               
Chairman of the Board and Director
                                     ---------------------------------
                                     E. Bronson Ingram
                                     Director
/s/ William C. Stivers               
- ---------------------------------
William C. Stivers                   
Principal Financial                  /s/ John Kieckhefer
Officer                              ---------------------------------
                                     John I. Kieckhefer
                                     Director
                                     
/s/ Kenneth J. Stancato              
- ---------------------------------
Kenneth J. Stancato                  /s/ William Ruckelshaus
Principal Accounting                 ---------------------------------
Officer                              William D. Ruckelshaus
                                     Director
                                     
                                     
/s/ William Clapp                    /s/ Richard H. Sinkfield
- ---------------------------------    ---------------------------------
William H. Clapp                     Richard H. Sinkfield
Director                             Director
                                     

/s/ W. John Driscoll
- ---------------------------------
W. John Driscoll
Director




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



Report  of  Independent  Public  Accountants  on  Financial  Statement
Schedules

To Weyerhaeuser Company:

We  have  audited  in  accordance with generally  accepted  auditing
standards,   the  financial  statements  included  in   Weyerhaeuser
Company's annual report to shareholders incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 7,
1995.   Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion  on
those  statements taken as a whole.  The schedule listed on page  14
is  the  responsibility of the company's management and is presented
for   purposes  of  complying  with  the  Securities  and   Exchange
Commission's   rules  and  is  not  part  of  the  basic   financial
statements.   This  schedule  has been  subjected  to  the  auditing
procedures  applied  in the audit of the basic financial  statements
and,  in  our  opinion, fairly states in all material  respects  the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation  to  the
basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Seattle, Washington,
February 7, 1995

                                   


                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES




                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES






                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant - Continued




    


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant - Continued



                                   
                                   


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 23
Consent of Independent Public Accountants




As   independent  public  accountants,  we  hereby  consent   to   the
incorporation of our reports included and incorporated by reference in
this   Form   10-K,  into  Weyerhaeuser  Company's  previously   filed
Registration  Statement No. 33-52789 on Form  S-3  and  Nos.  2-61042,
2-81463,  33-25928, 33-24385, 33-24979, 33-31622, 33-32605,  33-34460,
33-41414, 33-47392 and 2-88109 on Form S-8.



                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Seattle, Washington,
March 10, 1995

                                   
                                                                   


