
10-K


                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                        Washington, D.C.  20549
                                 FORM 10-K
                                     
                  X      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                         For  the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997 or

                         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934
                         
                         For the transition period from ______ to ________



                       Commission File Number 1-4825

                           WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY



   A Washington Corporation              (IRS Employer Identification
                                          No. 91-0470860)

                         Tacoma, Washington  98477
                         Telephone (253) 924-2345

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                          Name of Each Exchange on
Title of Each Class                           Which Registered
- -------------------------------           --------------------------
Common Shares ($1.25 par value)           Chicago Stock Exchange
                                          New York Stock Exchange
                                          Pacific Stock Exchange
                                          
Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant  (1)  has  filed  all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934 during the preceding 12 months  (or  for  such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past  90 days. Yes
_X_ No___.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant  to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will  not  be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive  proxy or  information
statements incorporated by reference in  Part  III  of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [  ].

As of February 27, 1998, 198,568,139 shares of the registrant's common
stock  ($1.25  par  value) were outstanding and the  aggregate  market
value  of  the  registrant's voting shares held by non-affiliates  was
approximately $9,915,996,441.

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                                     
Portions  of  the  Annual Report to Shareholders for the  fiscal  year
ended December 28, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV.

Portions  of  the  Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  and
Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III.



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries









Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business
- -----------------

Weyerhaeuser  Company (the company) was incorporated in the  state  of
Washington  in  January 1900 as Weyerhaeuser Timber  Company.   It  is
principally  engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber  and  the
manufacture,  distribution and sale of forest  products,  real  estate
development   and construction,  and  other  real   estate   related
activities.  Its business segments are timberlands and wood  products;
pulp, paper and packaging; and real estate and related assets.

Information with respect to the description and general development of the
company's business, included on pages 30 through 34,  Description of the
Business of the Company, contained in the company's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Financial  information with respect to industry segments, included  in Note
19  of Notes to Financial Statements contained in the  company's 1997
Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,  is  incorporated  herein by reference.

Timberlands and Wood Products

The  company  is  engaged in the management of 5.2  million  acres  of
company-owned and .2 million acres of leased commercial forestland  in the
United States (60% in the South and 40% in the Pacific Northwest), most  of
it highly productive and located extremely well to serve both domestic  and
international markets.  The company has,  additionally, long-term   license
arrangements  in  Canada  covering  approximately 23.7  million acres (of
which 16.5 million acres are considered to  be productive forestland).  The
combined total timber inventory on  these U.S.  and Canadian lands is
approximately 273 million cunits (a  cunit is  100  cubic  feet  of  solid
wood), of which approximately  75%  is softwood species.  The relationship
between cubic measurement and  the quantity  of  end  products that may be
produced  from  timber  varies according to the species, size and quality
of timber, and will  change through  time as the mix of these variables
changes.  To  sustain  the timber  supply  from its fee timberlands, the
company  is  engaged  in extensive   planting,   suppression   of
nonmerchantable    species, precommercial  and commercial thinning,
fertilization and  operational pruning,  all  of  which increase the yield
from  its  fee  timberland acreage.



                                     

Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- -----------------------------

The  company's  wood  products businesses produce  and  sell  softwood
lumber,  plywood and veneer; composite panels; oriented strand  board;
hardwood lumber and plywood; doors; treated products; logs; chips  and
timber.   These products are sold primarily through the company's  own
sales  organizations.   Building materials are  sold  to  wholesalers,
retailers and industrial users.

Sales volumes by major product class are as follows (millions):



Selected product prices:



                                     
                                     

Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- -----------------------------

Pulp, Paper and Packaging

The  company's  pulp, paper and packaging businesses  include:   Pulp,
which  manufactures  chemical wood pulp for world markets;  Newsprint,
which  manufactures  newsprint at the company's  North  Pacific  Paper
Corporation  mill and markets it to West Coast and Japanese  newspaper
publishers;  Paper, which manufactures and markets  a  range  of  both
coated  and uncoated fine papers through paper merchants and printers;
Containerboard   Packaging,   which   manufactures   linerboard    and
corrugating  medium,  which is primarily used  in  the  production  of
corrugated  packaging,  and manufactures and  markets  industrial  and
agricultural  packaging;  Paperboard, which manufactures  and  markets
bleached paperboard, used for production of liquid containers, to West
Coast  and  Pacific  Rim  customers;  Recycling,  which  operates   an
extensive wastepaper collection system and markets it to company mills and
worldwide  customers;  and Chemicals,  which  produces  chlorine, caustic
and  tall  oil, which are used principally by  the  company's pulp, paper
and packaging operations.

Sales volumes by major product class are as follows (thousands):


Selected product prices (per ton):



                                     
                                     

Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 1.  Business - Continued
- -----------------------------

Real Estate and Related Assets

The   company's   real  estate  and  related  assets  businesses   are
principally  engaged  in  real  estate  development  and  construction
through the company's real estate subsidiary, Weyerhaeuser Real Estate
Company,  and  in  other  real estate related activities  through  the
company's   financial  services  subsidiary,  Weyerhaeuser   Financial
Services,  Inc.  Development and construction consists  of  developing
single-family  housing and residential lots for  sale,  including  the
development of master-planned communities.

In  May  1997,  the  company's wholly owned  subsidiary,  Weyerhaeuser
Mortgage  Company  (WMC), was sold.  WMC was  the  principal  business
within  the financial services segment.  GNA Corporation, a subsidiary that
specialized in the sale of life insurance annuities  and  mutual funds  to
the customers of financial institutions, was sold in  April 1993.

With  the  sale of WMC, the financial services segment  is  no  longer
material  to  the results of the company.  Beginning  with  the  third
quarter,  the  remaining real estate activities in financial  services have
been  combined with real estate into one segment  entitled  real estate and
related assets.


Volume information:


(1) Includes one-half of joint venture sales.

                                     


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties
- -------------------

Timberlands and Wood Products

Facilities and annual production are summarized by major product class as
follows (millions):


Principal manufacturing facilities are located as follows:

Softwood lumber and plywood           Hardwood lumber
Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia,           Arkansas, Michigan, Oklahoma,
Louisiana, Mississippi,               Oregon, Pennsylvania,
North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,     Washington and Wisconsin
Washington and Alberta,
British Columbia and                  Hardwood doors
Saskatchewan, Canada                  Wisconsin

Composite panels
Georgia, North Carolina, Oregon
and Wisconsin

Oriented strand board
Michigan, North Carolina,
West Virginia and Alberta, Canada





Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties - Continued
- -------------------------------

Pulp, Paper and Packaging

Facilities and annual production are summarized by major product class as
follows (thousands):


Principal manufacturing facilities are located as follows:

Pulp                                 Containerboard
Georgia, Mississippi, North          North Carolina, Oklahoma and Oregon
Carolina, Washington and Alberta,
British Columbia and                 Packaging
Saskatchewan, Canada                 Arizona,  California,  Colorado,
                                     Connecticut,  Florida, Georgia,
Newsprint                            Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Washington                           Kentucky,   Maryland,  Michigan,
                                     Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
Paper                                Nebraska, New  Jersey, New York,
Mississippi, North Carolina,         North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon,
Washington, Wisconsin and            Tennessee, Texas, Virginia,
Saskatchewan, Canada                 Washington and Wisconsin

Paperboard                           Recycling
Washington                           Arizona,  California,  Colorado,
                                     Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas,
                                     Maryland,  Minnesota,  Nebraska,
                                     North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon,
                                     Tennessee, Texas,  Utah, Virginia,
                                     Washington and  West Virginia
                                     
                                     Chemicals
                                     Georgia,   Mississippi, North
                                     Carolina,  Oklahoma, Oregon  and
                                     Washington
                                     




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 2.  Properties - Continued
- -------------------------------

Real Estate and Related Assets

Single-family housing                   Commercial development
California, Maryland, Nevada,           California, Florida, Maryland
Texas, Virginia and Washington          and Washington

Residential land development            Real estate investments
Arkansas,  California,  Florida,        Arizona, California, Colorado,
Georgia, Maryland, Nevada, North        Nevada, Oregon and Washington
Carolina, Texas, Virginia and
Washington

Mortgage securities
California





Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
- --------------------------

Trial  began in May 1992 in a federal income tax refund case that  the
company  filed  in July 1989 in the United States Claims  Court.  The
complaint contended that the company overpaid federal income taxes  in 1977
through  1983.   The  alleged  overpayments  resulted  from  the
disallowance of certain timber casualty losses and certain  deductions
claimed  by the company arising from export transactions.  The  refund
sought was approximately $29 million, plus statutory interest from the
dates of the alleged overpayments.  The company settled the portion of the
case relating to export transactions and received a tax refund  of
approximately  $10  million, plus statutory  interest.   In  September
1994,  the  United  States Court of Federal Claims (successor  to  the
United  States  Claims Court) issued an opinion on the  casualty  loss
issues  which resulted in the allowance of additional tax  refunds  of
approximately $2 million, plus statutory interest.  Both  the  company and
the  government appealed the decision.  On August  2,  1996,  the Court  of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued its opinion  on  the remaining
timber casualty loss issues, ruling in favor of the  company on  both the
company's appeal and the government's appeal.  The United States Supreme
Court denied the government's request for certiorari on January  21,  1997.
On October 23, 1997, the United States  Court  of Federal  Claims entered a
judgment in favor of the company for  refund of  taxes  in  the amount of
$9 million plus statutory interest.  The company  has  received  a partial
refund of $7  million  in  tax  plus statutory  interest.  The government
filed an appeal on the  remaining $2  million  tax refund plus statutory
interest, but such  appeal  was withdrawn in January 1998.  The remaining
refund is being processed by the government.

On  March 6, 1992, the company filed a complaint in the Superior Court for
King County, Washington, against a number of insurance companies. The
complaint  sought  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  insurance companies
were  obligated to defend the company and to  pay,  on  the company's
behalf,  certain claims relating to  alleged  environmental damage  from
toxic substances to sites owned by third parties and  the company.  The
company subsequently agreed to settlements with all  but one  of the
defendants.  The remaining defendant provided first  layer excess coverage
during  a  three  year  period.   That  defendant's liability  on  groups
of sites is being tried in  three  phases.  Two trials against the
remaining defendant, affecting nine sites, began in October 1994 and
February 1996, respectively, and resulted in verdicts assigning  100
percent clean-up responsibility to  the  defendant  on three  sites,
partial responsibility on three others and a finding  of no liability as to
the remaining three.  With respect to the remaining sites,  a  voluntary
dismissal was taken on 6 sites, and on the  final 10  sites the defendant's
offer of judgment was accepted in June 1997. Final judgment for $7.8
million on the sites covered by the two trials was received on December 19,
1997.

The  company  conducted  a  review of its  10  major  pulp  and  paper
facilities  to  evaluate  the  facilities'  compliance  with   federal
Prevention  of  Significant  Deterioration  (PSD)  regulations.  The
results of the reviews were disclosed to seven state agencies and  the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) during 1994 and  1995.   At  the
Cosmopolis,  Washington,  Columbus,  Mississippi,  and  Flint   River,
Georgia,  facilities, the state regulatory agencies  agreed  with  the
company's conclusions regarding the status of each facility.  For  the
Cosmopolis  facility, the Washington Department of Ecology agreed  the
changes  made  at  the facility did not require PSD review.   For  the
Columbus and Flint River facilities, the states concluded the original PSD
permits  issued to the facilities require updating.  The  company will
update emissions data for the Columbus and Flint River facilities as part
of the Title V permitting process.  No penalties were assessed for  the
issues  identified at Columbus and Flint River.   Agreements resolving the
alleged PSD issues have been reached with the states  of Washington,
Oklahoma and North Carolina, as noted below.   No  issues were identified
at the company's Rothschild, Wisconsin, facility.  In April  1995,  EPA
Region X issued a Notice of Violation (NOV)  to  the company  and  to North
Pacific Paper Corporation  (NORPAC),  a  joint venture  in  which the
company currently has a 50  percent  ownership interest.   The  NOV
addresses alleged  PSD  violations  at  NORPAC's Longview,  Washington,
newsprint manufacturing facility.  A settlement resolving  alleged  PSD
issues  at the  Longview/NORPAC  complex  was reached  with  the  State  of
Washington  on  January  26,  1996.  On November  14,  1995,  the company
entered into a settlement  with  the State  of  Oklahoma to resolve alleged
PSD violations at the company's Valliant,   Oklahoma,  containerboard
manufacturing  facility.  The company also entered into Special Orders by
Consent with the State  of North  Carolina to resolve alleged PSD issues at
the New  Bern,  North Carolina,  pulp mill and the Plymouth, North
Carolina, pulp and  paper complex.    No  decision  has been  made by the
Lane  County  Oregon Regional  Air Pollution Control Authority concerning
alleged  PSD  and permit violations at the company's Springfield, Oregon,
containerboard manufacturing facility.



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings - Continued
- --------------------------------------

The Washington Department of Ecology issued a $10 thousand penalty  to the
company  because  of  three accidental  chlorine  releases  which occurred
at  the company's pulp mill in Longview on March  18,  1996, which has been
paid.  The EPA is also investigating.

The  Washington  Department of Ecology has issued  a  NOV  and  a  $40
thousand  penalty  because  of an accidental  spill  of  an  estimated
8,700 gallons of crude sulfate turpentine on January 27, 1997, at  the
company's  pulp  and paper operations in Longview.   The  penalty  was
paid.  The EPA investigated the January incident.  EPA and the company are
negotiating a possible settlement of an EPA enforcement action.

On June 20, 1996, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR)
issued  a NOV for alleged air violations at the Marshfield, Wisconsin, wood
products manufacturing facility.  No penalty was assessed in  the NOV.  The
NOV  was referred to the Wisconsin Department  of  Justice (WDOJ)  for
enforcement action on July 2, 1996.  The company  settled with WDNR in
September 1997 and paid a $65 thousand penalty.

On  October  2, 1996, the WDNR conducted an inspection of  a  building
demolition  project  at the company's Marshfield, Wisconsin  facility. The
WDNR  noted several potential non-compliance issues in  the  work performed
by  the asbestos abatement subcontractor retained  for  the project.   Upon
learning of the issues observed by WDNR,  the  company removed the asbestos
abatement subcontractor from the plantsite.  The WDNR  and  EPA Region V
are reviewing the work performed  to  evaluate whether  an enforcement
action should be brought against the  asbestos abatement subcontractor, the
general contractor, and/or the company.

In  November 1996, an action was filed against the company in Superior
Court  for King County, Washington, on behalf of a purported class  of all
individuals and entities that own property in the United States on which
exterior hardboard siding manufactured by the company has  been installed
since 1980.  The action alleges the company has manufactured and
distributed  defective hardboard siding and has breached  express
warranties  and consumer protection statutes in its sale of  hardboard
siding.  The action seeks compensatory damages, including prejudgment
interest, and seeks damages for the cost of replacing siding that rots
subsequent to the entry of any judgment.  In January 1997,  an  action was
filed,  also  in Superior Court for King County,  Washington,  on behalf
of  a  purported  class  of all individuals,  proprietorships,
partnerships, corporations, and other business entities in the  United
States on whose homes, condominiums, apartment complexes or commercial
buildings  hardboard  siding manufactured by  the  company  has  been
installed.   The action alleges the company has breached  express  and
implied  warranties  in  its sale of hardboard siding  and  also  has
violated the Consumer Protection Act of the State of Washington.  The
action  seeks  damages,  prejudgment interest,  costs  and reasonable
attorney fees.  In December 1997, the two cases were consolidated  for the
purpose  of  discovery and resolution of the class certification issue.
Also, in December 1997, the plaintiffs in the first of the two cases  filed
a motion to change the trial date and for leave  to move for  class
certification.  In January 1998,  the  court  denied  this motion.   This
case was settled for approximately $11 thousand and dismissed in March
1998.  The second case is currently set for trial in May 1998 without class
certification.  The company is a  defendant in approximately eighteen other
hardboard siding  cases, two  of  which purport to be class actions on behalf
of purchasers of single- or multi-family  residences  that  contain  the
company's hardboard siding, one in Nebraska and one in Iowa.

On  August  7,  1997,  the company entered  a  plea  of  guilty  to  a
misdemeanor  violation of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act  in  the  U.S.
District  Court,  Western  District of  Washington,  at  Tacoma.   The
misdemeanor violation involved the accidental poisoning of a hawk  and an
owl  in  the  course  of starling pest control  at  the  company's
Longview,  Washington, pulp mill.  The company and the  Department  of
Justice  agreed to a disposition of the misdemeanor which involved  an
undertaking  by  the  company to conduct a starling  control  research
project at its Longview mill.

In  December  1997,  the Oklahoma Department of Environmental  Quality
issued a NOV for alleged failure to comply with audit requirements for a
bark  boiler  at  the company's Valliant, Oklahoma,  containerboard
manufacturing facility.  No penalty was specified.



Weyerhaueser Company and Subsidiaries

PART I



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings - Continued
- --------------------------------------

The  company  is also a party to various proceedings relating  to  the
clean-up   of   hazardous   waste  sites   under   the   Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, commonly  known as
"Superfund," and similar state laws.  The EPA and/or various state agencies
have  notified  the company that it  may  be  a  potentially responsible
party with respect to other hazardous waste sites  as  to which  no
proceedings have been instituted against the company.   The company   is
also  a  party  to  other  legal  proceedings  generally incidental to its
business.  Although the final outcome of  any  legal proceeding  is subject
to  a  great many  variables  and  cannot  be predicted with any degree of
certainty, the company presently believes that  any  ultimate outcome
resulting  from  the  legal  proceedings discussed  herein, or all of them
combined, would not have a  material effect  on  the  company's current
financial  position,  liquidity  or results  of operations; however, in any
given future reporting period, such  legal  proceedings could have a
material effect  on  results  of operations.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------------------------------------------------------------

There  were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders  during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997.



Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART II



Item  5.   Market  Price of and Dividends on the  Registrant's  Common
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
- --------------------------------------

Information  with  respect  to  market information,  stockholders  and
dividends included in Notes 20 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in
the  company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
- --------------------------------

Information  with  respect  to selected  financial  data  included  in Note
21 of Notes to Financial Statements in the company's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Results of Operations
- ---------------------

Information  with  respect  to Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis
included  on pages 1 and 18-40 contained in the company's 1997  Annual
Report to Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Information
- -----------------------------------------------------------

Financial statements and supplementary information, contained  in  the
company's  1997 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated  herein by
reference:


Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Disclosure
- --------------------

Not applicable.





Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART III



Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------------------------------

Information with respect to Directors of the company included on pages 1
through 4 of the Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders  and
Proxy  Statement  dated  March  9,  1998  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

The executive officers of the company are as follows:



Item 11.  Executive Compensation
- --------------------------------

Information with respect to executive compensation included on pages 5
through  16  of the Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders  and
Proxy  Statement  dated  March  9,  1998  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

Item  12.   Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners   and
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Management
- ----------

Information  with respect to security ownership of certain  beneficial
owners and management included on pages 5 and 6 of the Notice of  1998
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement dated March 9, 1998 is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- --------------------------------------------------------

Information   with  respect  to  certain  relationships  and   related
transactions included on pages 20 and 21 of the Notice of 1998  Annual
Meeting  of  Shareholders and Proxy Statement dated March 9,  1998  is
incorporated herein by reference.





Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

PART IV



Item  14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial Statements

The  consolidated financial statements of the company,  together  with the
report  of  independent  public  accountants,  contained  in  the company's
1997  Annual Report to Shareholders,  are  incorporated  in Part II, Item 8
of this Form 10-K by reference.



All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
not  applicable or the required information is  included  in  the
consolidated financial statements, or the notes thereto, contained  in the
company's  1997  Annual Report to Shareholders  and  incorporated herein by
reference.

Exhibits:

       3  -  (i)   Articles of Incorporation
             (ii)  Bylaws
      10  -  Material Contracts
             (a) Agreement with N. E. Johnson (incorporated by reference
                 to 1992 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 12, 1993-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (b) Agreement with W. R. Corbin (incorporated by reference to
                 1992 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 12, 1993-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (c) Agreement with R. C. Gozon (incorporated  by reference to
                 1995 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 15, 1996-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (d) Agreement with S. R. Rogel
     11   -  Statement Re: Computation of Per Share Earnings
                (incorporated  by  reference  to  Note  2  of  the   1997
                Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Report to Shareholders)
     13   -  Portions of the 1997 Weyerhaeuser Company Annual
             Report  to  Shareholders  specifically  incorporated   by
             reference herein
     22   -  Subsidiaries of the Registrant
     23   -  Consent of Independent Public Accountants
     27   -  Financial Data Schedules

Reports on Form 8-K

The   registrant  filed  reports  on  Form  8-K  dated   January   22,
February  24,  April 15, May 23, June 19, July 1,  July  9,  July  11, July
17,  September  4, and October 15, 1997 and  January  23,  1998,
respectively, reporting information under Item 5, Other Events.




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

SIGNATURES



Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized  on
March 13, 1998.


                           Weyerhaeuser Company


                            /s/ Steven R. Rogel
                           ---------------------
                             Steven R. Rogel
                             President


Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on  behalf of the
registrant in the capacities indicated on March 13, 1998.

/s/ Steven R. Rogel                  /s/ P. M. Hawley
- ------------------------------       ---------------------------
Steven R. Rogel                      Philip M. Hawley
President, Principal Executive       Director
Officer and Director
                                     /s/ Martha R. Ingram
                                     ---------------------------
/s/ George H. Weyerhaeuser           Martha R. Ingram
- ------------------------------       Director
George H. Weyerhaeuser
Chairman of the Board and            /s/ John Kieckhefer
Director                             ---------------------------
                                     John I. Kieckhefer
/s/ William C. Stivers               Director
- ------------------------------
William C. Stivers                   /s/Donald F. Mazankowski
Principal Financial Officer          ---------------------------
                                     Donald F. Mazankowski
/s/ Kenneth J. Stancato              Director
- ------------------------------
Kenneth J. Stancato                  /s/ William D. Ruckelshaus
Principal Accounting Officer         ---------------------------
                                     William D. Ruckelshaus
/s/ John W. Creighton, Jr.           Director
- ------------------------------
John W. Creighton, Jr.               /s/ Richard H. Sinkfield
Director                             ----------------------------
                                     Richard H. Sinkfield
/s/ W. John Driscoll                 Director
- ------------------------------      
W. John Driscoll                     /s/ James N. Sullivan
Director                             ----------------------------
                                     James N. Sullivan
                                     Director




Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



Report  of  Independent  Public  Accountants  on  Financial  Statement
Schedules

To Weyerhaeuser Company:

We  have  audited  in  accordance with generally  accepted  auditing
standards,   the  financial  statements  included  in   Weyerhaeuser
Company's annual report to shareholders incorporated by reference in this
Form   10-K,  and  have  issued  our  report  thereon   dated February 11,
1998.  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion  on those
statements taken as a whole.  The schedule  listed on  page 15 is the
responsibility of the company's management and is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's   rules  and  is
not  part  of  the  basic   financial statements.   This  schedule  has
been  subjected  to  the  auditing procedures  applied  in the audit of the
basic financial  statements and,  in  our  opinion, fairly states in all
material  respects  the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation  to  the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Seattle, Washington,
February 11, 1998






Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES







Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibits Index



Exhibits:

       3  -  (i)   Articles of Incorporation
             (ii)  Bylaws
      10  -  Material Contracts
             (a) Agreement with N. E. Johnson (incorporated by reference
                 to 1992 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 12, 1993-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (b) Agreement with W. R. Corbin (incorporated by reference to
                 1992 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 12, 1993-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (c) Agreement with R. C. Gozon (incorporated  by reference to
                 1995 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
                 Commission on March 15, 1996-Commission File Number
                 1-4825)
             (d) Agreement with S. R. Rogel
     11   -  Statement Re: Computation of Per Share Earnings
                (incorporated  by  reference  to  Note  2  of  the   1997
                Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Report to Shareholders)
     13   -  Portions of the 1997 Weyerhaeuser Company Annual
             Report  to  Shareholders  specifically  incorporated   by
             reference herein
     22   -  Subsidiaries of the Registrant
     23   -  Consent of Independent Public Accountants
     27   -  Financial Data Schedules

                                     


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant




                                     


Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant - Continued








Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 22
Subsidiaries of the Registrant - Continued











Weyerhaeuser Company and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 23
Consent of Independent Public Accountants




As   independent  public  accountants,  we  hereby  consent   to   the
incorporation of our reports included and incorporated by reference in this
Form   10-K,  into  Weyerhaeuser  Company's  previously filed Registration
Statement No. 333-36753  on Form S-3  and Nos. 33-60527,  33-60529, 33-60521,
33-60525, 33-25928, 33-24979, 33-47392, 333-10165, 33-41414, 2-88109, 2-27929,
2-58498, 2-81463 and 333-01565 on Form S-8.



                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Seattle, Washington,
March 13, 1998


                                     
                                     
                                     


