ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



(a)General Development of Business

PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company
which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.



(b)Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

Information about the Company’s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears on page 82 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference.



(c)Narrative Description of Business

The Company has three principal industry segments, (1) design, manufacture and distribution of light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks,
(2) distribution of parts for the truck aftermarket and related commercial vehicles, and (3) finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. Light and medium-duty trucks have a gross vehicle weight (GVW)
ranging from 16,000 to 33,000 lbs (Class 5 to 7) in North America and 6 to 16 metric tonnes in Europe. Heavy duty trucks have a GVW of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8) in North America and over 16 metric tonnes in Europe. The
Company’s finance and leasing activities are principally related to Company products and associated equipment. The Company’s Other business is the manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches.

TRUCKS

The Company and its subsidiaries
design and manufacture heavy, medium and light duty diesel trucks which are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in
Australia, Canada and Mexico, are used world-wide for over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products, construction and other materials. The Company competes in the North American Class 5 - 7 markets
primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Ste. Therese, Canada and in Mexicali, Mexico, which are operated by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries located in those countries. The
Company competes in the European light/medium market with DAF cab-over-engine trucks assembled in the United Kingdom by Leyland, one of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries. The Company is constructing a new DAF assembly plant in Ponta
Grossa, Brasil and expects to begin manufacturing DAF vehicles for sale in Brasil and other South American countries in late 2013. Commercial trucks comprise the largest segment of the Company’s business, accounting for 77% of total 2012 net
sales and revenues.

Substantially all trucks are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and Peterbilt nameplates are marketed and
distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is marketed and distributed worldwide by a
foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is incidental to Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR
operates.

The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical research and testing, treasury and
finance functions. Some manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on various factors. As a result of the close similarity of the business
models employed by each nameplate, best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a routine basis.






The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I.,
for its European light-duty product line pursuant to a joint product development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated revenues in 2012. A short-term loss of supply,
and the resulting interruption in the production of these trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of time would either require the Company to
contract for an alternative source of supply or to manufacture cabs itself.

Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any
single source for any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on production of certain products. No significant shortages of materials or components were
experienced in 2012. Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.

Key
factors affecting Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company’s sales of new trucks is dependent on the size of the truck markets served and the
Company’s share of those markets. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical related to the level of overall economic activity, the availability of capital and the amount of freight being transported. The Company’s costs for
trucks sold consist primarily of material costs which are influenced by commodities prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the unit cost
of purchased materials and finished components. The Company’s spending on research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as the periodic need to meet diesel engine emissions standards in the
various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

There are four principal competitors in the U.S. and Canada commercial truck market. The Company’s share of the U.S. and Canadian Class 8 market was 28.9% of retail sales in 2012. In






Europe, there are six principal competitors in the commercial truck market, including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in the United States. In 2012, DAF had a 16.0% share of
the Western and Central European heavy-duty market and a 11.5% share of the light/medium market. These markets are highly competitive in price, quality and service, and PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no
significant seasonal variations in sales.

The Peterbilt, Kenworth and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important
role in the marketing of the Company’s truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

The Company’s truck products are subject to environmental noise and emission regulations and competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying
with noise and emission regulations will not be detrimental to its business.

The Company had a total production backlog of $3.4 billion
at the end of 2012. Within this backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within three months (90 days) are considered to be firm. The 90-day backlog approximated $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, $2.6 billion
at December 31, 2011, and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2010. Production of the year end 2012 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2013.

PARTS

The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and
related commercial vehicles in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Mexico and South America. Aftermarket truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through the Company’s fifteen parts distribution centers
(PDC). Parts are primarily purchased from various suppliers and also manufactured by the Company. Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. As a percentage of total
consolidated net sales and revenues, parts sales were 16% in 2012.

Key factors affecting Parts segment earnings include the aftermarket parts
sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. Aftermarket parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company’s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. To reflect the benefit the Parts
segment receives from the Truck segment, certain factory overhead, research and development, engineering and selling, general and administrative expenses are allocated from the Truck segment to the Parts segment. The Company’s cost for parts
sold consist primarily of material costs which are influenced by commodities prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the cost of parts
sold. The Company maintains rigorous control of Selling, General and Administrative expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

OTHER
BUSINESSES

Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures industrial winches in two U.S. plants and markets them
under the Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial winches were approximately 1% of net sales and revenues in
2012, 2011 and 2010.

The Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized internationally and play an important role in
the marketing of those products.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) operates in 23 countries principally in North America, Europe, Australia and South America through wholly owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial trade
name. PFS also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly owned subsidiaries in North America and Germany under the PacLease trade name. Selected






dealers in North America are franchised to provide full service leasing. PFS provides its franchisees equipment financing and administrative support. PFS also operates full service lease outlets
on its own behalf. PFS’s retail loan and lease customers consist of small, medium and large commercial trucking companies, independent owner/operators and other businesses that purchased their trucks principally from PACCAR’s
independent dealers.

The Company’s finance receivables are classified as wholesale, dealer retail and customer retail segments. Customer
retail receivables are further segregated between fleet (customer retail accounts operating more than five trucks) and owner/operator (all other customer retail accounts) classes. Each individual class has similar measurement attributes, risk
characteristics and common methods to monitor and assess credit risk. The wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing to PACCAR dealers. The customer retail segment consists of loans and leases directly to customers for the acquisition
of commercial vehicles and related equipment. The dealer retail segment consists of loans and leases to participating dealers and franchises that use the proceeds to fund customers’ acquisition of commercial vehicles and related equipment.

Receivables are secured by the products financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts vary with the type and usage of equipment
but generally range from three to five years. Payment is required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans generally mature within
one to two years.

The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance receivables and
borrowings in the capital markets. The primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in the public markets and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. An additional source of funds is loans from
other PACCAR companies.

PFS funds its financing activities primarily through commercial paper, bank loans and by issuing medium-term debt
through public debt markets. PFS attempts to match the maturity and interest rate characteristics of its debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and leases.

Key factors affecting the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and leases, the yield earned on the loans and leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and
leases and the ability to collect the amounts owed to PFS. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF and the share of those truck sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment.
Finance market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. PFS’s competitors primarily include banks and independent finance and leasing companies.

The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of PFS to differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service.
Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail loan and lease contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. PFS obtains funds either through fixed
rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of interest rate contracts. This enables PFS to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate
contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on operating leases. The amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the amount of leased equipment, and the average
term of the lease which generally range from three to five years and residual values which generally range from 30 to 50%. The margin earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation
including interest and depreciation.

PFS incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance
lease contracts. PFS takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business in order to minimize credit losses and the related provision for losses.






Financial Services Selling General and Administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and servicing the
Company’s loan and lease portfolios. These costs vary somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities tend to be relatively stable.

PATENTS

The Company owns numerous
patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the Company’s
business.

REGULATION

As a
manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as well as environmental laws
and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in Canada, Mexico, Australia and Europe. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements to do business in the United States and Europe. The
Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations.

Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company’s capital and operating expenditures and the
Company’s involvement in environmental cleanup activities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference in Items 7 and 8, respectively.

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 21,800 employees.

OTHER
DISCLOSURES

The Company’s filings on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and any amendments to those reports can be found on the
Company’s websitewww.paccar.comfree of charge as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the Company’s website is not
incorporated by reference into this report.






