ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

(a) General
Development of Business

PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the
successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.

(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

Information about the Company’s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of
Regulation S-K appears on page 74 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

The Company has two principal industry
segments, (1) design, manufacture and distribution of light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks and related aftermarket parts and (2) finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. Light and medium-duty trucks
have a gross vehicle weight (GVW) ranging from 16,000 to 33,000 lbs (Class 5 to 7) in North America and 6 to 15 metric tonnes in Europe. Heavy duty trucks have a GVW of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8 market) in North America and over 15 metric tonnes in
Europe. The Company’s finance and leasing activities are principally related to Company products and associated equipment. Other manufactured products include industrial winches.

TRUCKS

The Company and its subsidiaries design and manufacture heavy-duty
diesel trucks which are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Australia, Canada and Mexico, are used world-wide for
over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products, construction and other materials. The Company competes in the North American Class 5 - 7 markets primarily with conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities
in Ste. Therese, Canada and in Mexicali, Mexico, which are operated by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries located in those countries. The Company competes in the European light/medium market with DAF cab-over-engine trucks assembled in the
United Kingdom by Leyland, one of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries. Commercial trucks and related aftermarket parts comprise the largest segment of the Company’s business, accounting for 89.7% of total 2010 net sales and
revenues.

Substantially all trucks and related aftermarket parts are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and Peterbilt
nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is marketed and
distributed by a foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands. A U.S. division, PACCAR International, also markets all three nameplates outside each of their primary markets. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is
incidental to Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR operates.






The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical
research and testing, treasury and finance functions. Certain manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate in common production facilities, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on
various factors. As a result of the close similarity of the business models employed by each nameplate, best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a routine basis.

Raw materials and other components used in the
manufacture of trucks are purchased from a number of suppliers. The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty product line pursuant to a joint product
development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated revenues in 2010. A short-term loss of supply, and the resulting interruption in the production of these
trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of time would either require the Company to contract for an alternative source of supply or to
manufacture cabs itself. Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any single source for any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on
production of certain products. No significant shortages of materials or components were experienced in 2010. Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.

Aftermarket truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through the Company’s parts distribution
network. Parts are both manufactured by the Company and purchased from various suppliers. Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. As a percentage of total
consolidated net sales and revenues, parts sales were 21.3% in 2010, 23.4% in 2009, and 15.1% in 2008.

Key factors
affecting Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks and aftermarket parts sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company’s sales of new trucks is dependent on the size of the truck markets served and
the Company’s share of those markets. Aftermarket parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company’s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical
related to the level of overall economic activity, the






availability of capital and the amount of freight being transported. The Company’s cost per truck and parts sold consist primarily of material costs which are influenced by commodities
prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the unit cost of purchased materials and finished components. The Company’s spending on
research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as the periodic need to meet diesel engine emissions standards in the various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of Selling,
General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

There were three other principal competitors
in the U.S. and Canada Class 8 truck market in 2010. The Company’s share of the U.S. and Canadian market was 24.1% of retail sales in 2010. In Europe there were five other principal competitors in the commercial vehicle market in 2010,
including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in the United States. In 2010, DAF had a 15.2% share of the Western and Central European heavy-duty market and a 7.7% share of the light/medium market. These markets are highly competitive
in price, quality and service, and PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations in sales.

The Peterbilt, Kenworth, and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the Company’s truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of
trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

The Company’s truck products are subject to
environmental noise and emission regulations and competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying with noise and emission regulations will not be detrimental to its business.

The Company had a total production backlog of $3.5 billion at the end of 2010. Within this backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within
three months (90 days) are considered to be firm. The 90-day backlog approximated $2.0 billion at December 31, 2010, $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and $0.8 billion at December 31, 2008. Production of the year-end 2010
backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2011.

OTHER BUSINESS

The Truck and Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures industrial winches in two U.S. plants and markets them
under the Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial winches were approximately 1% of net sales and
revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008.

The Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized
internationally and play an important role in the marketing of those products.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

In North America, Australia and 16 European countries, the Company provides financing and leasing arrangements, principally for its
manufactured trucks, through wholly owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial trade name. They provide inventory financing for independent dealers selling PACCAR products, and retail loan and lease financing for new and used
trucks and other transportation equipment sold principally by its independent dealers. Receivables are secured by the products financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts vary with the type and usage of equipment but generally range
from three to five






years. Payment is required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans generally
mature within one to two years.

The Company also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly owned subsidiaries
in North America and Germany under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North America are franchised to provide full service leasing. The Company provides its franchisees equipment financing and administrative support. The Company also
operates full service lease outlets on its own behalf.

The Company funds its financing activities primarily through
commercial paper, bank loans and by issuing medium-term debt through public debt markets. The Company attempts to match the maturity and interest rate characteristics of the debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and
leases.

Key factors in determining the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and leases,
the yield earned on the loans and leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and leases and the ability to collect the amounts owed to the Company. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by the Company and the
share of those truck sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment. Finance market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. The Company’s competitors primarily include banks and independent finance
and leasing companies.

The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of
the Company to differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service. Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail
loan and lease contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. The Company obtains funds either through fixed rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of
interest rate contracts. This enables the Company to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on
operating leases. The amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the amount of leased equipment, and the average term of the lease which ranges from two to four years and residual values which generally range from 30 to 50%.
The margin earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation including interest and depreciation.

The Company incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance lease contracts. The Company takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business
in order to minimize credit losses and the related provision for losses. Retail loan and lease customers consist of medium and large commercial trucking companies, independent owner operators and other businesses that use trucks in their operations.
The ability of these customers to pay their obligations to the Company depends on the state of the general economy, the extent of freight demand, freight rates and the cost of fuel. The Company limits its exposure to any one customer, with no one
customer amounting to more than 2% of the aggregate portfolio. The Company generally requires a down payment and secures its interest in the underlying truck equipment collateral and may include other collateral or personal guarantees. In the event
of default, the Company will repossess the vehicle and sell it in the open market primarily through its dealer network. The Company will take legal means to recover any shortfall between the amounts owed and the amounts recovered from sale of the
collateral. The amount of credit losses depends on the rate of default on loans and finance leases and, in the event of repossession, the ability to recover the amount owed from sale of the collateral which is affected by used truck






prices. The Company’s experience over the last fifty years financing truck sales has been that periods of economic weakness result in higher past dues and increased rates of repossession.
Used truck prices tend to fall during periods of economic weakness. As a result, credit losses tend to increase during those periods. The Company provides an allowance for credit losses based on specifically identified customer risks and an analysis
of estimated losses inherent in the portfolio, considering the amount of past due accounts, the trends of used truck prices and the economic climate in each of its markets.

Financial Services selling general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and servicing the Company’s loan and lease portfolios. These cost vary
somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities tend be relatively stable.

PATENTS

The Company
owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the
Company’s business.

REGULATION

As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration as well as environmental laws and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in Canada, Mexico, Australia and Europe. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements
to do business in the United States and Europe. The Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations.

Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have
on the Company’s capital and operating expenditures and the Company’s involvement in environmental cleanup activities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Items 7 and 8, respectively.

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 17,700 employees.

OTHER DISCLOSURES

The Company’s filings on Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K
and any amendments to those reports can be found on the Company’s website www.paccar.com free of charge as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.



