ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



(a)General Development of Business

PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company
which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.



(b)Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

Information about the Company’s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears in Item 8, Note R, of this Form 10-K.



(c)Narrative Description of Business

PACCAR is a multinational company operating in three principal industry segments: (1) the Truck segment includes the design,
manufacture and distribution of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks; (2) the Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles; and (3) the Financial Services
segment includes finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. Light and medium-duty trucks have a gross vehicle weight (GVW) ranging from 16,000 to 33,000 lbs (Class 5 to 7) in North America and 6 to 16 metric tonnes
in Europe. Heavy duty trucks have a GVW of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8) in North America and over 16 metric tonnes in Europe. PACCAR’s finance and leasing activities are principally related to PACCAR products and associated equipment.
PACCAR’s Other business is the manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches.

TRUCKS

PACCAR’s trucks are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States,
three in Europe and one each in Australia, Canada, Mexico and Brasil, are used worldwide for over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products, construction and other materials. PACCAR competes in the North AmericanClass 5 - 7markets primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Ste. Therese, Canada and in Mexicali, Mexico, which are operated by
PACCAR’s wholly owned subsidiaries located in those countries. PACCAR competes in the European light/medium market with DAF cab-over-engine trucks assembled in the United Kingdom by Leyland, one of PACCAR’s wholly owned subsidiaries.
PACCAR completed construction of its new 300,000 square-foot DAF assembly facility in Ponta Grossa, Brasil in October 2013. Brasil is a major truck market with industry sales above six tonnes in 2013 of 149,000 units. During the fourth quarter of
2013, DAF began truck production in Brasil. Commercial truck manufacturing comprises the largest segment of PACCAR’s business and accounts for 76% of total 2013 net sales and revenues.

Substantially all trucks are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and Peterbilt nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The
Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is marketed and distributed worldwide by a foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands and is also marketed and
distributed by a foreign subsidiary in Brasil. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is incidental to PACCAR’s Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR
operates.

The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical research and testing, treasury and
finance functions. Some manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on various factors. As a result of the close similarity of the business
models employed by each nameplate, best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a routine basis.

The Company’s trucks
have a reputation for high quality and are essentially custom products, most of which are ordered by dealers according to customer specification. Some units are ordered by dealers for stocking to meet the needs of certain customers who require
immediate delivery or for customers that require chassis to be fitted with specialized bodies. For a significant portion of the Company’s truck operations, major components, such as engines, transmissions







heavy-duty

The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty
product line pursuant to a joint product development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated revenues in 2013. A short-term loss of supply, and the resulting
interruption in the production of these trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of time would either require the Company to contract for an
alternative source of supply or to manufacture cabs itself.

Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any single source for
any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on production of certain products. No significant shortages of materials or components were experienced in 2013.
Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules, and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.

Key factors affecting
Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company’s sales of new trucks is dependent on the size of the truck markets served and the Company’s share of
those markets. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical related to the level of overall economic activity, the availability of capital and the amount of freight being transported. The Company’s costs for trucks sold consist primarily
of material costs which are influenced by commodities prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the unit cost of purchased materials and
finished components. The Company’s spending on research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as the periodic need to meet diesel engine emissions and vehicle fuel efficiency standards in
the various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

There are four principal competitors in the U.S. and Canada commercial truck market. The Company’s share of the U.S. and Canadian Class 8 market was 28.0% of retail sales in 2013. In Europe, there
are six principal competitors in the commercial truck market, including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in the United States. In 2013, DAF had a record 16.2% share of the Western and Central European heavy-duty market and a record
11.8% share of the light/medium market. These markets are highly competitive in price, quality and service. PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations in sales.

The Peterbilt, Kenworth and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the Company’s truck
products. The Company engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

The
Company’s truck products are subject to environmental noise and emission regulations. Competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying with noise and emission regulations will not be
detrimental to its business.

The Company had a total production backlog of $4.0 billion at the end of 2013. Within this backlog, orders
scheduled for delivery within three months (90 days) are considered to be firm.The 90-daybacklog approximated $2.0 billion at December 31, 2013, $1.4 billion at
December 31, 2012, and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2011. Production of the year end 2013 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2014.







PARTS

The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Mexico and South America. Aftermarket truck parts are
sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through the Company’s 16 strategically located parts distribution centers (PDCs). Parts are primarily purchased from various suppliers and also manufactured by the Company.
Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. The Parts segment accounted for 16% of total 2013 net sales and revenues.

During 2013, PACCAR completed construction of a new 280,000 square-foot parts PDC in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, established a PDC in Ponta Grossa,
Brasil, and doubled the warehouse space in its Lancaster, Pennsylvania PDC.

Key factors affecting Parts segment earnings include the
aftermarket parts sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. Aftermarket parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company’s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. To reflect the
benefit the Parts segment receives from costs incurred by the Truck segment, certain factory overhead, research and development, engineering and SG&A expenses are allocated from the Truck segment to the Parts segment. The Company’s cost for
parts sold consist primarily of material costs which are influenced by commodities prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the cost of
parts sold. The Company maintains rigorous control of SG&A expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

OTHER BUSINESSES

Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures industrial winches in two U.S. plants and markets them under the Braden, Carco, and
Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive, and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial winches were approximately 1% of net sales and revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011.

The Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of
those products.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) operates in 23 countries in North America, Europe, Australia and South America through wholly owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial trade name. PFS
also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly owned subsidiaries in North America and Germany under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North America are franchised to provide full service leasing. PFS provides its
franchisees equipment financing and administrative support. PFS also operates full service lease outlets on its own behalf. PFS’s retail loan and lease customers consist of small, medium and large commercial trucking companies, independent
owner/operators and other businesses that purchased their trucks principally from PACCAR’s independent dealers.

The Company’s
finance receivables are classified as dealer wholesale, dealer retail and customer retail segments. The dealer wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing to PACCAR dealers. The dealer retail segment consists of loans and leases to
participating dealers and franchises that use the proceeds to fund customers’ acquisition of commercial vehicles and related equipment. The customer retail segment consists of loans and leases directly to customers for the acquisition of
commercial vehicles and related equipment. Customer retail receivables are further segregated between fleet and owner/operator classes. The fleet class consists of customer retail accounts operating more than five trucks. All other customer retail
accounts are considered owner/operator. Each individual class has similar measurement attributes, risk characteristics and common methods to monitor and assess credit risk.

Receivables are secured by the products financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts vary with the type and usage of equipment but generally range from three to five years. Payment is
required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan, whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans generally mature within one to two years.

The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance receivables and borrowings in the capital markets. The
primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in the public markets and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. An additional source of funds is loans from other PACCAR companies. PFS attempts to
match the maturity and interest rate characteristics of its debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and leases.







Key factors affecting the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and
leases, the yield earned on the loans and leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and leases and the ability to collect the amounts owed to PFS. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by Kenworth, Peterbilt
and DAF and the share of those truck sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment. Finance market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. PFS’s competitors primarily include banks and independent
finance and leasing companies.

The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of PFS to
differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service. Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail loan and lease
contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. PFS obtains funds either through fixed rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings, a portion of which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of interest rate
contracts. This enables PFS to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on operating leases. The
amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the amount of leased equipment, and the average term of the lease which generally range from three to five years and residual values which generally range from 30 to 50%. The margin
earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation, including interest and depreciation.

PFS incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance lease contracts. PFS takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business in order to
minimize credit losses and the related provision for losses.

Financial Services SG&A expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and
servicing the Company’s loan and lease portfolios. These costs vary somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities tend to be relatively stable.

PATENTS

The Company owns numerous
patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the Company’s
business.

REGULATION

As a
manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as well as environmental laws
and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in Canada, Mexico, Australia, Brasil and Europe. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements to do business in the United States and Europe.
The Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations.

Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company’s capital and operating expenditures and the
Company’s involvement in environmental cleanup activities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Items 7 and 8,
respectively.







EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 21,800 employees.

OTHER
DISCLOSURES

The Company’s filings onForms 10-K,10-Qand8-Kand any amendments to those reports can be found on the Company’s websitewww.paccar.comfree of charge as soon as practicable after the report
is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, our reports filed with the SEC can be found atwww.sec.gov. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by
reference into this report.



