ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation incorporated on
    May 7, 1928, is a service organization engaged in the
    distribution of automotive replacement parts, industrial
    replacement parts, office products and electrical/electronic
    materials. In 2009, business was conducted throughout the United
    States, in Canada and in Mexico from approximately 2,000
    locations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company employed
    approximately 29,000 persons.



As used in this report, the “Company” refers to
    Genuine Parts Company and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise
    indicated by the context; and the terms “automotive
    parts” and “industrial parts” refer to
    replacement parts in each respective category.



Financial Information about
    Segments.For financial information regarding
    segments as well as our geographic areas of operation, refer to
    “Segment Data” and to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements beginning on page F-1.



Available Information.The
    Company’s internet website can be found at www.genpt.com.
    The Company makes available, free of charge through its internet
    website, access to the Company’s annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,proxy statement and other reports, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”). Additionally, our corporate governance
    guidelines, codes of conduct and ethics, and charters of the
    Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance
    Committee of our Board of Directors, as well as information
    regarding our director nominating process and our procedure for
    shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with
    our Board of Directors, are available on our website.



In Part III of thisForm 10-K,we incorporate certain information by reference to our proxy
    statement for our 2010 annual meeting of shareholders. We expect
    to file that proxy statement with the SEC on or about
    February 26, 2010, and we will make it available online at
    the same time athttp://www.proxydocs.com/gpc.Please refer to the proxy statement when it is available.



AUTOMOTIVE
    PARTS GROUP



The Automotive Parts Group, the largest division of the Company,
    distributes automotive replacement parts and accessory items.
    The Company is the largest member, with approximately 95%
    ownership, of the National Automotive Parts Association
    (“NAPA”), a voluntary trade association formed in 1925
    to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts. In
    addition to over 400,000 available part numbers, the Company, in
    conjunction with NAPA, offers complete inventory, cataloging,
    marketing, training and other programs in the automotive
    aftermarket.







The Company has a 15% interest in Mitchell Repair Information
    (“MRIC”), a subsidiary of Snap-on Incorporated. MRIC
    is a leading automotive diagnostic and repair information
    company with over 40,000 North American subscribers linked to
    its services and information databases. MRIC’s core
    product, “Mitchell ON-DEMAND,” is a premier electronic
    repair information source in the automotive aftermarket.



The Company’s NAPA automotive parts distribution centers
    distribute replacement parts (other than body parts) for
    substantially all motor vehicle makes and models in service in
    the United States, including imported vehicles, trucks, SUVs,
    buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and farm vehicles. In
    addition, the Company distributes replacement parts for small
    engines, farm equipment and heavy duty equipment. The
    Company’s inventories also include accessory items for such
    vehicles and equipment, and supply items used by a wide variety
    of customers in the automotive aftermarket, such as repair
    shops, service stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck
    dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass
    merchandisers, farms, industrial concerns and individuals who
    perform their own maintenance and parts installation. Although
    the Company’s domestic automotive operations purchase from
    more than 90 different suppliers, approximately 52% of 2009
    automotive parts inventories were purchased from 10 major
    suppliers. Since 1931, the Company has had return privileges
    with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from
    inventory obsolescence.



Distribution System.In 2009, the
    Company operated 58 domestic NAPA automotive parts distribution
    centers located in 39 states and approximately 1,000
    domestic company-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located in
    43 states. At December 31, 2009, Genuine Parts Company
    owned either a noncontrolling or controlling interest in two
    corporations, which operated approximately 19 auto parts stores
    in two states, and a subsidiary corporation operating three
    distribution centers in three states.



NAPA Canada/UAP, founded in 1926, is a Canadian leader in the
    distribution and marketing of replacement parts and accessories
    for automobiles and trucks. NAPA Canada/UAP employs
    approximately 3,600 people and operates a network of 12
    distribution centers supplying approximately 588 NAPA stores and
    104 Traction wholesalers. Traction is a supplier of parts to
    small and large fleet owners and operators and, together with
    NAPA stores, is a significant supplier to the mining and
    forestry industries. These include approximately
    208 company owned stores, 25 joint venture or progressive
    owners in which NAPA Canada/UAP owns a 50% interest and
    approximately 459 independently owned stores. NAPA and Traction
    operations supply bannered installers and independent installers
    in all provinces of Canada, as well as networks of service
    station and repair shops operating under the banners of national
    accounts. UAP is a licensee of the
    NAPA®name in Canada.



In Canada, Altrom Canada Corp. operates 15 import automotive
    parts distribution centers. In the United States, Altrom America
    operates two import automotive parts distribution centers.



In Mexico, Auto Todo owns and operates nine distribution
    centers, four auto parts stores and four tire centers. Auto Todo
    is a licensee of the
    NAPA®name in Mexico.



The Company’s domestic distribution centers serve
    approximately 4,800 independently owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores
    located throughout the market areas served in the United States.
    NAPA AUTO PARTS stores, in turn, sell to a wide variety of
    customers in the automotive aftermarket. Collectively, these
    independent automotive parts stores account for approximately
    26% of the Company’s total sales with no automotive parts
    store or group of automotive parts stores with individual or
    common ownership accounting for more than 0.25% of the total
    sales of the Company.



Products.Distribution centers have
    access to over 400,000 different parts and related supply items.
    Each item is cataloged and numbered for identification and
    accessibility. Significant inventories are carried to provide
    for fast and frequent deliveries to customers. Most orders are
    filled and shipped the same day as received. The majority of
    sales are on terms that require payment within 30 days of
    the statement date. The Company does not manufacture any of the
    products it distributes. The majority of products are
    distributed under the
    NAPA®name, a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA. Traction sales
    also include products distributed under the HD Plus name, a
    proprietary line of automotive parts for the heavy duty truck
    market.



Related Operations.In 2009, the
    Company increased its ownership interest in Balkamp from 89.6%
    to 100%. Balkamp distributes a wide variety of replacement parts
    and accessory items for passenger cars, heavy-duty vehicles,
    motorcycles and farm equipment. In addition, Balkamp distributes
    service items such as testing





equipment, lubricating equipment, gauges, cleaning supplies,
    chemicals and supply items used by repair shops, fleets, farms
    and institutions. Balkamp packages many of the 45,000 products,
    which constitute the “Balkamp” line of products that
    are distributed to the members of NAPA. These products are
    categorized into over 230 different product groups purchased
    from approximately 600 domestic suppliers and 100 foreign
    manufacturers. In addition, Balkamp operates two Redistribution
    Centers that provide NAPA with over 1,200 SKUs of oils,
    chemicals and procurement items.
    BALKAMP®,

    a federally registered trademark, is important to the sales and
    marketing promotions of the Balkamp organization. Balkamp has
    four distribution centers located in Indianapolis and
    Plainfield, Indiana, Greenwood, Mississippi and West Jordan,
    Utah.



The Company, through its Rayloc division, also operates three
    facilities where certain small automotive parts are rebuilt or
    distributed to the members of NAPA under the
    NAPA®brand name.
    Rayloc®is a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA.



The Company’s Heavy Vehicle Parts Group operates as TW
    Distribution, with one warehouse location in Atlanta, Georgia,
    which serves 24 Traction Heavy Duty parts stores, of which 16
    are owned and located in the United States. This group
    distributes heavy vehicle parts through the NAPA system and
    direct to small fleet owners and operators.



Segment Data.In the year ended
    December 31, 2009, sales from the Automotive Parts Group
    were approximately 52% of the Company’s net sales, as
    compared to 48% in 2008 and 49% in 2007. For additional segment
    information, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning onpage F-1.



Service to NAPA AUTO PARTS Stores.The
    Company believes that the quality and the range of services
    provided to its automotive parts customers constitute a
    significant advantage for its automotive parts distribution
    system. Such services include fast and frequent delivery,
    obsolescence protection, parts cataloging (including the use of
    electronic NAPA AUTO PARTS catalogs) and stock adjustment
    through a continuing parts classification system which allows
    independent retailers (“jobbers”) to return certain
    merchandise on a scheduled basis. The Company offers its NAPA
    AUTO PARTS store customers various management aids, marketing
    aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost
    analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement
    benefit plans, as well as marketing conferences and seminars,
    sales and advertising manuals and training programs. Point of
    sale/inventory management is available through
    TAMS®(Total Automotive Management Systems), a computer system
    designed and developed by the Company for the NAPA AUTO PARTS
    stores.



In association with NAPA, the Company has developed and refined
    an inventory classification system to determine optimum
    distribution center and auto parts store inventory levels for
    automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations,
    usage rates, production statistics, technological advances and
    other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous
    analytical review, is an integral part of the Company’s
    inventory control procedures and comprises an important feature
    of the inventory management services that the Company makes
    available to its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers. Over the last
    10 years, losses to the Company from obsolescence have been
    insignificant and the Company attributes this to the successful
    operation of its classification system, which involves product
    return privileges with most of its suppliers.



Competition.The automotive parts
    distribution business is highly competitive. The Company
    competes with automobile manufacturers (some of which sell
    replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as
    well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers,
    warehouse clubs and large automotive parts retail chains. In
    addition, the Company competes with the distributing outlets of
    parts manufacturers, oil companies, mass merchandisers,
    including national retail chains, and with other parts
    distributors and retailers. Further information regarding
    competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”



NAPA.The Company is a member of the
    National Automotive Parts Association, a voluntary association
    formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive
    replacement parts. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive
    parts, functions as a trade association whose members in 2009
    operated 64 distribution centers located throughout the United
    States, 58 of which were owned and operated by the Company. NAPA
    develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its
    members. It is not involved in the chain of distribution.





Among the automotive lines that each NAPA member purchases and
    distributes are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised
    and promoted as “NAPA” lines. The members are not
    required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so
    designated and may, and do, purchase competitive lines from
    other supply sources.



The Company and the other NAPA members use the federally
    registered trademark
    NAPA®as part of the trade name of their distribution centers and
    parts stores. The Company contributes to NAPA’s national
    advertising program, which is designed to increase public
    recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines.



The Company is a party, together with other members of NAPA and
    NAPA itself, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District
    Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent
    decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust
    laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with
    manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of
    territories among several NAPA members, fixing of prices or
    terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements
    to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or
    determining the number and location of, or arrangements with,
    auto parts customers.



INDUSTRIAL
    PARTS GROUP



The Industrial Parts Group, operated as Motion Industries, Inc.
    (“Motion”), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. Motion distributes
    MRO (maintenance, repair, and operation) industrial replacement
    parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical power
    transmission, industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and
    pneumatic components, industrial supplies and material handling
    products throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.



In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries
    (Canada), Inc. (“Motion Canada”) and the Mexican
    market is served by Motion Mexico S de RL de CV (“Motion
    Mexico”). Both organizations operate in the Company’s
    North American structure



In 2009, the Company acquired General Tool and Supply with six
    locations and it is a supplier of industrial parts and supplies
    in the United States.



As of December 31, 2009, the Industrial Parts Group served
    more than 120,000 customers in all types of industries located
    throughout North America, including the food, forest products,
    primary metal, paper, mining, automotive, petrochemical and
    pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted
    specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater
    treatment facilities, wind power generation, solar power,
    government projects, pipelines, railroad, ports, and others.
    Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with
    access to a database of 4.1 million parts.



This group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies,
    achieved through inventory management and logistical solutions
    coupled with Motion Industries’ vast product knowledge and
    system capabilities. The Company meets the MRO demand of a large
    and fragmented market with high levels of service in the areas
    of asset management, inventory and logistics management, product
    application and utilization management processes. A highly
    developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and customer
    connectivity are enhanced by Motion’s leadinge-businesscapabilities, such as MiSupplierConnect, which provides
    integration between the Company’s information technology
    network and suppliers’ systems, creating numerous benefits
    for both the supplier and customer.



Distribution System.In North America,
    the Industrial Parts Group operates 458 branches, 7 distribution
    centers and 36 service centers as of December 31, 2009. The
    distribution centers stock and distribute more than 80,000
    different items purchased from more than 460 different
    suppliers. The service centers provide hydraulic, hose and
    mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 38% of 2009
    total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major
    suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts
    Group’s branches located in 47 states, Puerto Rico,
    nine provinces in Canada, and Mexico. Each branch has warehouse
    facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory
    representative of the products used by customers in the
    respective market area served.



Products.The Industrial Parts Group
    distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its
    customers, primarily industrial concerns, to maintain and
    operate plants, machinery and equipment. Products include such
    items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains,
    gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and





industrial supplies. In recent years, Motion expanded its
    offering to include systems and automation products in response
    to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process
    automation for full systems integration of plant equipment.
    Manufacturing trends and government policies have led to
    opportunities in the “green” and energy-efficient
    product markets, leading to product offerings such as
    energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and
    environmentally friendly parts and supplies. The nature of this
    group’s business demands the maintenance of adequate
    inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery
    requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are
    installed by the customer or used in plant and facility
    maintenance activities. Most orders are filled immediately from
    existing stock and deliveries are normally made within
    24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are
    on open account.



Supply Agreements.Non-exclusive
    distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial
    Parts Group’s suppliers. The terms of these agreements
    vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial
    Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such
    agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until
    terminated by mutual consent. The Company has return privileges
    with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from
    inventory obsolescence.



Additionally, Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with
    existing customers that represent approximately 40% of the
    annual sales volume.



Segment Data.In the year ended
    December 31, 2009, sales from the Company’s Industrial
    Parts Group approximated 29% of the Company’s net sales, as
    compared to 32% in 2008 and 31% in 2007. For additional segment
    information, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning onpage F-1.



Competition.The industrial parts
    distribution business is highly competitive. The Industrial
    Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the
    distribution of such items, general line distributors and others
    who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial
    Parts Group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to
    the customer. Further information regarding competition in the
    industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”



OFFICE
    PRODUCTS GROUP



The Office Products Group, operated through S. P. Richards
    Company (“S. P. Richards”), a wholly owned subsidiary
    of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. S. P.
    Richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad
    line of office and other business related products that are used
    in the daily operation of businesses, schools, offices and
    institutions. Office products fall into the general categories
    of computer supplies, imaging products, office furniture, office
    machines, general office products, school supplies, cleaning and
    breakroom supplies, and healthcare products.



The Office Products Group is represented in Canada through S. P.
    Richards Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and
    is headquartered near Toronto, Ontario. S. P. Richards Canada
    services office product resellers throughout Canada from
    locations in Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.



Distribution System.The Office
    Products Group distributes more than 50,000 items to nearly
    6,000 business product resellers throughout the United States
    and Canada from a network of 43 distribution centers. The 2008
    acquisition of Action/Emco Wholesale allowed for the
    consolidation of the Detroit facility into the larger, more
    state of the art facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The Company
    also eliminated operational expenses by closing its Hartford
    distribution center. This was achieved by incorporating the
    business serviced out of the facility into the New York and
    Boston distribution centers. In 2009, the Company accelerated
    the installation of new pick to voice technology in its
    distribution centers and will have largely completed that
    rollout by year end 2010. This network of strategically located
    distribution centers provides overnight delivery of the
    Company’s comprehensive product offering. Approximately 45%
    of the Company’s 2009 total office products purchases were
    made from 10 major suppliers.



The Office Products Group sells strictly to resellers of office
    products. These resellers include independently owned office
    product dealers, national office product superstores and mass
    merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies,
    Internet resellers and college bookstores. Resellers are offered
    comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and
    electronic catalogs and flyers, electronic content for reseller
    websites, and education and training resources.





Products.The Office Products Group
    distributes computer supplies including storage media, printer
    supplies and computer accessories; office furniture including
    desks, credenzas, chairs, chair mats, partitions, files and
    computer furniture; office machines including telephones,
    answering machines, calculators, fax machines, multi-function
    copiers, printers, digital cameras, laminators and shredders;
    general office supplies including desk accessories, business
    forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report
    covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper,
    mailroom supplies, drafting supplies and audiovisual supplies;
    school supplies including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art
    supplies; healthcare products; janitorial supplies including
    cleaning supplies, paper towels and trash can liners; and
    breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and
    beverages. S. P. Richards has return privileges with most of its
    suppliers, which has protected the Company from inventory
    obsolescence.



While the Company’s inventory includes products from over
    400 of the industry’s leading manufacturers worldwide, S.
    P. Richards also markets ten proprietary brands of items. These
    brands include:
    SPARCOtm,

    an economical line of office supply basics;
    Compucessory®,

    a line of computer accessories;
    Lorelltm,

    a line of office furniture; NATURE
    SAVER®,

    an offering of recycled products; Elite
    Image®,

    a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium
    papers and labels;
    Integratm,

    a line of writing instruments; Genuine
    Joe®,

    a line of cleaning and breakroom products; and Atlantic
    Breezetmand Heat
    Runnertm,

    two lines of climate control products; and Business
    Sourcetm,

    a line of basic office supplies available only to independent
    resellers.



Segment Data.In each of the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales from the
    Company’s Office Products Group were approximately 16% of
    the Company’s net sales. For additional segment
    information, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth beginning onpage F-1.



Competition.The office products
    distribution business is highly competitive. In the distribution
    of its product offering to resellers, S. P. Richards competes
    with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain
    manufacturers of office products. Further information regarding
    competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the
    Industries in Which We Do Business.”



ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC
    MATERIALS GROUP



The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group was formed on
    July 1, 1998 through the acquisition of EIS, Inc.
    (“EIS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
    headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. This Group distributes
    materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic
    manufacturers in North America. With 36 branch locations in the
    United States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and
    Canada, this Group distributes over 100,000 items, from
    insulating and conductive materials to assembly tools and test
    equipment. EIS also has three manufacturing facilities that
    provide custom fabricated parts.



Distribution System.The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group provides distribution
    services to original equipment manufacturers, motor repair shops
    and assembly markets. EIS actively utilizes itsE-commerceInternet site to present its products to customers while
    allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a
    large product assortment.



Electrical and electronic products are distributed from
    warehouse locations in major user markets throughout the United
    States, as well as in Mexico and Canada. The Company has return
    privileges with some of its suppliers, which has protected the
    Company from inventory obsolescence.



Products. The Electrical/Electronic Materials
    Group distributes a wide variety of products to customers from
    over 350 vendors. These products include custom fabricated
    flexible materials that are used as components within a
    customer’s manufactured finished product in a variety of
    market segments. Among the products distributed and fabricated
    are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, insulating
    and shielding materials, assembly tools, test equipment,
    adhesives and chemicals, pressure sensitive tapes, solder,
    anti-static products and thermal management products. To meet
    the prompt delivery demands of its customers, this Group
    maintains large inventories. The majority of sales are on open
    account. Approximately 45% of 2009 total Electrical/Electronic
    Materials Group purchases were made from 10 major suppliers.



Integrated Supply.The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group’s integrated supply
    programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater
    number of customers — especially national
    accounts — are given the opportunity





to participate in this low-cost, high-service capability. The
    Group developed AIMS (Advanced Inventory Management System), a
    totally integrated, highly automated solution for inventory
    management. The Group’s Integrated Supply offering also
    includes SupplyPro, an electronic vending dispenser used to
    eliminate costly tool cribs, or in-house stores, at customer
    warehouse facilities.



Segment Data.In the year ended
    December 31, 2009, sales from the Company’s
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group approximated 3% of the
    Company’s net sales, as compared to 4% in 2008 and 2007.
    For additional segment information, see Note 11 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth beginning onpage F-1.



Competition. The electrical and electronics
    distribution business is highly competitive. The
    Electrical/Electronic Materials Group competes with other
    distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and
    electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser
    extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. Further
    information regarding competition in the industry is set forth
    in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face
    Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do
    Business.”



