ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation incorporated on May 7, 1928, is a service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive replacement parts, industrial replacement parts, office
products and electrical/electronic materials through our four operating segments, each described in more detail below. In 2013, business was conducted from approximately 2,600 locations throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and, effective
April 1, 2013, Australia and New Zealand. As of December 31, 2013, the Company employed approximately 37,500 persons.

As used in this report, the “Company” refers to Genuine Parts Company and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context; and the terms “automotive parts” and
“industrial parts” refer to replacement parts in each respective category.

Financial Information about
Segments.For financial information regarding segments as well as our geographic areas of operation, refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning onpage F-1.

Available Information.The
Company’s internet website can be found at www.genpt.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its internet website, access to the Company’s annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and any amendments to these documents, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, our corporate governance guidelines, codes of conduct and ethics, and charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, as well as
information regarding our procedure for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with our Board of Directors, are available on our website.

In Part III of this Form 10-K, we incorporate certain information by reference to our proxy statement for our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders. We expect to file that proxy statement with the
SEC on or about February 27, 2014, and we will make it available online at the same time at http://www.proxydocs.com/gpc. Please refer to the proxy statement for the information incorporated by reference into Part III of this From 10-K when it
is available.

AUTOMOTIVE PARTS GROUP

The Automotive Parts Group, the largest division of the Company, distributes automotive parts and accessory items. In addition to nearly 450,000 available part numbers, the Company offers complete
inventory, cataloging, marketing, training and other programs in the automotive aftermarket. The Company, as a result of its acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts Co. in May 2012, is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association
(“NAPA”), a voluntary trade association formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts.

During 2013, the Company’s Automotive Parts Group included NAPA automotive parts distribution centers and automotive parts stores
(“auto parts stores” or “NAPA AUTO PARTS stores”) owned and operated in the United States by the Company; NAPA and Traction automotive parts distribution centers and auto parts stores in the United States and Canada owned and
operated by the Company and NAPA Canada/UAP Inc. (“NAPA Canada/UAP”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; auto parts stores and distribution centers in the United States operated by corporations in which the Company owned either a
noncontrolling or controlling interest; auto parts stores in Canada operated by corporations in which UAP owns a 50% interest; import automotive parts distribution centers in the United States owned by the Company and operated by its Altrom America
division; import automotive parts distribution centers in Canada owned and operated by Altrom Canada Corporation (“Altrom Canada”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; distribution centers in the United States owned by Balkamp, Inc.
(“Balkamp”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; distribution facilities in the United






Index to Financial Statements

States owned by the Company and operated by its Rayloc division; and automotive parts distribution centers and automotive parts stores in Mexico, owned and operated by Grupo Auto Todo, S.A. de
C.V. (“Auto Todo”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

In addition, effective April 1, 2013, the Company
completed the purchase of the remaining 70% stake of Exego Group, subsequently renamed GPC Asia Pacific, for approximately $590 million (USD), net of cash acquired of $70 million, and the assumption of approximately $230 million (USD) in net debt.
The purchase was funded using a combination of cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities. The Company had previously purchased a 30% stake in GPC Asia Pacific on January 1, 2012 for approximately $166 million (USD) in cash.
GPC Asia Pacific, headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, is a leading aftermarket distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in Australasia, with annual revenues of approximately $1.1 billion (USD) and a company-owned store
footprint of 460 locations across Australia and New Zealand. In 2012, the Company accounted for this investment under the equity method of accounting.

The Company has a 15% interest in Mitchell Repair Information (“MRIC”), a subsidiary of Snap-on Incorporated. MRIC is a leading automotive diagnostic and repair information company with over
40,000 North American subscribers linked to its services and information databases. MRIC’s core product, “Mitchell ON-DEMAND”, is a premier electronic repair information source in the automotive aftermarket.

The Company’s NAPA automotive parts distribution centers distribute replacement parts (other than body parts) for substantially all
motor vehicle makes and models in service in the United States, including imported vehicles, trucks, SUVs, buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and farm vehicles. In addition, the Company distributes replacement parts for small engines, farm
equipment and heavy duty equipment. The Company’s inventories also include accessory items for such vehicles and equipment, and supply items used by a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket, such as repair shops, service
stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass merchandisers, farms, industrial concerns and individuals who perform their own maintenance and parts installation. Although the Company’s
domestic automotive operations purchase from approximately 100 different suppliers, approximately 50% of 2013 automotive parts inventories were purchased from 10 major suppliers. Since 1931, the Company has had return privileges with most of its
suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence.

Distribution
System.In 2013, the Company operated 62 domestic NAPA automotive parts distribution centers located in 41 states and approximately 1,100 domestic company-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located in 46 states. At
December 31, 2013, the Company owned either a noncontrolling or controlling interest in six corporations, which operated approximately 114 auto parts stores in nine states.

NAPA Canada/UAP, founded in 1926, is a Canadian leader in the distribution and marketing of replacement parts and
accessories for automobiles and trucks. NAPA Canada/UAP employs approximately 3,800 people and operates a network of 12 distribution centers supplying approximately 594 NAPA stores and 104 Traction wholesalers. Traction is a supplier of parts
to small and large fleet owners and operators and, together with NAPA stores, is a significant supplier to the mining and forestry industries. The NAPA stores and Traction wholesalers in Canada include approximately 187 company owned stores, 12
joint ventures and 28 progressive owners in which NAPA Canada/UAP owns a 50% interest and approximately 471 independently owned stores. NAPA and Traction operations supply bannered installers and independent installers in all provinces of Canada, as
well as networks of service stations and repair shops operating under the banners of national accounts. UAP is a licensee of the NAPA®name in Canada.

In Canada, Altrom Canada
operates 13 import automotive parts distribution centers. In the United States, Altrom America operates two import automotive parts distribution centers.

In Mexico, Auto Todo owns and operates 11 distribution centers, four auto parts stores and four tire centers. Auto Todo is a licensee of the NAPA®name in Mexico.

In Australia and New
Zealand, GPC Asia Pacific is leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories. GPC Asia Pacific operates eight distribution centers, 399 Repco stores and 61 branches associated with the Ashdown Ingram, Motospecs and McLeod
operations.






Index to Financial Statements

The Company’s domestic distribution centers serve approximately 4,900 independently
owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located throughout the United States. NAPA AUTO PARTS stores, in turn, sell to a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket. Collectively, these independent automotive parts stores account for approximately
65% of the Company’s total U.S. Automotive sales and 24% of the Company’s total sales, with no automotive parts store or group of automotive parts stores with individual or common ownership accounting for more than 0.25% of the total sales
of the Company.

Products.Distribution centers have access to over
446,000 different parts and related supply items. Each item is cataloged and numbered for identification and accessibility. Significant inventories are carried to provide for fast and frequent deliveries to customers. Most orders are filled and
shipped the same day as they are received. The majority of sales are paid from statements with varied terms and conditions. The Company does not manufacture any of the products it distributes. The majority of products are distributed under the NAPA®name, a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA, which is important to the sales and marketing of these products.
Traction sales also include products distributed under the HD Plus name, a proprietary line of automotive parts for the heavy duty truck market.

Related Operations.Balkamp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, distributes a wide variety of replacement parts and accessory items for passenger cars,
heavy-duty vehicles, motorcycles and farm equipment. In addition, Balkamp distributes service items such as testing equipment, lubricating equipment, gauges, cleaning supplies, chemicals and supply items used by repair shops, fleets, farms and
institutions. Balkamp packages many of the 45,000 products, which constitute the “Balkamp” line of products that are distributed through the NAPA system. These products are categorized into over 175 different product categories purchased
from approximately 450 domestic suppliers and over 100 foreign manufacturers. Balkamp has two distribution centers located in Plainfield, Indiana, and West Jordan, Utah. In addition, Balkamp operates two redistribution centers that provide the NAPA
system with over 1,100 SKUs of oils and chemicals. BALKAMP®, a federally registered trademark, is important to
the sales and marketing promotions of the Balkamp organization.

The Company, through its Rayloc division,
operates four facilities where certain small automotive parts are distributed through the NAPA system under the
NAPA®brand name. Rayloc®is a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA.

The Company’s Heavy Vehicle Parts Group operates as TW Distribution, with one warehouse location in Atlanta, Georgia, which serves 22
Traction Heavy Duty parts stores in the United States, of which 14 are company-owned and eight are independently owned. This group distributes heavy vehicle parts through the NAPA system and direct to small fleet owners and operators.

Segment Data.In the year ended December 31, 2013, sales from the Automotive Parts Group were
approximately 53% of the Company’s net sales, as compared to 49% in 2012 and 2011. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1.

Service to NAPA AUTO PARTS Stores.The Company believes that the quality and the
range of services provided to its automotive parts customers constitute a significant advantage for its automotive parts distribution system. Such services include fast and frequent delivery, parts cataloging (including the use of electronic NAPA
AUTO PARTS catalogs) and stock adjustment through a continuing parts classification system which, as initiated by the Company from time to time, allows independent retailers (“jobbers”) to return certain merchandise on a scheduled basis.
The Company offers its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers various management aids, marketing aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement benefit plans, as well as marketing
conferences and seminars, sales and advertising manuals and training programs. Point of sale/inventory management is available through TAMS®(Total Automotive Management Systems), a computer system designed and developed by the Company for the NAPA AUTO PARTS stores.

The Company, has developed and refined an inventory classification system to determine optimum distribution center and auto parts store
inventory levels for automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations, usage rates, production statistics, technological advances and other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous analytical review, is an integral part of
the Company’s inventory control procedures and






Index to Financial Statements

comprises an important feature of the inventory management services that the Company makes available to its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers. Over the last 20 years, losses to the Company
from obsolescence have been insignificant and the Company attributes this to the successful operation of its classification system, which involves product return privileges with most of its suppliers.

Competition.The automotive parts distribution business is highly competitive. The Company competes
with automobile manufacturers (some of which sell replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers, warehouse clubs and large automotive parts retail chains. In addition,
the Company competes with the distributing outlets of parts manufacturers, oil companies, mass merchandisers, including national retail chains, and with other parts distributors and retailers. The Automotive Parts Group competes primarily on product
offering, service, brand recognition and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.”

NAPA.The Company is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association, a
voluntary association formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association whose sole member in 2013 owned and operated 62 distribution centers
located throughout the United States. NAPA develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its members which, at December 31, 2013, includes only the Company. It is not involved in the chain of distribution.

Among the automotive lines within the NAPA system that the Company purchases and distributes are certain lines designated, cataloged,
advertised and promoted as “NAPA” lines. The Company is not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so designated and may, and does, purchase competitive lines from other supply sources.

The Company uses the federally registered trademark NAPA®as part of the trade name of its distribution centers and parts stores. The Company contributes to NAPA’s national advertising program, which is designed to
increase public recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines.

The Company is a party, together with the
former members of NAPA, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements
with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among the Company and former NAPA members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting
parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers.

INDUSTRIAL PARTS GROUP

The Industrial Parts Group is operated as Motion Industries, Inc. (“Motion”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. Motion distributes industrial replacement parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission, industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and pneumatic components,
industrial supplies and material handling products to MRO (maintenance, repair and operation) and OEM (original equipment manufacturer) customers throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.

In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries (Canada), Inc. (“Motion Canada”). The Mexican market is served
by Motion Mexico S de RL de CV (“Motion Mexico”). These organizations operate in the Company’s North American structure.

In 2013, the Industrial Parts Group served more than 150,000 customers in all types of industries located throughout North America, including the food and beverage, forest products, primary metal, pulp
and paper, mining, automotive, oil and gas, petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater treatment facilities, wind power generation, solar power, government
projects, pipelines, railroad, ports, and others. Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with access to a database of 5.6 million parts. Additionally, Motion provides U.S. government agencies access to approximately 600,000
products and replacement parts through a Government Services Administration (GSA) schedule.






Index to Financial Statements

In the fourth quarter of 2013, Motion made two strategic acquisitions. Effective
October 26, 2013, Motion acquired the stock of AST Bearings LLC (“AST”), with facilities in Montville, New Jersey and Irvine, California. AST is an industrial distributor specializing in high-precision, miniature and specialty
bearings, bushings and related services, with annual revenues of approximately $35 million. Effective December 2, 2013, Motion acquired the assets of Paragon Service & Supply, Inc. (“Paragon”), located in Lima, Ohio. Paragon
is a distributor of industrial cutting tools, abrasives and metal-working equipment, with approximately $15 million in annual revenues.

Effective January 31, 2014, Motion Canada acquired Commercial Solutions Inc. (“CSI”), which at that time was a public company traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
“CSA”. CSI’s shares were delisted following the acquisition. Headquartered in Edmonton, Alberta, CSI is an independent national distributor of industrial supplies, including bearings and power transmission products, complete solutions
for drilling rigs and industrial and safety supplies. Its customers represent a broad cross-section of industries and are served from 22 locations across Canada and one in the U.S. CSI is expected to generate approximately $100 million in annual
revenues.

The Industrial Parts Group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies achieved through inventory management
and logistical solutions coupled with Motion’s vast product knowledge and system capabilities. The Company meets the MRO demand of a large and fragmented market with high levels of service in the areas of asset management, inventory and
logistics management, product application and utilization management processes. A highly developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and customer connectivity are enhanced by Motion’s leading e-business capabilities, such as
MiSupplierConnect, which provides integration between the Company’s information technology network and suppliers’ systems, creating numerous benefits for both the supplier and customer.

Distribution System.In North America, the Industrial Parts Group operated 511 branches, 15
distribution centers and 42 service centers as of December 31, 2013. The distribution centers stock and distribute more than 240,000 different items purchased from more than 1,100 different suppliers. The service centers provide hydraulic, hose
and mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 34% of 2013 total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts Group’s branches located in 49 states, Puerto Rico, nine
provinces in Canada, and Mexico. Each branch has warehouse facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory representative of the products used by customers in the respective market area served.

Products.The Industrial Parts Group distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its
customers, primarily industrial concerns. Products include such items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains, gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and industrial supplies. In recent years, Motion expanded its
offering to include systems and automation products in response to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process automation for full systems integration of plant equipment. Manufacturing trends and government policies have led to
opportunities in the “green” and energy-efficient product markets, focusing on product offerings such as energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and environmentally friendly parts and supplies. The nature of this group’s
business demands the maintenance of adequate inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are installed by the customer or used in plant and facility maintenance activities.
Most orders are filled immediately from existing stock and deliveries are normally made within 24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are on open account. Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with existing customers that
represent approximately 50% of the annual sales volume.

Supply Agreements.Non-exclusive
distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial Parts Group’s suppliers. The terms of these agreements vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such
agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until terminated by mutual consent. Motion has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from inventory obsolescence.

Segment Data.In the year ended December 31, 2013, sales from the Company’s Industrial
Parts Group approximated 31% of the Company’s net sales, as compared to 34% in 2012 and 33% in 2011. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1.






Index to Financial Statements

Competition.The industrial parts distribution business
is highly competitive. The Industrial Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of such items, general line distributors and others who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial Parts Group
competes with manufacturers that sell directly to the customer. The Industrial Parts Group competes primarily on the breadth of product offerings, service and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in
“Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.”

OFFICE
PRODUCTS GROUP

The Office Products Group, operated through S. P. Richards Company (“S. P. Richards”), a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. S. P. Richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad line of office and other business related products through a diverse customer base of resellers. These
products are used in homes, businesses, schools, offices, and other institutions. Office products fall into the general categories of computer supplies, imaging products, office furniture, office machines, general office products, school supplies,
cleaning, janitorial, sanitation and breakroom supplies, safety and security items, healthcare products and disposable food service products.

The Office Products Group is represented in Canada through S. P. Richards Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered near Toronto, Ontario. S. P. Richards Canada services office
product resellers throughout Canada from locations in Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.

Effective
February 1, 2014, S. P. Richards acquired the assets of Garland C. Norris Company, Inc. (“GCN”), headquartered in Apex, North Carolina. GCN is a regional wholesale distributor of food service disposables and janitorial and cleaning
supplies, with annual revenues of approximately $35 million.

Distribution System.The
Office Products Group distributes more than 55,000 items to over 4,300 resellers and distributors throughout the United States and Canada from a network of 41 distribution centers. This group’s network of strategically located distribution
centers provides overnight delivery of the Company’s comprehensive product offering. Approximately 47% of the Company’s 2013 total office products purchases were made from 10 major suppliers.

The Office Products Group sells to a wide variety of resellers. These resellers include independently owned office product dealers,
national office product superstores and mass merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies, Internet resellers, college bookstores, military base stores, office furniture dealers, value-added technology resellers, business machine
dealers, janitorial and sanitation supply distributors, safety product resellers and food service distributors. Resellers are offered comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and electronic catalogs and flyers, electronic content for
reseller websites, and education and training resources. In addition, market analytics programs are made available to qualified resellers.

Products.The Office Products Group distributes computer supplies including storage media, printer supplies and computer accessories; office furniture including desks,
credenzas, chairs, chair mats, partitions, file cabinets and computer furniture; office machines including telephones, answering machines, calculators, fax machines, multi-function copiers, printers, digital cameras, televisions, laminators and
shredders; general office supplies including desk accessories, business forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper, mailroom and shipping supplies, drafting supplies and
audiovisual supplies; school supplies including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art supplies; healthcare products including exam room supplies and accessories; janitorial and cleaning supplies; safety supplies; disposable food service products;
and breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and beverages. S. P. Richards has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence.

While the Company’s inventory includes products from nearly 600 of the industry’s leading manufacturers
worldwide, S. P. Richards also markets products under its eight proprietary brands. These brands include:
Sparcotm, an economical line of office supply basics;
Compucessory®, a line of computer accessories; Lorelltm, a line of office furniture; NatureSaver®, an offering of recycled products; Elite
Image®, a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium papers and labels; Integratm, a line of writing instruments; Genuine Joe®, a line






Index to Financial Statements

of cleaning and breakroom products; and Business Source®,
a line of basic office supplies available only to independent resellers. Through the Company’s
FurnitureAdvantagetmprogram, S. P. Richards provides
resellers with an additional 11,000 furniture items made available to consumers in 7 to 10 business days.

Segment
Data.In the year ended December 31, 2013, sales from the Company’s Office Products Group approximated 12% of the Company’s net sales, as compared to 13% in 2012 and 14% in 2011. For additional segment
information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1.

Competition.The office products distribution business is highly competitive. In the distribution of
its product offering to resellers, S. P. Richards competes with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain manufacturers of office products. S. P. Richards competes primarily on price, product offerings, service, marketing programs
and brand recognition. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.”

ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC MATERIALS GROUP

The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group was formed on July 1, 1998 through the acquisition of EIS, Inc. (“EIS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered in Atlanta,
Georgia. This Group distributes materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic manufacturers, as well as industrial assembly and specialty wire and cable markets in North America. With 47 branch locations in the United States, Puerto Rico,
the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Canada, this Group distributes over 100,000 items including wire and cable, insulating and conductive materials, assembly tools and test equipment. EIS also has six manufacturing facilities that provide custom
fabricated parts.

In 2013, EIS made two strategic acquisitions. Effective August 1, 2013, EIS acquired the assets of
Trient Technologies Inc., a fabricator of flexible materials with one location in Woodville, Wisconsin and annual revenues of approximately $9 million. Effective October 31, 2013, EIS acquired the assets of Tekra Corporation
(“Tekra”), headquartered in New Berlin, Wisconsin. Tekra is an independent fabricator and coater of films and flexible materials with approximately $75 million in annual revenues.

Additionally, effective February 1, 2014, EIS acquired the assets of Electro-Wire, Inc. (“Electro-Wire”). Headquartered in
Schaumburg, Illinois, Electro-Wire is a North American distributor and contract manufacturer of specialty wire and cable products with four locations in the U.S. and primarily serving the telecom and transit markets. Electro-Wire is expected to
generate approximately $100 million in annual revenues.

Distribution System.The
Electrical/Electronic Materials Group provides distribution services to OEM’s, motor repair shops, specialty wire and cable users and a broad variety of industrial assembly markets. EIS actively utilizes its e-commerce Internet site to present
its products to customers while allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a large product assortment.

Electrical and electronic, industrial assembly, and wire and cable products are distributed from warehouse locations in major user markets
throughout the United States, as well as in Mexico, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic. EIS has return privileges with some of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence.

Products.    The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group distributes a wide variety of products to
customers from over 350 vendors. These products include custom fabricated flexible materials that are used as components within a customer’s manufactured finished product in a variety of market segments. Among the products distributed and
fabricated are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, electrical wire and cable, insulating and shielding materials, assembly tools, test equipment, adhesives and chemicals, pressure sensitive tapes, solder, anti-static products, thermal
management products and coated films. To meet the prompt delivery demands of its customers, this Group maintains large inventories. The majority of sales are on open account. Approximately 45% of 2013 total Electrical/Electronic Materials Group
purchases were made from 10 major suppliers.

Integrated Supply.The Electrical/Electronic
Materials Group’s integrated supply programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater number of customers — especially national accounts — are given the opportunity to participate in this low-cost, high-service
capability. The Group developed AIMS (Advanced Inventory






Index to Financial Statements

Management System), a totally integrated, highly automated solution for inventory management. The Group’s Integrated Supply offering also includes AIMS EASI, an electronic vending dispenser
used to eliminate costly tool cribs, or in-house stores, at customer warehouse facilities.

Segment
Data.In the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales from the Company’s Electrical/Electronic Materials Group approximated 4% of the Company’s net sales. For additional segment information,
see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1.

Competition.    The electrical and electronics distribution business is highly competitive. The
Electrical/Electronic Materials Group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. EIS
competes primarily on factors of price, product offerings, service and engineered solutions. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We Face Substantial Competition in
the Industries in Which We Do Business.”



