Item 1.Business

General

Royal Caribbean International was founded in 1968. The current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was
incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.

We are the
world’s second largest cruise company operating 38 ships in the cruise vacation industry with approximately 84,050 berths as of December 31, 2009. We own five cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur,
Azamara Club Cruises, and CDF Croisières de France. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the brand TUI Cruises. Our cruise brands primarily serve the contemporary, premium and
“up-market” segments of the cruise vacation industry. Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately 400 destinations. We compete principally on the basis of quality of ships, quality of service,
variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price.

We are a global cruise company serving numerous cruise markets
throughout the world through our three main cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises. We have offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, and Australia which
focus on our international passenger sourcing. In addition, the strategic acquisition of Pullmantur in 2006 provides us with a brand to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America. Our launch of CDF Croisières de France in
2007 provides us with a custom tailored product targeted at the cruise market in France and the formation of our joint venture with TUI AG in 2008 provides us with a custom tailored product targeted at the cruise market in Germany.

Our commitment to acquire state-of-the-art ships, along with our maintenance programs and revitalizations to incorporate our latest
signature brand elements provides us with the flexibility to deploy our ships among our brand portfolio and expand into growing international markets.

We believe cruising continues to be a widely accepted vacation alternative due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shore-side activities. In addition, we believe that
our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic. Further, we believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry.

Royal Caribbean International

Royal Caribbean International is positioned at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, although its quality enables it to attract consumers from the premium segment as
well. This allows Royal Caribbean International to achieve one of the broadest market coverage of any of the major cruise brands in the vacation industry. The contemporary segment is served by cruises that are generally seven nights or shorter and
feature a casual ambiance. The premium segment is served by cruises that are generally seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. Royal Caribbean International operates 21 ships with approximately
56,600 berths, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii,
Latin America, the Middle East, the Panama Canal and New Zealand.






Central Park

Boardwalk

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Cruises primarily serves the premium segment
of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises operates nine ships with approximately 17,650 berths, offering various cruise itineraries that range from two to 17 nights. Celebrity Cruises’ fleet and service has been consistently recognized
with numerous awards from cruise traveler polls, travel agents and travel industry publications.

Celebrity Cruises’
strategy is to attract experienced cruise guests who appreciate and value the high quality, service-focused experience the brand offers. Celebrity Cruises offers a global cruise experience by providing a variety of cruise lengths and itineraries to
premium destinations throughout the world and has deployed a high proportion of its fleet in seasonal markets, e.g., Alaska, Bermuda, Europe, the Panama Canal and South America. Celebrity Cruises is also the only major cruise line to operate a ship
in the Galapagos Islands,Celebrity Xpedition.Celebrity Xpeditionhas approximately 100 berths and provides this unique experience on seven day cruises with pre-cruise tours in Ecuador.

Celebrity Cruises’ products and service have broad appeal for a global audience. Celebrity Cruises delivers an intimate experience
onboard upscale ships that offer a high staff-to-passenger ratio, extensive spa facilities, fine dining, personalized service, and on the Celebrity Solstice-class, unique onboard attractions such as the “Lawn Club”, a half acre venue
featuring live grass and the “Hot Glass Show”, a fully functional glass blowing studio.

Pullmantur

Pullmantur serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets. Pullmantur
operates five ships with approximately 7,650 berths, offering various seven-night cruise itineraries. Pullmantur has tour operations and owns a 49% interest in a small air business that operates three Boeing 747 aircrafts in support of its cruise
and tour operations.

Pullmantur’s strategy is to attract cruise guests by providing a variety of cruising options and
land-based travel packages. Pullmantur offers a range of cruise itineraries to the Baltic, Brazil, the Caribbean, the Mediterranean, Mexico and Portugal. Pullmantur offers a wide array of onboard activities and services to guests, including exercise
facilities, swimming pools, beauty salons, gaming facilities, shopping, and dining and entertainment venues. Pullmantur’s tour operations sell land-based travel packages to Spanish guests including hotels and flights primarily to Caribbean
resorts, and land-based tour packages to Europe aimed at Latin American guests.

Azamara Club Cruises

In 2009, Azamara Club Cruises went through a repositioning of the brand, in which the goal was to achieve greater brand awareness as a
destination immersive cruise line. As part of this repositioning, the brand’s name was changed in 2009 from Azamara Cruises to Azamara Club Cruises in order to reflect a more intimate feel of its ships. Azamara Club Cruises is designed to serve
the up-market segment of the North American, U.K. and German markets which incorporates elements of the premium and luxury segments. Azamara Club Cruises operates two ships with a total of approximately 1,400 berths, offering various cruise
itineraries that range from seven to 16 nights.






Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destinations, featuring unique
itineraries with more overnight stays and specialty tours. Azamara Club Cruises newly refined focus is to attract experienced travelers who enjoy cruising and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of service. Azamara Club
Cruises sails in Asia, Western & Northern Europe, the Mediterranean, the Panama Canal and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean, with more overnight and late-night stays in every region.

Azamara Club Cruises offers a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities, including gaming facilities, fine dining and
interactive entertainment venues.

CDF Croisières de France

CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market and increases our global presence
by providing us with a brand custom-tailored for French cruise guests. CDF Croisières de France operates one ship,Bleu de France, with a total of approximately 750 berths offering various four to ten night cruise itineraries.

CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean and the Caribbean. CDF Croisières de
France offers a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including entertainment venues, exercise and spa facilities, fine dining, and gaming facilities.

TUI Cruises

In 2008, we formed our joint venture with TUI AG, a European
tourism and shipping company which owns 51% of TUI Travel. The joint venture operates TUI Cruises, designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a custom-tailored product for German guests. All
customer-facing crewmembers speak German, and onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. In addition, the joint venture allows us to expand into this new market and
increase our global presence.Celebrity Galaxy, a 1,850-berth ship, previously part of Celebrity Cruises, was sold to TUI Cruises to serve as its first ship and has been sailing under the nameMein Schiffsince May 2009.

Industry

Cruising is considered a well established vacation sector in the North American market and a developing but growing sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are
first-time cruisers. We believe this could present an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.

We estimate that the global cruise industry carried 17.3 million cruise passengers in 2009 compared to 17.2 million cruise passengers carried in 2008. We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately 373,000
berths on approximately 267 ships by the end of 2009. There are approximately 27 ships with an estimated 62,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2010 and 2013.

The North American cruise market has experienced a compound annual growth rate of approximately 8.3% since 1970. From 2005 to 2009 North
America has experienced a compound annual growth rate in cruise passengers of approximately 0.6%, attributable in large part to the recent international expansion within the cruise industry. We estimate that North America was served by 138 ships
with approximately 188,000 berths at the beginning of 2005 and by 145 ships with approximately 228,000 berths by the end of 2009. There are approximately 14 ships with an estimated 33,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the North
American cruise market between 2010 and 2013.






The following table details the growth in the global and North American cruise markets in
terms of cruise passengers and estimated weighted-average berths over the past five years:



YearGlobal CruisePassengers(1)Weighted-AverageSupply of BerthsMarketedGlobally(1)North AmericanCruisePassengers(2)Weighted-AverageSupply of BerthsMarketed inNorthAmerica(1)200514,818,000288,0009,909,000190,000200615,309,000304,00010,080,000201,000200716,586,000327,00010,330,000212,000200817,184,000347,00010,093,000219,000200917,340,000363,00010,169,000222,000



1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise passengers, and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally and in North America are based on a
combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider and Cruise Line International Association. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis
utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

2)Source: Cruise Line International Association based on cruise passengers carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2005 through 2008. Year 2009 amounts
represent our estimates (see number 1 above).

We compete with a number of cruise lines; however, our principal
competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC
Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time. Demand for such activities is influenced by
political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.

Our ships operate worldwide and have itineraries that call on destinations in Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Bahamas, Bermuda, California, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Galapagos Islands, Hawaii, Mexico, the Middle East, New England, New
Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America.

In an effort to penetrate untapped markets and diversify our customer base, we
continue to seek opportunities to redeploy ships in our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises brands to new markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships and our investment in
infrastructure allows us to expand into new markets and helps us reduce our dependency on any one market by allowing us to create “home ports” around the world. In addition, it allows us to readily redeploy our ships to meet demand within
our existing cruise markets.

The current economic environment has significantly deteriorated consumer confidence and
discretionary spending. While there has been a decrease in the demand for cruises and a resulting drop in cruise prices, cruising has proven to be resilient as it offers consumers a good value when compared to other vacation alternatives. However,
the projected increase in capacity within the cruise industry from new cruise ships currently on order could produce additional pricing pressures within the industry. See Item 1A. Risk Factors.






Operating Strategies

Our principal operating strategies are to:



•manage the efficiency of our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands throughout the world,



•expand our fleet with the new state-of-the-art cruise ships currently on order,



•expand into those new markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns,



•continue to expand and diversify our passenger mix,



•protect the health, safety and security of our passengers and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•utilize sophisticated revenue management capabilities to optimize total revenue,



•further improve our technological capabilities, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, the principal industry distribution channel, while offering direct access for consumers.

Manage operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity

We are focused on maximizing the efficiency of our operating expenditures and ensuring adequate cash and liquidity. We are continually
committed to improving our cost focus and have implemented new cost-containment initiatives. To ensure adequate liquidity, we discontinued our quarterly dividend commencing in the fourth quarter of 2008 and have tactically managed our capital
expenditures. We believe these strategies will enhance our ability to fund our capital spending obligations and improve our balance sheet.

Brand Awareness and Market Penetration

We continue to increase the
recognition and market penetration of our brands among consumers throughout the world. Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises are established global brands in the contemporary and premium segments of the vacation industry. Pullmantur is
a widely recognized brand in the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American contemporary cruise markets. Azamara Club Cruises is designed to serve the up-market cruise segment. CDF Croisières de France is targeted to serve the contemporary
segment of the French cruise market.

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our Royal Caribbean International
brand through communication strategies designed to emphasize its high quality and excellent-value cruise vacations. For instance, in 2008, Royal Caribbean International launched a new brand campaign, “The Nation of Why Not.” This
brand campaign highlights Royal Caribbean International’s global destinations and innovative onboard amenities. Royal Caribbean International’s communication strategies target adults and families who are vacation enthusiasts interested in
exploring new destinations and seeking new experiences. These strategies are also designed to attract first-time cruisers to the cruise vacation industry and to the Royal Caribbean International brand. In order to attract the experienced cruiser who
is seeking new experiences as well as first-time cruisers, Royal Caribbean International provides multiple choices to guests through a wide array of itineraries, accommodations, dining options, onboard activities and shore excursions. The hallmarks
of the brand include friendly and engaging service, state-of-the-art ships, family programs, entertainment, health and fitness and energizing onboard and shoreside activities designed for guests of all ages.

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our Celebrity Cruises brand through consumer and trade campaigns designed to broaden
the recognition of its high quality cruise vacations and drive loyalty and brand preference by emphasizing the personalized service and attention its guests receive. Celebrity Cruises’ communications target cruisers who seek upscale experiences
and appreciate a high staff-to-passenger ratio, spacious accommodations, fine dining and spa services. In the beginning of 2010, Celebrity Cruises launched a new brand platform, “Designed for You” that frames how Celebrity Cruises
understands what discerning cruisers look for in a cruise experience and delivers it.






We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our Pullmantur brand primarily through
advertising campaigns targeted to Spanish and Portuguese-speaking guests in both Spain and Latin America. All customer-facing crewmembers speak Spanish and on certain itineraries Portuguese, and onboard activities, services, shore excursions and
menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market.

We increase awareness and market penetration for
Azamara Club Cruises with several marketing campaigns and through other channels. Azamara Club Cruises’ marketing mix includes extensive online marketing, print advertising in key travel magazines, trade advertising, as well as extensive
collaboration with up-market travel agents in such areas as training and road shows. We have developed relationships with key boutique agencies and luxury consortiums and work in collaboration with international offices and international
representatives. We also have developed a new website and provide internet activities to support the travel trade and customers.

We continue to increase the awareness and market penetration of our CDF Croisières de France brand through trade education, public relations and direct communications, designed to target the contemporary segment of the French cruise
market. CDF Croisières de France’s communications emphasizes that its cruise product is tailored specifically to French-speaking guests. All customer-facing crewmembers speak French, and the onboard activities and menu offerings are
designed to suit their target guests’ preferences.

In addition, we also increase brand awareness through travel agencies
who generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to further developing and strengthening this very important distribution channel by facilitating their focus on the unique qualities of each of our brands.

Fleet Development and Maintenance

We currently have signed agreements with two shipyards providing for the construction of four new state-of-the-art cruise ships scheduled to enter service between the second quarter of 2010 and the fourth
quarter of 2012. These additions are expected to result in an increase in our passenger capacity of approximately 13,950 berths by December 31, 2012, or approximately 16.6% as compared to our capacity as of December 31, 2009. It is
possible that some of our older ships may be sold or retired during this time period, thus reducing the size of our fleet. As market conditions warrant, we could also order new ships or purchase existing ships, thereby further increasing our fleet
size.

The acquisition of our remaining state-of-the-art ships on order in the Solstice and Oasis class, along with our
maintenance programs on our existing fleet will provide us with the flexibility to deploy our ships among our brand portfolio and expand into growing international markets. Our Solstice and Oasis class ships incorporate new innovations and allow us
to capture cost savings through their scale and fuel efficiencies. The design of these ships allows for a greater percentage of staterooms with verandas and outside staterooms which provide for premium pricing.

In addition to our fleet development, we place a strong focus on product innovation to drive new demand for our products and stimulate
repeat business from our guests. Innovation of our products is achieved by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our existing fleet in a cost effective manner. In order to offer guests a wider range of
activities and amenities and to ensure consistency across our fleets, we have revitalized some of our older ships to update and refresh their interiors and to incorporate signature brand elements. Renovations have included the addition of new
balconies, dining and entertainment options, as well as refurbishments to staterooms and public areas.

Royal Caribbean
International. Founded in 1968, Royal Caribbean International was the first cruise line to design ships for warm water year round cruises. Since then Royal Caribbean International has launched several classes of ships, each building upon the
innovation of the previous class. Several of these innovations and recreational activities such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues), ice and in-line skating rinks, rock climbing walls,
miniature golf, full court basketball, enhanced staterooms and expanded dining venues have become signature elements of the brand.






More recently, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the
3,600-berthFreedom of the Seas, the first of three Freedom-class ships in 2006. The Freedom-class ships have some of the largest staterooms and balconies in the industry, flat screen televisions, cell phone services and other amenities. The
launch of the Freedom-class ships also introduced several new experiences to cruising, including a surf simulator and an interactive water park called the H2O ZoneTM. Royal Caribbean International took delivery of a second Freedom-class ship,Liberty of the Seas,in April 2007
and the third Freedom-class ship,Independence of the Seas, in April 2008.

Building upon the innovations of the
Freedom-class ships, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the first Oasis-class ship,Oasis of the Seasin October 2009. The second Oasis-class ship,Allure of the Seas, is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of
2010. This new class of ships has approximately 5,400 berths. Each ship spans 16 decks and 2,700 staterooms. These ships also allow for a greater percentage of staterooms with verandas and outside staterooms which provide for premium pricing. The
new Oasis-class ships have introduced several new experiences to cruising including the new neighborhood concept. The neighborhood concept consists of seven distinct themed areas which includeCentral Park, a park open to the sky andBoardwalk, an outdoor family-friendly area featuring a handcrafted carousel and an amphitheater at sea known as AquaTheater. Additional new features include an elevating bar, a zip line ride that races diagonally nine-decks above an open-air
atrium, a sloped-beach entry pool and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. The Oasis-class ships also offer new categories in onboard accommodations including bi-level, urban-style two bedroom/two bathroom suites and balcony
staterooms facing some of the distinct neighborhoods.

Celebrity Cruises.Celebrity Cruises was founded in 1990 and has
introduced several classes of ships each building on the brand’s primary strengths. The progression and innovation of these ships have elevated Celebrity Cruises’ position in the premium segment of the marketplace. Some of the brand’s
signature elements include gourmet dining, spacious staterooms and suites with verandas, spa facilities, piano, champagne and martini bars and lounges. Celebrity Cruises improves its existing fleet to keep them current with the newest innovations.
Most recently,Celebrity Millenniumunderwent a renovation of its onboard amenities and public areas in 2009.

With a
strong focus on product innovation, Celebrity Cruises ordered a total of five Solstice-class ships, two of which have been delivered. The Solstice-class ships are a new wide-body construction class of ships with approximately 2,850 berths. This new
wide-body construction design provides for many intimate areas onboard the ship. The Solstice-class ships incorporate many new and improved design features including the industry’s first ever “Lawn Club”. The Lawn Club is over a half
acre venue featuring live grass for guest enjoyment. Celebrity Cruises also introduced the “Hot Glass Show,” a fully functional glass blowing studio which operates at the Lawn Club. The Solstice-class ships are also equipped with solar
foils and solar panels, another industry first. Approximately 90% of the ships’ staterooms are outside and approximately 85% of the staterooms have verandas.Celebrity SolsticeandCelebrity Equinox, the first and second of the
five Solstice-class ships were delivered in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining three ships,Celebrity Eclipse,Celebrity Silhouetteand a still unnamed ship, are expected to enter service in the second quarter of 2010, third
quarter of 2011 and fourth quarter of 2012, respectively.

Pullmantur.Pullmantur was founded in 1971. We acquired
Pullmantur in November 2006 and it currently operates five ships which range in size from approximately 1,000 to 2,300 berths for a total of 7,650 berths.

In May 2007,Zenithwas redeployed from Celebrity Cruises to Pullmantur. Before redeployment to Pullmantur,Zenithunderwent renovations to incorporate Pullmantur’s signature elements,
while adding approximately 38 new verandas and 25 staterooms.Empress of the SeasandSovereign of the Seaswere redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in March 2008 and November 2008, respectively. Before
redeployment to Pullmantur, each ship underwent renovations to incorporate Pullmantur’s signature elements which include Spanish signage, logos and expanded disco areas. Upon the return ofIsland Starin April 2009 from Island Cruises,
the ship was redeployed to Pullmantur and has been sailing under the namePacific Dreamsince May 2009. Before redeployment to Pullmantur, the ship underwent renovations to incorporate the signature elements. This ship is dedicated to the
Latin American market in support of Pullmantur’s Latin American expansion.






Azamara Club Cruises.In May 2007,Blue Dreamwas redeployed from Pullmantur
to Azamara Club Cruises, and is sailing under the nameAzamara Journey. In September 2007,Blue Moonwas also redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises and is sailing under the nameAzamara Quest. Before redeployment to
the Azamara Club Cruises brand, each ship underwent renovations including the upgrade of guest suites and staterooms, and adding two new specialty restaurants.

CDF Croisières de France.In April 2008,Holiday Dreamwas redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France and sails as its first ship under the nameBleu de France.Before redeployment to CDF Croisières de France,Holiday Dreamunderwent renovations, including the addition of a French bistro and a spa with a sea water center, to customize the ship for French guests.

New Markets and Itineraries

Our ships operate worldwide with a selection of itineraries that call on approximately 400 ports. New ships, including both newly constructed ships and those we acquire, allow us to expand into new
markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries, while strengthening our ability to penetrate the Asian, Caribbean, European, and Latin American markets further.

In 2009, we continued to focus on the acceleration of Royal Caribbean International’s and Celebrity Cruise’s strategic positioning
as global cruise brands while expanding Pullmantur. An unprecedented 22 of our ships sailed in Europe and Royal Caribbean International had the most European capacity of any non-European brand as it increased its capacity to eight ships. In late
2009, Royal Caribbean International returned to Asia and commenced year round deployment through 2010. In addition, Royal Caribbean International returned to Israel in 2009, having last visited Israel in 2000. During 2009, Royal Caribbean
International also expanded into new North American markets by operating Mexico cruises from San Diego and Los Angeles, California and offering seasonal Caribbean itineraries from the Dominican Republic. Royal Caribbean International debutedOasis of the Seasin the Eastern Caribbean in December 2009. Also starting in December 2009, Royal Caribbean International increased its capacity in Brazil.

Royal Caribbean International continues its international expansion in 2010 by adding sailings from Dubai, which started in January 2010. In
North America, Royal Caribbean International will now offer year-round cruising from Baltimore starting in June 2010. In late 2010,Allure of the Seaswill make its debut from Fort Lauderdale joiningOasis of the Seaswith both ships
offering alternating Eastern & Western Caribbean voyages allowing guests to enjoy the opportunity to book back-to-back cruises.

Celebrity Cruises also increased its capacity in Europe in 2009. With five ships, the brand had its greatest presence ever in Europe. The 2009 season also marked the debut ofCelebrity Equinoxwith
Holy Land sailings from Rome, which was a first for the brand. Starting in the fall of 2009, Celebrity Cruises also expanded into new North American markets operating Caribbean cruises from Baltimore, Maryland and Charleston, South Carolina.

The Solstice-class expansion has allowed the brand to expand into new markets and to broaden its mix of itineraries for 2010.Celebrity Eclipsewill be the third vessel of the class, will debut in the second quarter of 2010, and will be deployed in Southampton. This will mark the first time in the brand’s history that it will have a dedicated product in the UK
market. Celebrity Cruises will also return to offering year-round cruising in the Caribbean withCelebrity Solsticeand will offer cruises to Bermuda and Canada.

Azamara Club Cruises will continue to offer sailings in Western & Northern Europe, Asia, the Mediterranean, the Panama Canal and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean. Also, Pullmantur and
CDF Croisières de France will continue to offer European itineraries on all ships.






International Passengers

Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately 46%, 40%, and 37% of
total passenger ticket revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. International passengers have grown from approximately 573,000 in 2005 to approximately 1.5 million in 2009.

We sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to passengers outside of
North America through our offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, and Australia. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react faster to local market
conditions as well as providing us with the ability to better understand our customer base in each respective market. We further extend our reach with a network of 47 independent international representatives located throughout the world.
Historically, our focus has been to primarily source passengers for our global brands from North America. Over the last several years, we have and continue to expand our focus to sell and market our cruise brands to countries outside of North
America through fleet innovation and by responding to the cultural characteristics of our global passengers.

We continue to
look for opportunities of acquiring or developing brands custom-tailored to specific markets. TUI Cruises, our joint venture with TUI AG, a European tourism and shipping company, is a new cruise brand targeted at the cruise market in Germany. TUI
Cruises complements two of our existing brands custom-tailored to specific markets, Pullmantur, which is targeted at passengers primarily in Spain, Portugal and Latin America and CDF Croisières de France, which is targeted at passengers
primarily in France.

Health, Safety, Security and Environmental Policies

We are committed to protecting the health, safety and security of our passengers, employees and others working on our behalf. We are also
committed to protecting the marine environment in which our vessels sail and the communities in which we operate by minimizing adverse environmental consequences and using resources efficiently. Our rapid and corporate wide approach to contagious
disease challenges, such as those associated with the H1N1 virus, allow us to minimize the impact of any outbreaks on our ships and effectively use our medical and public health expertise to meet the health care needs of our guests and crew. We
established a unified department to oversee global security, maritime safety, medical and public health areas, and environmental stewardship. The organization is comprised of technical experts in each area focused on improving our systems for
prevention and response.

Revenue Management

We believe we have some of the most advanced revenue management capabilities in the industry, which enables us to make more advantageous
decisions about pricing, inventory management and marketing actions even during periods of volatility and contracted booking windows. We are continuously working to improve our systems and tools through increased forecasting capabilities, ongoing
improvements to our understanding of price/demand relationships, and greater automation of the decision processes. We also continue our strategy of adapting to our ever changing guest mix by developing new onboard products in an effort to maximize
onboard revenue from our existing customers. We believe these revenue management capabilities allow us to make more advantageous decisions to enhance revenue, especially during these uncertain economic times.






Technological Capabilities

Innovation in information technology continues to be an integral part of our business strategy. In 2008 and 2009, we introduced the
Solstice-class and Oasis-class ships by delivering three state of the art ships from these classes,Celebrity Solstice, Celebrity EquinoxandOasis of the Seas. Each of these ships leverages a fully converged network that joins
telephone, television and internet, helping to drive revenue and guest satisfaction.Oasis of the Seasis a first in class ship, delivering high definition television in each stateroom as well as phone service to our guests over a single
converged data network. The ship boasts a pervasive bow to stern wireless network used to run our crew phones, internet access from anywhere and nine different operational systems, including wireless point-of-sale, show ticketing, and electronic
mustering hand-helds. Technology innovation is present everywhere on the ship with enhanced digital signage systems with intuitive location and directions capabilities, real-time restaurant availability displays to help our guests decide among a
multitude of dining options, and a state-of-the art child tracking system that can locate a child anywhere onboard.

In
addition to improving the shipboard experience, we also leverage technology to enhance our guests’ ability to plan their vacation before coming onboard. This includes booking show tickets and signing up for electronic waivers onOasis of the
Seas, receiving guest bag tags and enhanced electronic documents, and booking spa & beverage packages in advance. We also deployed major system enhancements to support innovative new programs, including Choice Air, “My Time
Dining” and “Celebrity Select Dining”.

Travel Agency Support and Direct Business

Cruisingpower.com

VIP CruisePass

EMarketing

EConnect

My Marketing Center

We completed several key enhancements to simplify the online booking process via
our new CruiseMatch trade booking tool based on feedback from our travel agent partners, which now includes Azamara Club Cruises and Pullmantur. The second phase of this investment was launched in 2009 to offer additional functionality such as
enabling travel agents to make bookings in an existing group block, as well as provide group insurance.

In 2008, we launched
a program directed to help the broad travel agent community overcome the poor economic environment. The program, Agent Support Action Plan (ASAP), included a one percent commission supplement on any cruise bookings made between January 1 and
February 28, 2009 for sailings from January 2009 through March 2010, increased co-op funding for qualifying agencies undertaking significant marketing plans, relaxed requirements to qualify for tour conductor credits to help agents earn more
money while encouraging group bookings, and an individual agent booking incentive through which agents can earn a complimentary cruise. In 2009, we extended our support of the travel agent community with ASAP Plus which allows agencies to maintain
their 2009 commission tier levels for 2010 regardless of their 2009 revenue levels subject to certain conditions.

We have
customer service representatives that are trained to assist travel agents in providing a higher level of service, andInsight, the first service tool of its kind in the industry, assists agencies with productivity and enhances customer
service. We currently operate reservation call centers to support our travel agent community in the United States, Canada, France, Spain and the United Kingdom which allow us to provide flexible and extended hours of operations.






We have certified vacation planners in our call centers in Miramar, Florida, Wichita, Kansas
and Addlestone, England offering cruise planning expertise and personal attention for direct bookings. Direct booking channels for Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises are available through our internet sites atwww.royalcaribbean.com,www.celebrity.comandwww.azamaraclubcruises.com.Guests can also book their cruise vacations onboard our ships. We continue to experience an increase in the use of our internet sites and other direct
booking channels as a source of our overall bookings.

Guest Services

We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and
post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. We offer our guests the ability to check-in online in order to alleviate boarding time during embarkation. Our air/sea program offers guests the choice of our standard air or custom air programs.
Our standard air program allows our guests to benefit from comprehensive relationships that we maintain with many major airlines ranging from fare negotiation and space handling to baggage transfer. Our custom air program enables guests to customize
their flight arrangements, including selection of airline, specific flights and class of service. We have made enhancements to our Choice Air program which now allows guests to obtain flight and seat information upon booking.

The Royal Caribbean International passenger loyalty program, Crown & Anchor Society, has over five million members worldwide and
includes benefits such as a secured dedicated section in thewww.royalcaribbean.cominternet site with special cruise offers and onboard amenities. The Celebrity Cruises’ passenger loyalty program, Captain’s Club has over one
million members. Captain’s Club members enjoy exclusive members-only onboard programs and amenities, and are provided with a secured area on the Celebrity Cruises website, which communicates select products. Azamara Club Cruises will launch a
new passenger loyalty program, Le Club Voyage, in April 2010.






Operations

Cruise Ships and Itineraries

As of December 31, 2009, we operate 38 ships under five cruise brands, with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 17 nights that call on approximately 400 destinations.Celebrity EclipseandAllure of the Seasare expected to enter revenue service in the second and fourth quarters of 2010, respectively. The following table represents summary information concerning our ships and their areas of
operation based on 2010 itineraries (subject to change). It does not include Pullmantur’sAtlantic Starwhich is currently not in operation and which we plan to sell:





ShipYear ShipEntered or WillEnter
Service1ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Allure of the Seas20105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas20095,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas20083,600Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas20073,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas20063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas20042,100Caribbean, Canada/New England, Europe

Mariner of the Seas20033,100Mexican Riviera

Serenade of the Seas20032,100Southern Caribbean

Navigator of the Seas20023,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Brilliance of the Seas20022,100Europe, Middle East

Adventure of the Seas20013,100Southern Caribbean, Europe

Radiance of the Seas20012,100Mexican Riviera, Alaska, Western Caribbean

Explorer of the Seas20003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Voyager of the Seas19993,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Vision of the Seas19982,000Europe, Brazil

Enchantment of the Seas19972,250Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Rhapsody of the Seas19972,000Australia/NZ, Alaska, Hawaii

Grandeur of the Seas19961,950Eastern/Western/Southern Caribbean

Splendour of the Seas19961,800Europe, Brazil

Legend of the Seas19951,800Asia

Majesty of the Seas19922,350Bahamas

Monarch of the Seas19912,350Bahamas



Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Eclipse20102,850Europe, Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox20092,850Europe, Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice20082,850Eastern Caribbean

Celebrity Constellation20022,050Caribbean, Europe, Panama Canal

Celebrity Summit20012,050Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Celebrity Infinity20012,050Alaska, Panama Canal, South America

Celebrity Millennium20002,050Southern Caribbean, Panama Canal, Alaska

Celebrity Mercury19971,850Alaska, Panama Canal, Bahamas, Eastern Caribbean

Celebrity Century19951,800Western Caribbean, Bahamas, Europe

Celebrity Xpedition22004100Galapagos Islands



Pullmantur

Ocean Dream320081,000Southern Caribbean

Zenith419921,400Mediterranean, Brazil

Empress519901,600Eastern Mediterranean, Brazil, Baltic

Sovereign519882,300Western Mediterranean, Brazil

Pacific Dream619901,350Mexican Pacific, Northern Caribbean





Azamara Club CruisesAzamara Journey72004700Europe, Caribbean, Panama CanalAzamara Quest82006700Europe, AsiaCDF Croisières de FranceBleu de France92005750Mediterranean, CaribbeanTotal92,300



1The year a ship entered or will enter service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the Company, which is the
same as the year the ship was built, unless otherwise noted.

2Celebrity
Xpeditionwas built in 2001.

3Ocean Dreamwas built in 1981.

4Zenithwas
revitalized in 2007 and redeployed to Pullmantur in May 2007.

5Empress(formerlyEmpress of the Seas) andSovereign(formerlySovereign of the Seas)were redeployed from Royal Caribbean
Internationalto Pullmantur in March 2008 and November
2008, respectively.

6We took delivery of Celebrity Cruises’Horizonas part of the termination of the charter to Island Cruises. The ship was redeployed to
Pullmantur and has been sailing under the namePacific Dreamsince May 2009. The ship was built in 1990.

7Azamara Journey(formerlyBlue Dream) was built in 2000 and was redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises in May 2007.

8Azamara Quest(formerlyBlue Moon) was built in 2000 and was redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises in September 2007.

9Bleu de France(formerlyHoliday Dream)was built in 1981 and was redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France in April 2008.






We have one Oasis-class ship on order for Royal Caribbean International. This ship is being
built in Finland by STX Finland Cruise Oy (formerly Aker Yards Oy). We have three Solstice-class ships on order for Celebrity Cruises. These ships are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH. The expected dates these ships will enter service and
their planned number of berths are as follows:



ShipExpected to EnterServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International:Oasis-class:Allure of the Seas4th Quarter 20105,400Celebrity Cruises:Solstice-class:Celebrity Eclipse2nd Quarter 20102,850Celebrity Silhouette3rd Quarter 20112,850Unnamed4th Quarter 20122,850Total Berths13,950

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer
months and holidays.

Passengers and Capacity

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see Terminology and Non-GAAP Financial Measures under Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions). (Amounts include Pullmantur effective January 1, 2007):



Year Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Passengers Carried3,970,2784,017,5543,905,3843,600,8073,476,287Passenger Cruise Days28,503,04627,657,57826,594,51523,849,60623,178,560Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)27,821,22426,463,63725,155,76822,392,47821,733,724Occupancy102.5%104.5%105.7%106.5%106.6%

Cruise
Pricing

Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals
and entertainment. Prices vary depending on the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. Although we grant credit terms to certain travel agencies and tour operators outside of the United
States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available
passenger staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance. Additionally, we offer air transportation as a
service for guests that elect to utilize our transportation program. Our air transportation program is available from major cities in the United States and Canada, and from select cities in Europe, mainly in the United Kingdom. Prices vary by
gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost. Passenger ticket revenues accounted for 71.4%, 72.4% and 72.0% of total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.






Onboard Activities and Other Revenues

In conjunction with our cruise
vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests. We also offer escorted, premium land-tour vacation packages in Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Canadian
Rockies, Europe, New Zealand and Latin America. These escorted, premium land-tour vacations are offered exclusively in conjunction with our cruises marketed to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests
through our cruise-tour operations, Royal Celebrity Tours. Pullmantur also offers land-based travel packages to Spanish and European vacation travelers including hotels and flights to Caribbean and Thailand resorts and sells land based tour packages
to Europe aimed at Latin American guests. In addition, we sell cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. Onboard and other revenues accounted for 28.6%,
27.6% and 28.0% of total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Segment Reporting

We operate five cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club Cruises and CDF Croisières
de France. The brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics as well as products and services provided. (For financial information see Item 8.Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.)

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 4,900 full-time and 800 part-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations. We
also employed approximately 54,600 shipboard employees. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Based on employee survey results, we believe our employees’
satisfaction level with our organization is strong.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements, earnings and increased
value, which are maintained in amounts related to the value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other
international insurance markets.

We maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships through
either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited or Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited. Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to
additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.

We maintain war risk insurance for our ships, including terrorist risk insurance, on each ship through a Norwegian war risk insurance
organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for
risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days
notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.






We also maintain insurance coverage for certain events, which would result in a delayed
delivery of our contracted new ships, which we normally place starting approximately two years prior to the scheduled delivery dates.

Insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.

We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already
in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. We carry business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations.

All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the
maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able
to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.

The Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea (1974) and the 1976 Protocol to
the Athens Convention are generally applicable to passenger ships. The United States has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Athens Convention Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to those of
our cruises that do not call at a United States port. The International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed upon a new Protocol to the Athens Convention on November 1, 2002. The 2002 Protocol, which is not yet in force,
substantially increases the level of compulsory insurance, which must be maintained by passenger ship operators. No assurance can be given as to if or when the 2002 Protocol will come into force. If in force, no assurance can be given that
affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to provide the level of coverage required under the 2002 Protocol.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International,
Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo,
the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships. We have also filed an application to register trademarks
related to Azamara Club Cruises, which include the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its logo. We believe trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Pullmantur Cruises brands are widely recognized
throughout the world and have considerable value. We also believe trademarks related to our new brands, Azamara Club Cruises and CDF Croisières de France, have received recent recognition throughout the world and have significant value.

Regulation

Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the
Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests
and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by
the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other
countries our ships visit.

We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and
that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United
States and internationally. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and would likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.






Safety Regulations

Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea
(“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS
standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications are being phased in through 2010. We do not anticipate that we will be required to make any material expenditures in order to comply with these rules.

Security Regulations

Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime
Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which is the governing regulation for ships that operate in U.S. ports. In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and
develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.

Environmental Regulations

We are subject to various United States and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things,
discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and
other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of cruise ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant
authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, this will likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (“IMO”) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the “MARPOL Regulations”), which includes
requirements designed to prevent and minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

On January 1, 2010, a European Union directive regarding the use of low sulfur fuels for ships became effective. The
directive places a 0.1% sulfur content limit on all marine fuels used by such ships while berthed or anchored in European Union ports. Compliance with this directive will require us to use distillate fuels such as marine gas oil, which we do not
expect will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the
sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide, which are currently 4.5% and are required to be reduced to 3.5% by January 1, 2012. We do not expect that this required reduction will have a material effect on our fuel and operating
costs. These regulations will also require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be reduced to 0.5% by January 1, 2020, subject to a feasibility review to be completed by IMO no later than 2018. If such a reduced limitation is
implemented worldwide in 2020, our fuel costs could increase significantly.

The MARPOL Regulations also establish special
Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these areas, which currently include the Baltic Sea and the North Sea/English Channel. Ships operating in ECAs will have to reduce their
fuel sulfur content from 1.5% to 1.0% beginning on July 1, 2010. Moreover, the United States and Canada have applied to the IMO to designate waters within 200 nautical miles of their east, west and gulf coasts, as well as the Hawaiian Islands,
as an ECA, but excluding certain areas within the Caribbean Basin such as the Bahamas. If approved, this ECA would likely come into effect during the summer of 2012. We do not expect the required sulfur content reductions in either the existing ECAs
or in the proposed United States and Canadian ECA will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. However, ships operating in ECAs will have to reduce their fuel sulfur content further to 0.1% beginning on January 1, 2015. We
estimate that the implementation of this change in the existing ECAs and in the proposed U.S. and Canadian ECA could significantly increase our costs after January 1, 2015 based on current capacities, fuel prices, itineraries and technologies.






The cost impacts from implementing progressively lower sulfur content requirements after
January 1, 2015 are not reasonably determinable given the length of time until such possible implementation and the applicability of many possible mitigating factors, such as changes in the future supply and demand for fuel, the development of
emissions abatement technologies, including new engine designs or exhaust gas treatment systems, and new fuel conservation initiatives.

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of water pollution. Pursuant to United States Coast Guard regulations, we
arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $347.2 million as a condition to obtaining the required certificates.

Labor Regulations

The International Labour Organization, an agency of the
United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”). The Convention reflects standards and conditions to govern all aspects of crew management for all
ships in international commerce, including additional requirements relating to the health, safety and status of crewmembers not previously in effect. The Convention could be ratified as early as 2010, in which case it would enter into force in 2011
or early 2012. If ratified, the enacting countries will be required to enact legislation to implement the standards outlined in the Convention. If implemented, our crew costs would likely increase by an indeterminable amount.

Consumer Regulations

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as
casualty and personal injury. Pursuant to the United States Federal Maritime Commission regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $30.0 million for our ship-operating companies as a condition to
obtaining the required certificates. The United States Federal Maritime Commission has recently issued an inquiry to solicit information concerning the benefits and burdens of the financial responsibility regulations which could result in enactment
of revisions to the regulations that could significantly increase the amount of our bonds and accordingly increase our costs of compliance.

We are also required by the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these
jurisdictions. In the United Kingdom, we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately £23.8 million. We are also required to pay to the United Kingdom Civil Aviation
Authority a non-refundable levy of £2.50 per guest where we arrange a flight as part of the cruise vacation.

Taxation of the Company

United States Federal Income Tax

The following discussion of the application of the United States federal income tax laws to us and our subsidiaries is based on the current
provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, and court decisions. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

We and our subsidiary, Celebrity Cruises Inc., the operator of Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, are foreign corporations engaged
in a trade or business in the United States, and our ship-owning subsidiaries are foreign corporations that, in many cases, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Under Section 883
of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including
income from the leasing of such ships.






We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international
operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883. In 2005, final regulations became effective under Section 883, which, among other things, narrowed somewhat the scope of activities that are considered
by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. The activities listed in the regulations as not being incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of air and land
transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. To the extent the income from these activities is earned from sources within the United States, that income will be subject to United States taxation; but the determination of the
precise amount of such United States source income involves some uncertainties.

Under certain circumstances, changes in the
identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders could cause our common stock not to be “regularly traded on an established securities market” within the meaning of the regulations under Section 883. To
substantially reduce any such risk, in May 2000, our Articles of Incorporation were amended to prohibit any person, other than our two existing largest shareholders, from owning, directly or constructively as determined for purposes of
Section 883(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated under it, more than 4.9% of the relevant class or classes of our shares. Under Liberian law, this amendment may not be enforceable with respect to shares of common
stock that were voted against the amendment or that were recorded as abstaining from the vote.

Also, it should be noted that
Section 883 has been the subject of legislative modifications in past years that have had the effect of limiting its availability to certain taxpayers, and there can be no assurance that future legislation will not preclude us from obtaining
the benefits of Section 883.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883 of the Internal
Revenue Code

If we, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of
Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international
operation of our ships.






If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning
subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from
the leasing of a ship. Such United States source gross transportation income may be determined under any reasonable method, including ratios of days traveling directly to or from United States ports to total days traveling, or of the lessee’s
United States source gross income from the ship (as determined under the source rules discussed in the preceding paragraph, and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth therein) to the lessee’s total gross income from the ship.

Maltese Income Tax

Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta. No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping
organization. Instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping
organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or
otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to
normal Maltese corporate income tax.

United Kingdom Income Tax

TheBrilliance of the Seasis operated by a company that is strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, which has
elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”). Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. Normal
United Kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to United Kingdom
corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our United Kingdom income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the
U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

State Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various United States
state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes. Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing
business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of
operations for all years presented.






Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the United States or other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify for
exemption under Section 883 or tonnage tax regimes. The tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented.

Website Access to Reports

We make available, free of charge, access
to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our
website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.

Executive Officers of the Company

Our executive officers are:



NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain62Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein50President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalDaniel J.Hanrahan52President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesGonzalo Chico Barbier49President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturLawrence Pimentel58President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesBrian J. Rice51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara57Executive Vice President, Maritime

Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain has been involved in the shipping industry for over 25 years.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive
Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest
Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry Association of America) in 2001.

Daniel J. Hanrahan has served as President of Celebrity Cruises since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since
September 2007. Mr. Hanrahan served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Cruises until July 2009. From 1999 until February 2005, Mr. Hanrahan served in a variety of positions with the Royal Caribbean International brand,
including Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing.

Gonzalo Chico Barbier has served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Pullmantur since June 2008. From 1995 to June 2008, Mr. Chico served as Executive President of TNT Spain, a division of TNT, a global distribution, logistics and international mail service company. From 1986 until 1995,
Mr. Chico was employed in a variety of positions with Ford Motor Company in Spain and in the United Kingdom, including Pan-European Fleet Business Manager of Ford of Europe, Ltd.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009. From 2001 until January 2009,
Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and
Mediterranean. From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival
Corp.’s Cunard Line.






Brian J. Rice has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
November 2006. Mr. Rice has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1989 in a variety of positions including Executive Vice President, Revenue Performance. In such capacity, Mr. Rice was responsible for revenue management, air/sea,
groups, international operations, decision support, reservations and customer service for both Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises. As part of his responsibilities, Mr. Rice oversees revenue performance.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime, since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design
and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and
Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.



