Item 1. Business.

General

We are the world’s second largest cruise company. We control and operate four global cruise brands:Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and, most recently, Silversea Cruises (collectively, our "Global Brands"). We also own a50%joint venture interest in the German brand TUI Cruises and a49%interest in the Spanish brand Pullmantur (collectively, our "Partner Brands"). Together, our Global Brands and our Partner Brands operate a combined total of60ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately135,520berths as ofDecember 31, 2018.

Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on more than1,000destinations on allsevencontinents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world, which primarily focus on sales and market development.

We compete principally by operating valued brands that offer exceptional service provided by our crew and on the basis of innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate many of our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests.

We believe cruising continues to be a popular vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities. In addition, we believe our brands are well-positioned globally and possess the ability to attract a wide range of guests by appealing to multiple customer bases allowing our global sourcing to be well diversified.

Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure has evolved over the years and, the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.

Our Global Brands

Our Global Brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and Silversea Cruises.

We believe our Global Brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our Global Brands has its own marketing style, as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our Global Brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our Global Brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our Global Brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our Global Brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value.









Royal Caribbean International

Royal Caribbean International is positioned to compete in both the contemporary and premium segments of the cruise vacation industry. The brand appeals to families with children of all ages, as well as both older and younger couples, providing cruises that generally feature a casual ambiance, as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand allows it to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry. Royal Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal and New Zealand, with cruise lengths ranging from two to 23 nights. Royal Caribbean International offers multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. Because of the brand’s ability to deliver extensive and innovative product offerings at an excellent value to consumers, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to cruising and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.

Royal Caribbean International operates25ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately82,500berths, including the brand's newest ship,Symphony of the Seas, which entered service in March 2018. Additionally, as ofDecember 31, 2018, we havefiveships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately25,300berths. These ships consist of our fourth and fifth Quantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively, our fifth Oasis-class ship, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2021, and the first two ships of a new generation, known as our Icon-class, which are expected to enter service in 2022 and 2024, respectively.

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to target affluent consumers by delivering a destination-rich, modern luxury experience on upscale ships that offer, among other things, luxurious accommodations, refined design-forward spaces, high-standard service and fine dining. Celebrity Cruises offers a range of itineraries to destinations, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Galapagos Islands, Hawaii, India, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America, with cruise lengths ranging from two to 19 nights.

Celebrity Cruises operates13ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately26,070berths, including the brand's first Edge-class ship,Celebrity Edge,which entered service in December 2018. Additionally, as ofDecember 31, 2018, we havefourships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately9,400berths. These ships consist ofthreeEdge-class ships, which are expected to enter service in the second quarter of 2020 and the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2022, respectively, and a ship designed for the Galapagos Islands, which is expected to enter service in the second quarter of 2019.

Azamara Club Cruises

Azamara Club Cruises is designed to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom and Australian markets. The up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium segment and the luxury segment, which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service and exotic itineraries. Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destinationexperiences through unique itineraries with more overnights and longer stays as well as comprehensive tours allowing guests to experience the destination in more depth. Azamara Club Cruises offers a variety of itineraries to popular destinations, including Asia, Australia/New Zealand, Northern and Western Europe, the Mediterranean, Cuba and South America with cruise lengths ranging from four to 21 nights.

Azamara Club Cruises operatesthreeships with an aggregate capacity of approximately2,100berths, includingAzamara Pursuit, which entered service during the third quarter of 2018.

Silversea Cruises

On July 31, 2018, we acquired a66.7%equity stake in Silversea Cruise Holding Ltd. ("Silversea Cruises"), an ultra-luxury and expedition cruise line. Refer to Note3.Business Combinationsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further information on the Silversea Cruises acquisition.









Silversea Cruises, formed in the early 1990's, is positioned as a luxury cruise line with smaller ships, high standards of accommodations, fine dining, personalized service and exotic itineraries. Silversea Cruises delivers distinctive destination experiences by visiting unique and remote destinations, including the Galapagos Islands, Antarctica and the Arctic.

Silversea Cruises operatesnineships, with an aggregate capacity of approximately2,650berths offering cruise itineraries generally ranging from six to 25 nights. As ofDecember 31, 2018, Silversea Cruises hasthreeships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately1,200berths, which are scheduled for delivery in the first and third quarter of 2020 and the third quarter of 2021, respectively. Additionally, Silversea Cruises signed a memorandum of understanding with Meyer Werft to build two ships of a new generation, which are expected to enter service in 2022 and 2023, respectively. The memorandum of understanding with Meyer Werft is contingent upon completion of final documentation and financing, which are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2019.

Our Partner Brands

Our Global Brands are complemented by our50%joint venture interest in TUI Cruises, which is specifically tailored for the German market and our49%interest in the Spanish brand Pullmantur, which is primarily focused on the Spanish and Latin American cruise markets. We account for our investments in our Partner Brands under the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, the operating results of these Partner Brands are not included in our consolidated results of operations. Refer to Note1.Generaland Note8.Other Assetsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.

TUI Cruises

TUI Cruises is a joint venture owned50%by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism company, which is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a product tailored for German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market.

TUI Cruises operatessixships, with an aggregate capacity of approximately14,750berths as ofDecember 31, 2018. Additionally, TUI Cruises hasfourships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately13,900berths, of which one ship was delivered in January 2019 and the remaining ships on order are scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2023, the third quarter of 2024 and the first quarter of 2026, respectively.

Pullmantur

The Pullmantur brand is a joint venture owned49%by us and51%by Cruises Investment Holdings S.A.R.L., an affiliate of Springwater Capital LLC. Pullmantur operates in the contemporary segment of the Spanish and Latin American cruise markets and is designed to attract Spanish-speaking families and couples and includes Spanish-speaking crew, as well as tailored food and entertainment options. Thefourships operated by Pullmantur have an aggregate capacity of approximately7,450berths.

SkySea Cruises

In March 2018, we and Ctrip.com International Ltd. announced the decision to end the Skysea Holding International Ltd. ("Skysea Holding") venture in which we have a36%ownership interest. In September 2018, Skysea Holding ceased cruising operations and in December 2018, theGolden Era, the ship operated by Skysea Cruises, and owned by the wholly-owned subsidiary of Skysea Holding, was sold to an affiliate of TUI AG, our joint venture partner in TUI Cruises.

Industry

Cruising is considered a well-established vacation sector in the North American and European markets and a developing sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that market penetration rates are still low and that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.









The following table details industry market penetration rates for North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific computed based on the number of annual cruise guests as a percentage of the total population:

YearNorth America(1)(2)Europe(1)(3)Asia/Pacific(1)(4)20143.46%1.23%0.06%20153.36%1.25%0.08%20163.43%1.23%0.11%20173.56%1.28%0.15%20183.59%1.31%0.19%

___________________________________________________________________

(1)Source: Our estimates are based on a combination of data obtained from publicly available sources including the International Monetary Fund, United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Cruise Lines International Association ("CLIA") and G.P. Wild. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

(2)Our estimates include the United States and Canada.

(3)Our estimates include European countries relevant to the industry (most notably: the Nordics, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom).

(4)Our estimates include the Southeast Asia (most notably: Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines), East Asia (most notably: China and Japan), South Asia (most notably: India and Pakistan) and Oceania (most notably: Australia and Fiji Islands) regions.

We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by a weighted average of approximately546,000berths during2018with approximately323ships at the end of2018. As ofDecember 31, 2018, there were approximately89ships with an estimated198,000berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between2019and2023, although it is also possible that ships could be ordered or taken out of service during these periods. We estimate that the global cruise industry carried approximately28.0 millioncruise guests in2018compared to approximately26.7 millioncruise guests carried in2017and approximately24.0 millioncruise guests carried in2016.

The following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the global, North American, European and Asia/Pacific cruise guests over the past five years (in thousands, except berth data):

YearWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Total Berths(2)GlobalCruiseGuests(1)North American Cruise Guests(1)(3)European Cruise Guests(1)(4)Asia/Pacific Cruise Guests(1)(5)2014448,000105,75022,03912,2696,3872,3822015469,000112,70023,00012,0046,5873,1292016493,000123,27024,00012,2746,5124,4662017515,000124,07026,70012,8656,7795,4152018546,000135,52028,00013,0546,9867,006

___________________________________________________________________

(1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources. We use data obtained from Seatrade Insider, Cruise Industry News and company press releases to estimate weighted-average supply of berths and CLIA and G.P. Wild to estimate cruise guest information. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

(2)Total berths include our berths related to our Global Brands and Partner Brands.

(3)Our estimates include the United States and Canada.









(4)Our estimates include European countries relevant to the industry (most notably: the Nordics, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom).

(5)Our estimates include the Southeast Asia (most notably: Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines), East Asia (most notably: China and Japan), South Asia (most notably: India and Pakistan) and Oceania (most notably: Australia and Fiji Islands) regions.

North America

Industry cruise guests are primarily sourced from North America, which represented approximately47%of global cruise guests in2018. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately2%from2014to2018.

Europe

Industry cruise guests sourced from Europe represented approximately25%of global cruise guests in2018. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately2%from2014to2018.

Asia/Pacific

Industry cruise guests sourced from the Asia/Pacific region represented approximately25%of global cruise guests in2018. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately31%from2014to2018. The Asia/Pacific region is experiencing the highest growth rate of the major regions, although it represents a relatively small sector compared to North America.

Competition

We compete with a number of cruise lines. Our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, P&O Cruises, Princess Cruises and Seabourn; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; and Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd, which owns Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. Cruise lines also compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels, Internet-based alternative lodging sites and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time. Interest for such activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.

Operating Strategies

Our principal operating strategies are to:

•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees,

•protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,

•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,

•strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues,

•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally,

•focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value,

•strategically invest in our fleet through the upgrade and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations, while prudently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the-art cruise ships,

•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,

•further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner, while supporting our strategic focus on profitability, and

•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, which continue to be the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our consumer outreach programs.









Safety, environment and health policies

We are committed to protecting the health, safety and security of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. We are also focused on the environmental health of the marine environment and communities in which we operate. Our efforts in these areas are guided by a Maritime Advisory Board of experts, overseen by the Safety, Environment and Health Committee of our board of directors and managed by our dedicated Safety, Environment and Health Department, which is responsible for all of our maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and medical/public health activities.

We believe in transparent reporting on our safety, environment and health performance, as well as our corporate responsibility efforts, and annually publish a Sustainability Report. This report, which is accessible on our corporate website, highlights our progress with regards to those environmental and social aspects of our business that we believe are most significant to our organization and stakeholders. In addition to providing an overview, the report complies with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative to ensure the report is as complete and accurate as possible. Our corporate website also provides information about our sustainability initiatives, environmental performance goals and our voluntary reporting of onboard security incidents. The foregoing information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Human capital

We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business. We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain the best employees, who provide our guests with extraordinary vacations. Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and will remain critical to our success.

We focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure and development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital. We also select, develop and have strategies to retain high performing leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future. To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing potential leaders and developing bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining a strong employee-focused culture is beneficial to the growth and expansion of our business.

Consumer engagement

We place a strong focus on identifying the needs of our guests and creating product features and innovations that our customers value. We are focused on targeting high-value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights to create communication strategies that resonate with our target audiences.

We target customers across all touch points and identify underlying needs for which guests are willing to pay a premium. We rely on various programs and technologies during the cruise-planning, cruising and after-cruise periods aimed at increasing ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy. We have and continue to strategically invest in onboard projects on our ships that we believe drive marketability, profitability and improve the guest experience.

Global awareness and market penetration

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including the use of communication strategies and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the qualities of each brand and to broaden the awareness of the brand, especially among target groups. Our marketing strategies include the use of travel agencies, traditional media, mobile and digital media as well as social media, influencers and brand websites. Our brands engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives. In addition, our Global Brands target repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.

We sell and market our Global Brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and Silversea Cruises, to guests outside of the United States and Canada through our commercial teams located in Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of approximately76independent international









representatives located throughout the world covering more than180countries. Historically, our focus has been to primarily source guests for our Global Brands from North America. We continue to expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America by tailoring itineraries and onboard product offerings to the cultural characteristics and preferences of our international guests. In addition, we explore opportunities that may arise to acquire or develop brands tailored to specific markets.

Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately39%of total passenger ticket revenues in2018,41%in2017and45%in2016. International guests have grown from approximately2.2 millionin2014to approximately2.3 millionin2018. Refer to Item 1A.Risk Factors- “Conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks”for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations.

Cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity

We have adopted a number of strategies to control our operating costs and will continue to do so in 2019. For example, we have adopted numerous initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. These include the design of more energy-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, HVAC and lighting systems. The overall impact of these efforts has resulted in an approximate 30% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2018 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry. In order to sustain our competitive advantage, we will continue to seek to lead with innovative technologies and commit to achieve our short and long-term sustainability goals.

We are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, investment grade credit metrics and a balanced debt maturity profile. We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our long-term shareholder value.

Fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion

We place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet through modernization projects. Several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands. For the Royal Caribbean International brand, we introduced the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) and, more recently, interior balconies on the Oasis class ships and a two-level family suite onSymphony of the Seas. For the Celebrity Cruises brand, we enhanced many of the brand's design features through the introduction of the Solstice class ships. More recently, with the introduction ofCelebrity Edge, the first ship of a new generation of ships, we introduced the "Magic Carpet" (a cantilevered, floating platform that reaches a height of 13 stories above sea level and can serve as a dining venue, full bar and platform for live music) and newly designed staterooms with an "Infinite Veranda" where, with the touch of a button, the entire living space becomes the veranda.

In 2018, the Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises brands announced the "Royal Amplified" and "Celebrity Revolution" modernization programs to upgrade vessels across their fleet. As part of these modernization programs, we incorporate certain innovations included in our newer ships to some of the ships in the remaining fleet. The process of integrating some of our latest innovations into our older vessels allows us to create a greater level of consistency of product across our fleet.

As part of the newbuild and modernization programs, we also seek to bring innovations in the areas of safety, reliability and energy efficiency to our fleet.

We are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. Our newer vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than older vessels.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, our Global Brands and Partner Brands have16ships on order. Refer to theOperationssection below for further information on our ships on order.

In addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet. In the current environment of high industry demand, we recently have placed new ship orders earlier than we have historically done as well as more aggressively sought to sell older capacity.









Markets and itineraries

In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships allows us to deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. We make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. Additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model have made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries.

Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on more than1,000destinations in126countries, spanning all seven continents. We are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the Asian and Australian markets. The recent acquisition of Silversea Cruises adds more than 500 new destinations allowing us to expand and enhance our selection of exotic itineraries. Additionally, in order to provide unique destination experiences to our guests, we are investing in our private land destinations. For instance, in 2018, we announcedPerfect Day Island Collection, an initiative to develop a series of private island destinations around the world. The first in the collection,Perfect Dayat CocoCay, is scheduled to open in Spring 2019 and will include a wide range of attractions, such as a water park, zip line, wave and freshwater pools and overwater cabanas, to deliver a unique family experience.

Also, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the Caribbean, Asia and Australia during that period.

In an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. For instance, in late 2018, a new cruise terminal of approximately 170,000 square feet was completed at PortMiami in Miami, Florida, serving as one of our homeports. Generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. Our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships.

Technological capabilities

The need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. Technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise.

In the past year, we have digitalized the guest journey from port check-in and onboard purchases to digital stateroom features. As the use of our various websites, mobile and social media platforms continue to increase both on shore and shipboard by both our guests and crew, we continually invest in our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. For instance, in 2018, we continued to advance our onboard technology in areas such as Internet connectivity at sea, stateroom automation and guest-to-guest chat.

Additionally, we continue to invest in our distribution channels to ensure the best go-to-market approach, whether through travel partners or direct to customer. Commensurate with our destination strategy, we intend to invest in technology to service our guests seamlessly as they transition from ship to our private destinations to enjoy Internet connectivity or local activities.

Cyber security and data privacy are a continued focus, and we have made and will continue to make investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations.









Travel agency support and consumer outreach

Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace. We provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. We also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools.

In addition, we continue to operate our Consumer Outreach department, which provides consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. In addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, including the ability to add a variety of onboard amenities. We enable our guests to communicate and book with us through various channels such as phone, web, chat, text message, and/or email.

We also have a robust Onboard Cruise Sales department to help guests to book their next cruise vacations while onboard our ships.

Guest Services

We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation.

Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and Silversea Cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, Crown & Anchor Society, Captain’s Club, Le Club Voyage and Venetian Society, respectively, to encourage repeat business. Crown & Anchor Society has approximately

13 million

members worldwide. Captain’s Club, Le Club Voyage and Venetian Society have approximately

4.5 million

members combined worldwide. Members are recognized through increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. Members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category. The loyalty programs provide tiers of membership benefits which entitle guests to upgraded experiences and rewards relative to the status achieved once the guests have accumulated the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier. In addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. Examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary Internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days. We regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests.









Operations

Cruise Ships and Itineraries

As ofDecember 31, 2018, our Global Brands and Partner Brands collectively operated60ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on more than1,000destinations.

The following table presents summary information concerning the ships we expect to operate in2019under our Global Brands and Partner Brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current2019itineraries (subject to change).





ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered/Will Enter Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Spectrum of the Seas201920194,250Eastern Asia

Symphony of the Seas201820185,500Eastern/Western Caribbean

Harmony of the Seas201620165,450Eastern/Western Caribbean

Ovation of the Seas201620164,100Australia, Alaska

Anthem of the Seas201520154,150Southern Caribbean, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada

Quantum of the Seas201420144,150Eastern Asia

Allure of the Seas201020105,450Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas200920095,450Eastern/Western Caribbean, Europe

Independence of the Seas200820083,850Western Caribbean, Europe

Liberty of the Seas200720073,750Western Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas200620063,750Southern Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas200420042,150Western/Southern Caribbean, Europe, Middle East

Mariner of the Seas200320033,300Bahamas

Serenade of the Seas200320032,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Navigator of the Seas200220023,250Western/Southern Caribbean, Bahamas

Brilliance of the Seas200220022,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Adventure of the Seas200120013,300Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bahamas, Canada

Radiance of the Seas200120012,100Australia, Alaska

Explorer of the Seas200020003,250Australia, Europe, Western/Southern Caribbean

Voyager of the Seas199919993,250Eastern Asia, Australia

Vision of the Seas199819982,000Western/Southern Caribbean, Europe

Enchantment of the Seas199719972,250Western Caribbean

Rhapsody of the Seas199719972,000Western Caribbean, Europe

Grandeur of the Seas199619961,950Bahamas, Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Majesty of the Seas199219922,350Western Caribbean, Cuba

Empress of the Seas199020161,550Cuba

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Flora20192019100Galapagos Islands

Celebrity Edge201820182,900Eastern/Western Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Reflection201220123,000Southern Caribbean, Europe













ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered/Will Enter Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Celebrity Silhouette201120112,850Southern Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Eclipse201020102,850South America, Alaska

Celebrity Equinox200920092,850Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice200820082,850Australia, Alaska

Celebrity Xploration2007201620Galapagos Islands

Celebrity Constellation200220022,150Middle East, India, Europe

Celebrity Summit200120012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Celebrity Infinity200120012,150Western Caribbean, Bahamas, Europe

Celebrity Xpedition20012004100Galapagos Islands

Celebrity Millennium200020002,150Eastern Asia, Alaska

Celebrity Xperience1982201650Galapagos Islands

Azamara Club Cruises

Azamara Pursuit20012018700South America, Europe

Azamara Quest20002007700Australia, Asia, Alaska

Azamara Journey20002007700Cuba, Europe

Silversea Cruises

Muse20172017550Australia, Asia, Alaska

Spirit20092009600Southern Caribbean, Europe, Asia

Whisper20012001350Southern Caribbean, Europe

Shadow20002000350Asia, Europe, Southern Caribbean

Wind19951995250Southern Caribbean, Europe, Canada

Cloud19941994250South America, Europe

Galapagos19902013100Galapagos Islands

Discoverer19892014100Africa, Australia, Asia

Explorer19892008100South America, Europe

Pullmantur

Zenith199220141,400Europe

Monarch199120132,350Southern Caribbean

Horizon199020101,400Middle East, Europe

Sovereign198820082,300South America, Europe

TUI Cruises

Mein Schiff 2(2)201920192,850Europe, Southern Caribbean

Mein Schiff 1(3)201820182,850Europe, Canada, Western Caribbean

Mein Schiff 6201720172,500Western Caribbean, Europe, Asia

Mein Schiff 5201620162,500Southern Caribbean, Europe, Middle East

Mein Schiff 4201520152,500Middle East, Europe

Mein Schiff 3201420142,500Asia, Europe

Mein Schiff Herz199720111,900Europe

Total142,720

__________________________________________________________________

(1)The year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced or is expected to commence cruise revenue operations for the brand.

(2)TUI Cruises' newbuild entered service asMein Schiff 2in February 2019 and the existingMein Schiff 2was renamedMein Schiff Herz.

(3)TUI Cruises' newbuild entered service asMein Schiff 1and the existingMein Schiff 1, not included above, was transferred to an affiliate of TUI AG, our joint venture partner in TUI Cruises.









As ofDecember 31, 2018, our Global Brands and our Partner Brands have16ships on order. Two ships on order are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH, four are being built in Finland by Meyer Turku shipyard, four are being built in France by Chantiers de l’Atlantique (formerly known as STX France), four are being built in Italy by Fincantieri and two are being built in the Netherlands by De Hoop Lobith. As ofDecember 31, 2018, the expected dates that the ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows:

ShipExpected to EnterServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International —Oasis-class:Unnamed2nd Quarter 20215,500Quantum-class:Spectrum of the Seas2nd Quarter 20194,250Odyssey of the Seas4th Quarter 20204,250Icon-class:Unnamed2nd Quarter 20225,650Unnamed2nd Quarter 20245,650Celebrity Cruises —Edge-class:Celebrity Apex2nd Quarter 20202,900Unnamed4th Quarter 20213,200Unnamed4th Quarter 20223,200Celebrity Flora2nd Quarter 2019100Silversea Cruises —Silver Origin1st Quarter 2020100Silver Moon3rd Quarter 2020550Silver Dawn3rd Quarter 2021550TUI Cruises (50% joint venture)—Mein Schiff 2(1)1st Quarter 20192,850Mein Schiff 72nd Quarter 20232,850Unnamed3rd Quarter 20244,100Unnamed1st Quarter 20264,100Total Berths49,800

___________________________________________________________________

(1)TUI Cruises' newbuild entered service asMein Schiff 2in February 2019.

In addition, in September 2018, Silversea Cruises signed a memorandum of understanding with Meyer Werft to build two ships of a new generation of ships. The ships are expected to have an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,200 berths and are expected to enter service in 2022 and 2023, respectively. The memorandum of understanding with Meyer Werft is contingent upon the completion of final documentation and financing, which are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2019.

In February 2019, we entered into an agreement with Chantiers de l’Atlantique to build the sixth Oasis-class ship for Royal Caribbean International. The ship is expected to have an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,700 berths and is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2023. The order with Chantiers de l’Atlantique is contingent upon completion of conditions precedent and financing, which is expected to be completed in 2019.









Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the Caribbean, Asia and Australia during that period.

Passengers and Capacity

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (seeFinancial Presentation-Description of Certain Line ItemsandSelected Operational and Financial Metricsunder Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):

Year Ended December 31,2018(1)20172016(2)20152014Passengers Carried6,084,2015,768,4965,754,7475,401,8995,149,952Passenger Cruise Days41,853,05240,033,52740,250,55738,523,06036,710,966Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)38,425,30436,930,93937,844,64436,646,63934,773,915Occupancy108.9%108.4%106.4%105.1%105.6%

___________________________________________________________________

(1)These amounts include only August and September 2018 amounts for Silversea Cruises due to the three-month reporting lag. Refer to Note 1.Generaland Note 3.Business Combinationto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor more information on the three-month reporting lag and the Silversea Cruises acquisition.

(2)These amounts do not include November and December 2015 amounts for Pullmantur as the net Pullmantur result for those months was included withinOther expensein our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2016, as a result of the elimination of the Pullmantur two-month reporting lag, and did not affect Gross Yields, Net Yields, Gross Cruise Costs, Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel. Additionally, effective August 2016, we no longer include Pullmantur in these amounts.

Cruise Pricing

Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. Prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. Although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. Our cruises are generally available for sale at least one year in advance and often more than two years in advance of sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields.

As we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. For instance, although our direct business is growing at a rapid pace, sale arrangements through travel agent charter and group sales are proportionately higher in the China market than in our other markets which are primarily through retail agency and direct sales.

We have developed and implemented enhancements to our reservations system that provide us and our travel partners with additional capabilities, making it easier to do business with us.

We offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost which vary by gateway and destination.

Passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately72%of total revenues in2018,2017and2016.

Onboard Activities and Other Revenues

Our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship. While many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, Internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions,









retail shops and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. Many of these services are available for pre-booking prior to embarkation. These activities are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires from which we receive a percentage of their revenues.

In conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, and Silversea Cruises guests. We also offer cruise vacation protection coverage to guests in a number of markets, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. Onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately28%of total revenues in2018,2017and2016.

Segment Reporting

We control and operate four cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, and Silversea Cruises. In addition, we have a

50%

investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the German brand TUI Cruises, a

49%

interest in the Spanish brand Pullmantur and a

36%

interest in the Chinese brand SkySea Cruises, which ceased cruising operations in September 2018. We believe our brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, our brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.

(

For financial information, see Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.)

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2018, our Global Brands employed approximately77,000employees, including70,000shipboard employees as well as7,000full-time and100part-time employees in our shoreside operations. As ofDecember 31, 2018, approximately89%of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. This coverage is maintained with reputable insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other reputable international insurance markets.

We are members of four Protection and Indemnity ("P&I") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 P&I clubs, known as the International Group of P&I Clubs (the “IG”). Liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims in connection with our cruise activities are covered by our P&I clubs, subject to the clubs’ rules and the limits of coverage determined by the IG. P&I coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 P&I clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the IG are exhausted. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers.

We maintain war risk insurance for legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as for loss or damage to our vessels arising from acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking. Our primary war risk coverage is provided by a Norwegian war risk insurance association and our excess war risk insurance is provided by our four P&I clubs. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, our coverage is subject to cancellation in the event of a change in risk. In the event of a war between major powers, our primary policies terminate after thirty days’ notice and our excess policies terminate immediately. Our excess policies are also subject to cancellation after a notice period of seven days in the event of other changes in risk. These notice periods allow for premiums to be renegotiated based on changes in risk.









Insurance coverage for other exposures, such as shoreside property and casualty, passenger off-vessel, directors and officers and network security and privacy, are maintained with various global insurance companies.

We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance.

All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and Silversea Cruises cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean International” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its globe with an “A” logo, the name “Silversea Cruises” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names, ship venues and other marketing programs. We believe our largest brands' trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.

Regulation

Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case of our ships operating in the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships operating out of ports of call around the world are also subject to inspection by the maritime authorities of that country for compliance with international treaties and local regulations. Additionally, ships operating out of the United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary and health conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.

We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Safety and Security Regulations

Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), which, among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, lifesaving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and changes are incorporated into the operation of our ships. Compliance with these modified standards have not historically had a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators.

All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities, and we are required to maintain the relevant certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.









Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports.  In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.

The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. The cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. A few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized. We do not expect the proposed regulations will have a material impact to our operations.

Environmental Regulations

We are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below.

Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (‘‘IMO’’) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the ‘‘MARPOL Regulations’’) and the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (Ballast Water Management Convention), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage, air emissions and the transfer of non-native/non-indigenous species. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage, air pollution prevention and ballast water for all of our ships.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of emissions emitted by ships operating worldwide to 3.5%, which will be further reduced to 0.5% beginning in January 2020.We do not expect this reduced limitation will have a material impact to our results of operations largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("AEP") systems covering all engines and actively developing and testing AEP systems on the majority of our remaining fleet.

The MARPOL Regulations also establish special Emission Control Areas (‘‘ECAs’’) with stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. There are four established ECAs that restrict sulfur emissions: the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, certain waters surrounding the North American coast, and the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands (the “Caribbean ECA”). Ships operating in these sulfur ECAs have been required to reduce their emissions sulfur content from 1.0% to 0.1%. This reduction has not had a significant impact on our results of operations to date due to the mitigating steps described above.

We continue to implement our AEP system strategy both for our ships on order and for the majority of the ships on our fleet. As our new ships are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility. From 2014 to 2017, we had in place exemptions for 19 of our ships which applied while they were sailing in the North American and Caribbean ECAs. These exemptions delayed the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of AEP systems on these ships. By the end of 2018, we completed installations on all ships covered by the exemptions. We believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to continue an effective AEP system retrofit strategy for our fleet.

All new ships that began construction after January 1, 2016 are required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits when operating within the North American and U.S. Caribbean Sea ECA. We comply with these rules









for those relevant ships in service. All of our ships under construction are being built to comply with these rules. These rules have not had and are not expected to have a significant impact to our operations or costs.

Effective July 1, 2015, the European Commission adopted legislation that requires cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the European Union to monitor and report on the ship’s annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. Compliance with this regulation did not have a material impact to our costs or results of operations in 2018. Additionally, in 2019, the IMO's monitoring and reporting system (IMO data and collection system), which is applicable to all ship itineraries, will enter into force. While we do not expect compliance with either of these regulations to materially impact our costs or results of operations, the legislations both present the new monitoring and reporting requirements as the first step of a staged approach, which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions.

The IMO Ballast Water Management Convention, which came in effect in 2017, requires ships that carry and discharge ballast water to meet specific discharge standards by installing Ballast Water Treatment Systems within the next five years. Compliance with this regulation has not had a material effect on our results of operations and we do not expect the continuing compliance with this regulation to have a material effect on our results of operations.

Refer to Item 1A.Risk Factors - "Environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase costs"for further discussion of the risks associated with the regulations discussed above.

Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. As a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we generally arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for our ship-operating companies. The required amount is currently$30.0 millionper operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments.

We are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions.  In the United Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately£74 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in Norway, Finland and the Baltics. These amounts ranged fromNOK 44 milliontoNOK 116 millionduring2018.

Certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Taxation of the Company

The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. In addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure. We also collect and remit value added tax (VAT) or sales tax in many jurisdictions where we operate.

Our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation.

U.S. Income Taxation

The following is a discussion of the application of the U.S. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.









Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

We, Celebrity Cruises, Inc. and Silversea Cruises Ltd. are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may earn U.S. source income. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) U.S. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our U.K. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for U.S. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883.

Regulations under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. Our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the United States will be subject to U.S. taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption Under Section 883

If we, the operator of our vessels, Celebrity Cruises Inc., Silversea Cruises Ltd., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to U.S. income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships.

Because we, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and Silversea Cruises Ltd. conduct a trade or business in the United States, we, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and Silversea Cruises Ltd. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our U.S. trade or business (generally only income from U.S. sources). In addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our U.S. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our U.S. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a “branch profits” tax at the rate of 30%. We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and Silversea Cruises Ltd. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.

If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a









special 4% tax on its U.S. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United States Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and Silversea Cruises Ltd. earn U.S. source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented.

State Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc., Silversea Cruises Ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various U.S. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the U.S. source income subject to federal income taxes.  Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law. Among other things, the new legislation reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, resulting in an immaterial benefit in 2017 related to the reduction of our U.S. deferred tax liability. Although there are a number of provisions which apply to us, there was no material impact to our overall tax expense as a result of the legislation.

Maltese and Spanish Income Taxation

Effective July 31, 2016, we sold 51% of our interest in Pullmantur Holdings S.L. ("Pullmantur Holdings"), the parent company of the Pullmantur brand. We account for our retained investment under the equity method of accounting. There was no tax impact to us as a result of this sale transaction.  The surviving Pullmantur company continues to be subject to the tax laws of Spain and Malta, among others.

Under the sale agreement, we remain responsible for pre-sale tax matters with respect to years that are still open under the statute of limitations.

United Kingdom Income Taxation

During the year ended December 31,2018, we operated 16 ships under the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”).

Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to U.K. corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our U.K. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to regular U.K. corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Taxation

Previously, Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company chartered certain ships to Brazilian subsidiary companies for operations in Brazil. Both Pullmantur and Royal Caribbean International ceased charters to Brazilian subsidiary companies in January 2016 and March 2016, respectively. While Brazilian charters took place, the Brazilian subsidiaries' earnings were subject to Brazilian taxation which was not considered significant.  The charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur were exempt from Brazilian income tax under Brazilian









domestic law. Additionally, remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the Brazilian market are subject to taxation.

Chinese Taxation

Our U.K. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in China. The income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in China under the U.K./China double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. Changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. Our Chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to Chinese taxation.

Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt.

Website Access to Reports

We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclcorporate.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.









Executive Officers of the Company

As ofFebruary 22, 2019, our executive officers are:

NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain71Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorJason T. Liberty43Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerMichael W. Bayley60President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalLisa Lutoff-Perlo61President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesLawrence Pimentel67President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesHarri U. Kulovaara66Executive Vice President, MaritimeBradley H. Stein63Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance OfficerHenry L. Pujol51Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1981 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for over 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as Chairman of the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), the largest cruise industry trade association. He currently serves as Chairman of the University of Miami Board of Trustees as well as serving on the National Board of the Posse Foundation. He is also former chairman of the Miami Business Forum, the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau, and the United Way of Miami-Dade.

Jason T. Liberty has been employed by the Company since 2005 and has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2013. From May 2013 to February 2017, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and from February 2017 to May 2018, Mr. Liberty served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, in each case overseeing the Company’s Treasury, Accounting, Corporate, Strategic and Revenue Planning, Corporate Development, Deployment, Internal Audit and Investor Relations functions. Since May 2018, in addition to the above functions, he has also overseen the Company’s Information Technology, Supply Chain, Risk Management, Legal and Port Operations functions. Prior to his role as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Liberty served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Finance from September 2012 through May 2013, overseeing the Company’s Corporate and Strategic Planning, Treasury, Investor Relations and Deployment functions.  Prior to this, Mr. Liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as Vice President of Corporate and Revenue Planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as Vice President of Corporate and Strategic Planning. Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Liberty was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.

Michael W. Bayley has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Royal Caribbean International since December 2014. Prior to this, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since August 2012.  Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an Assistant Purser onboard one of the Company’s ships.  He has served in a number of roles including as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012 until August 2012. Other positions Mr. Bayley has held include Executive Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012; Senior Vice President, International from December 2007 to May 2010; Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International; and Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

Lisa Lutoff-Perlo has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since December 2014. Prior to this, she served as Executive Vice President, Operations for Royal Caribbean International from September 2012 to December 2014, where she was responsible for all of Royal Caribbean International's hotel, marine and port operations. Ms. Lutoff-Perlo has been employed with the Company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both Celebrity Cruises and Royal Caribbean International.  She started at Royal Caribbean International as District Sales Manager for New England and from August 2008 to August 2012 she was responsible for Celebrity Cruises’ hotel operation.









Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009.  From 2001 until January 2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and Mediterranean.  From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Cunard Line.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Bradley H. Stein has served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company since 2006.  He has also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company since February 2009 and February 2011, respectively. Mr. Stein has been with Royal Caribbean since 1992.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Stein worked in private practice in New York and Miami.

Henry L. Pujol has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since May 2013. Mr. Pujol originally joined Royal Caribbean in 2004 as Assistant Controller and was promoted to Corporate Controller in May 2007. Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Pujol was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.











