Item 1. Business.



General



Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure evolved over the years and the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.



We are the world’s second largest cruise company.  We own Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club Cruises, CDF Croisières de France and a 50% joint venture interest in TUI Cruises.  Together, these six brands operate a combined 41 ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately 98,750 berths as of December 31, 2013.



Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately 490 destinations on all seven continents.  In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world which primarily focus on our global guest sourcing.



We compete principally on the basis of exceptional service provided by our crew, innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price.  We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and revitalization of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests.



We believe cruising continues to be a widely accepted vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities.  In addition, we believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic.



Our Brands



Our global brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Club Cruises.  These brands are complemented by our Pullmantur brand, which has been tailored to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America; our CDF Croisières de France brand, which provides us with a tailored product targeted at the French market; and our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises which is specifically tailored for the German market.  The operating results of all of our brands are included in our consolidated results of operations, except for TUI Cruises, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  See Note 1.Generaland Note 6.Other Assetsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.



We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision









of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap.  As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value.



Royal Caribbean International



We currently operate 21 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 59,650 berths under our Royal Caribbean International brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, Royal Caribbean International is scheduled to take delivery of the 4,150 berthQuantumof the Seas, its first newbuild since 2010 and the first of a new generation of cruise ships.  In addition, we currently have three other ships on order for our Royal Caribbean International brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 13,700 berths.  These include our third Oasis-class ship, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016 and the second and third Quantum-class ships which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2016.  Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal, South America and New Zealand.



Royal Caribbean International is positioned at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or shorter and feature a casual ambiance as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand also enables it to attract guests from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent.  This allows Royal Caribbean International to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry.  Royal Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International’s product offerings represent excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children.  Because of the brand’s extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.



Royal Caribbean International has a vessel revitalization program designed to incorporate certain of the most popular features of our newer ships across the fleet.  From 2011 to 2013, a total of 12 ships have been revitalized under this program.  An additional two ships are scheduled for revitalization in 2014.



Celebrity Cruises



We currently operate 11 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 24,900 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from three to 18 nights.  Celebrity Cruises offers a variety of itineraries to popular destinations, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America.



Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry.  Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to target experienced cruisers and quality and service oriented new cruisers by delivering a destination-rich experience onboard upscale ships that offer, among other things, luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine dining, personalized service and extensive spa facilities.  The brand has a vessel revitalization program in order to incorporate well-received concepts from its Solstice-class ships.



Azamara Club Cruises



We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from four to 18 nights.  Azamara Club Cruises is designed









to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom and Australian markets.  The up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium segment and the luxury segment which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service, higher prices and exotic itineraries.



Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destination experiences through unique itineraries with more overnights and longer stays as well as thorough tours allowing guests to experience the destination in more depth.  Azamara Club Cruises’ focus is to attract experienced travelers who are looking for more comprehensive destination experiences, and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of service.  In furtherance of this strategy, Azamara Club Cruises includes as part of the base price of the cruise certain complimentary onboard services, amenities and activities which are not normally included in the base price of most other cruise lines.  Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Northern and Western Europe, the Mediterranean, South and Central America, the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean and North America.



Pullmantur



During 2013, we operated four ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 7,650 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering cruise itineraries that ranged from four to 12 nights throughout South America, the Caribbean and Europe.  One of these ships,Zenith, was redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France in January 2014. Pullmantur serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets.  Pullmantur's strategy is to attract cruise guests from these target markets by providing a variety of cruising options and onboard activities directed at couples and families traveling with children.  Over the last few years, Pullmantur has systematically increased its focus on Latin America.  In recognition of this, Pullmantur recently opened a regional head office in Panama to place the operating management closer to its largest and fastest growing market.



In order to facilitate Pullmantur's ability to focus on its core cruise business, in December 2013, Pullmantur reached an agreement to sell the majority of its interest in its land-based tour operations, travel agency and Pullmantur Air, the closing of which is subject to customary closing conditions. In connection with the agreement, we will retain a 19% interest in the non-core businesses.  We will retain ownership of the Pullmantur aircraft which will be dry leased to Pullmantur Air.



CDF Croisières de France



In January 2014, we redeployedZenithfrom Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France.  As a result, as of January 2014, we operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 2,750 berths under our CDF Croisières de France brand.  During the summer of 2014, CDF Croisières de France will operate both ships in Europe and, for the first time, the brand will operate in the Caribbean during the winter of 2014. In addition, CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean.  CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a brand tailored for French cruise guests.



TUI Cruises



TUI Cruises is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a product tailored for German guests.  All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market.  TUI Cruises operates two ships,Mein Schiff 1andMein Schiff 2, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 3,800 berths.  In addition, TUI Cruises has two ships on order, each with a capacity of 2,500 berths, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2015.  TUI Cruises is a joint venture owned 50% by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism and shipping company that also owns 51% of TUI Travel, a British tourism company.



Industry



Cruising is considered a well-established vacation sector in the North American market, a growing sector over the long-term in the European market and a developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets.









Industry data indicates that market penetration rates  are still low and that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.



The following table details market penetration rates for North America and Europe computed based on the number of annual cruise guests as a percentage of the total population:



YearNorth America(1)Europe(2)20093.0%1.0%20103.1%1.1%20113.4%1.1%20123.3%1.2%20133.4%1.2%

(1)Source: International Monetary Fund and Cruise Line International Association based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2009 through 2012.  Year 2013 amounts represent our estimates. Includes the United States of America and Canada.

(2)Source: International Monetary Fund and CLIA Europe, formerly European Cruise Council, for years 2009 through 2012.  Year 2013 amounts represent our estimates.



We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately 436,000 berths on approximately 269 ships at the end of 2013. There are approximately 26 ships with an estimated 71,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2014 and 2018, although it is also possible that ships could be ordered or taken out of service during these periods.  We estimate that the global cruise industry carried 21.3 million cruise guests in 2013 compared to 20.9 million cruise guests carried in 2012 and 20.2 million cruise guests carried in 2011.



The following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the global, North American and European cruise guests over the past five years:

YearWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Total BerthsGlobalCruiseGuests(1)North AmericanCruiseGuests(2)EuropeanCruiseGuests (3)2009363,00084,05017,340,00010,198,0005,000,0002010391,00092,30018,800,00010,781,0005,540,0002011412,00092,65020,227,00011,625,0005,894,0002012425,00098,65020,898,00011,640,0006,139,0002013432,00098,75021,300,00011,816,0006,399,000

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider, Cruise Industry News and Cruise Line International Association (“CLIA”). In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

(2)Source: Cruise Line International Association based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2009 through 2012.  Year 2013 amounts represent our estimates (see number 1 above). Includes the United States of America and Canada.

(3)Source:  CLIA Europe, formerly European Cruise Council, for years 2009 through 2012.  Year 2013 amounts represent our estimates (see number 1 above).











North America



The majority of cruise guests are sourced from North America, which represented approximately 56% of global cruise guests in 2013. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 3.2% from 2009 to 2013.



Europe



Cruise guests  sourced from Europe  represented approximately 30% of global cruise guests in 2013. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 6.0% from 2009 to 2013.



Other Markets



In addition to expected industry growth in North America and Europe, we expect the Asia/Pacific region to demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term, although it will continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to North America and Europe.  Based on industry data, cruise guests  sourced from the Asia/Pacific  region represented approximately 4.5% of global cruise guests in 2013.  The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately 15% from 2011 to 2013.



Competition



We compete with a number of cruise lines.  Our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises.  Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time.  Demand for such activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.



Operating Strategies



Our principal operating strategies are to:



•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,



•further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally,



•focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value,













•strategically invest in our fleet through the revitalization and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across each brand, while prudently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the-art cruise ships,



•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,



•further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner, while supporting our strategic focus on profitability, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, which continue to be the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our consumer outreach programs.



Safety, Environment and Health policies



We are committed to protecting the safety, environment and health of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf.  We are also committed to protecting the marine environment and communities in which we operate.  As part of this commitment, our Safety, Environment and Health Department oversees our maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and medical/public health activities.  Our dedication to these areas is guided by a Maritime Advisory Board of experts and overseen by the Safety, Environment and Health Committee of our Board of Directors.  We publicly share our safety, environment and health performance through our annual Stewardship Report and through our report under theGlobal Reporting Initiative, each of which can be accessed on our brand websites.  Our brand websites also provide information about our Environmental Performance Goals and our voluntary reporting of onboard security incidents.  The foregoing information contained on our websites is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Human capital



We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business.  We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain the best employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as our guest base.  Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and will remain critical to our success.



We continue our focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure, development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital.  We also seek to select, develop and retain leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future.  To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing potential leaders and developing deep bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization.  We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining our vibrant and distinctive culture is critical to the growth of our business.



Consumer engagement



We place a strong focus on identifying the needs of our guests and creating product features that our customers value.  We are focused on targeting high-value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights and creating communication strategies that best resonate with our target audiences.



We interact with customers across all touch points and seek to identify underlying needs for which guests are willing to pay a premium.  We rely on various programs prior to, during and after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy.  We have strategically invested in a number of projects onboard our ships, including the implementation of new onboard revenue initiatives that we believe drive profitability and improve the guest experience.









Global awareness and market penetration



We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including through the use of communication strategies and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the unique qualities of each brand and to broaden the awareness of the brand, especially among the brand target customer groups.  Our marketing strategies include the use of traditional media, social media, brand websites and travel agencies.  Our brands engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives.    In addition, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises target repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.



We also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies who generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to further developing and strengthening this very important distribution channel by continuing to focus the travel agents on the unique qualities of each of our brands.



We sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to guests outside of North America through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico.   We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of 36 independent international representatives located throughout the world covering 112 countries.  Historically, our focus has been to primarily source guests for our global brands from North America. Over the last several years, we have continued to expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America by tailoring itineraries and onboard product offerings to the cultural characteristics and preferences of our international guests.  In addition, we  explore opportunities that may arise to acquire or develop brands tailored to specific markets.



Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately   48% of total passenger ticket revenues in 2013 and 49% in 2012 and 2011.  International guests have grown from approximately 1.5 million in 2009 to approximately 2.3 million in 2013.



Cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity



We continue our commitment to identify and implement cost containment initiatives.  Our most recent initiatives relate to realizing economies of scale and improving service delivery to our travel partners and guests by restructuring and consolidating our global sales, marketing, general and administrative structure. We also continue our initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs.  These include the design of more fuel-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including propulsion and cooling systems incorporating energy efficiencies.



We are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics.  In addition, we continue to pursue our long-term objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade.  We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value.



Fleet revitalization, maintenance and expansion



We place a strong focus on product innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet.  Several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) for the Royal Caribbean International brand and enhanced design features found on our Solstice-class ships  for the Celebrity Cruises brand.



We are committed to building state-of-the-art ships and our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, currently have signed agreements for the construction of six new ships.  These consist of three Quantum-class ships









which are scheduled to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2014 and the second quarters of 2015 and 2016, one Oasis-class ship, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016, and two ships of a new generation for TUI Cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2014 and 2015.  These additions are expected to increase our passenger capacity by approximately 22,850 berths by December 31, 2016, or approximately 23.1%, as compared to our capacity as of December 31, 2013.  We continuously evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet.



Our revitalization and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate many of our latest signature innovations throughout the brand fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers.  Ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio.



Markets and itineraries



In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world.  The portability of our ships allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. We make deployment decisions with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio, with these decisions generally made 12 to 18 months in advance. Additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made in creating a flexible global sourcing model has made our brand relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries.



Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 490 destinations in 103 countries, spanning all seven continents.  We are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets.  New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the Asian, Australian, Caribbean, and Latin American markets.  Additionally, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in Australia and Latin America during that period.



In an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call.  Generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements.  Our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships.



Technological capabilities



The need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important.  Technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise.  Moreover, as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the increasing use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth.  As a result, we have launched several new  initiatives, which included among other improvements, revamped websites, new vacation packaging capabilities, support of mobile apps and increased bandwidth onboard our ships helping our guests remain well-connected while at sea.



To support our strategic focus on improving revenue yields, we began to implement new capabilities to improve our revenue management systems and decision support processes in advance of our WAVE season (traditionally the









first two months of the year where cruise lines experience disproportionately higher volume cruise sales).  As part of this effort, we have introduced new price optimization tools and pricing and promotion management capabilities in our reservations system.  We also provided our sales force with new tools to better support our travel agents.



Travel agency support and direct business



Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners.  To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace.  We provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners.  We also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools.



To support our direct sales initiatives, we have established a Consumer Outreach department which allows consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners, group vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers.  In addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, as well as encourage guests to book their next cruise vacations onboard our ships.



Guest Services



We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation.





Operations



Cruise Ships and Itineraries



As of December 31, 2013, our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, operate 41 ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 23 nights that call on approximately 490 destinations.











The following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in 2014 under these six cruise brands and their geographic areas of operation based on 2014 itineraries (subject to change).







ShipYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Quantum of the Seas20144,150Bahamas, Eastern/Southern Caribbean

Allure of the Seas20105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas20095,400Eastern/Western Caribbean, Europe

Independence of the Seas20083,600Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas20073,600Europe, Short Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas20063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas20042,100Southern Caribbean

Mariner of the Seas20033,100Asia

Serenade of the Seas20032,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Navigator of the Seas20023,250Western Caribbean

Brilliance of the Seas20022,100Europe, Western Caribbean, Canada

Adventure of the Seas20013,100Southern Caribbean, Europe

Radiance of the Seas20012,100Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Explorer of the Seas20003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Voyager of the Seas19993,250Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Vision of the Seas19982,000Western Caribbean, Short Caribbean, Southern Caribbean, Bermuda

Enchantment of the Seas19972,250Bahamas

Rhapsody of the Seas19972,000Australia/New Zealand, Alaska

Grandeur of the Seas19961,950Southern/Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Splendour of the Seas19961,800Europe, Brazil

Legend of the Seas19951,800Europe, Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Panama Canal

Majesty of the Seas19922,350Bahamas

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Reflection20123,000Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Silhouette20112,850Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse20102,850Europe, Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox20092,850Europe, Eastern/Western/Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice20082,850Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Celebrity Constellation20022,150Short Caribbean, Eastern Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Summit20012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Celebrity Infinity20012,150Europe, Panama Canal, S. America

Celebrity Millennium20002,150Alaska, Asia, Panama Canal

Celebrity Century19951,800Alaska, Hawaii, Panama Canal, Australia

Celebrity Xpedition(2)2004100Galapagos Islands









ShipYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of OperationAzamara Club CruisesAzamara Quest(3)2006700Europe, South/Central America, AsiaAzamara Journey(3)2004700Europe, Asia, South AmericaPullmantur(4)Monarch of the Seas19912,350Southern CaribbeanEmpress19901,600Europe, BrazilSovereign19882,300Europe, BrazilCDF Croisières de FranceHorizon(5)20101,350Europe, Southern CaribbeanZenith(6)19921,400Europe, BrazilTUI CruisesMein Schiff 320142,500Europe, Canary IslandsMein Schiff 2(7)20111,900Europe, Middle EastMein Schiff 1(8)20091,900Europe, Southern CaribbeanTotal105,700

_______________________________________________________________________________



(1)The year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the Company, which is the same as the year the ship was built, unless otherwise noted.

(2)Originally  built in 2001.

(3)Originally  built in 2000.

(4)Does not include Pullmantur’sOcean Dreamas it was delivered to an unrelated third party in April 2012 as part of a six-year bareboat charter agreement.  The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated third party for an additional four years.

(5)Originallybuilt in 1990.

(6)Zenithwas redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France in January 2014.

(7)Originallybuilt in 1997.

(8)Originallybuilt in 1996.



Our brands, including our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, have six ships on order.  Three ships on order are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH, two are being built in Finland by STX Finland and one will be built in France by STX France.  The expected dates that our ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows:











ShipExpected toEnter ServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International—Quantum-class:Quantum of the Seas4th Quarter 20144,150Anthem of the Seas2nd Quarter 20154,150Unnamed2nd Quarter 20164,150Oasis-class:Unnamed2nd Quarter 20165,400TUI Cruises—Mein Schiff 32nd Quarter 20142,500Mein Schiff 42nd Quarter 20152,500Total Berths22,850





Seasonality



Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises.  Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays.  In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in Australia and Latin America during that period.



Passengers and Capacity



Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (seeDescription of Certain Line ItemsandSelected Operational and Financial Metricsunder Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):



Year Ended December 31,20132012201120102009Passengers Carried4,884,7634,852,0794,850,0104,585,9203,970,278Passenger Cruise Days35,561,77235,197,78334,818,33532,251,21728,503,046Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)33,974,85233,705,58433,235,50830,911,07327,821,224Occupancy104.7%104.4%104.8%104.3%102.5%



Cruise Pricing



Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment.  Prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place.  Although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields.  In 2013, we launched new initiatives, which enable us to set pricing and leverage enhancements for the web and our reservation systems.  During 2014, we will continue to develop and implement revenue management tools that we believe will enable us to better understand and react to the current demand and pricing environment.  Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance.  Our air transportation program is available in major cities around the world and prices vary by gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost.









Passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 72% of total revenues in 2013 and approximately 73% of total revenues in 2012 and 2011.  While none of our brands are currently charging fuel supplements, we have introduced temporary fuel supplements from time to time.



Onboard Activities and Other Revenues



Our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship.  While many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, catalogue gifts for guests and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options.  Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises offer functionality on their respective internet sites for selecting shore excursions, specialty dining and amenities prior to embarkation.



In conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests.  During 2013, we expanded the markets in which we sell our cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection.  Onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately 28% of total revenues in 2013 and approximately 27% of total revenues in 2012 and 2011.



Segment Reporting



We operate five wholly-owned cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France.  In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the brand TUI Cruises.  We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry.  Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations).  Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components.  In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap.  As a result, our brands (including TUI Cruises) have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.

(

For financial information see Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.)



Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 64,000 employees, including 57,000 shipboard employees as well as 6,200 full-time and 700 part-time employees in our shoreside operations.  As of December 31, 2013, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Insurance



We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements, earnings and increased value, which are maintained in amounts related to the net book value of each ship.  The coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other international insurance markets.



We maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited or the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited.  Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject









to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.



We maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking, on each ship, through a Norwegian war risk insurance organization.  This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies.  We also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations.  Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.



Insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.



We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance.



All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.  In addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks.  Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature.  These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets.  We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable.  No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.



Recent European Union regulations (effective December 31, 2012) and the 2002 Protocol to the Athens Convention (effective April 2014 for countries that have ratified the Protocol) both provide for substantial increases to the level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators.  Compliance with these EU regulations has not had a material impact on operating costs and we do not expect that compliance with the 2002 Protocol, when it becomes effective, will have a material impact on our operating costs.



Trademarks



We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands.  The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean International” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its globe with an “A” logo, the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships.  We believe our trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.



Regulation



Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate.  In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador.  Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below.  Ships operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary and health conditions.  Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.



We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have









all licenses necessary to conduct our business.  Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally.  From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.



Safety and Security Regulations



Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety.  The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010.  Compliance with these modified standards did not have a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators.



All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.



Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports.  In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans.  The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.



The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime.  The cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires.  A few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been issued.  We expect the U.S. Coast Guard to issue these regulations in 2014.  While we cannot predict the full scope of such regulations, we believe we already meet or exceed the requirements of the act and do not expect any material costs due implementing these regulations.



Environmental Regulations



We are subject to various United States and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection.  Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways.  We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations.  From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs.  We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below.

Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (‘‘IMO’’) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the ‘‘MARPOL Regulations’’), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide. Permitted sulfur content was reduced from 4.5% to 3.5% on January 1, 2012. This reduction has not had a material effect on our fuel and operating costs.









The MARPOL Regulations also establish special Emission Control Areas (‘‘ECAs’’) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these areas.  As of February 2014, there are four established ECAs: the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, certain of the waters surrounding the North American coast, and the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Since July 1, 2010, ships operating in ECAs are required to operate on fuel with a sulfur content of 1.0%.  These ECA sulfur content reductions have not had a material impact on our results of operations.

Beginning January 1, 2015, ships operating in ECAs will be required to further reduce their fuel sulfur content to 0.1%.  We have been planning for this additional requirement for the last several years and continue to take steps to mitigate the potential impact on our fuel cost.  All of our ships on order, including those for TUI Cruises, will be built with advanced exhaust purification ("AEP") systems covering all engines.  As these new vessels are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility.

In addition, we have been actively developing and testing AEP systems on our existing fleet.  We have received exemptions for six of our ships which will apply while they are sailing in the North American and Caribbean ECAs.  These exemptions delay the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of AEP systems on these ships.  We believe that the learning from our existing endeavors, including our newbuild program, as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to execute an effective AEP system strategy for our fleet.

As a result of these and other mitigating actions, we believe the cost of complying with the 2015 ECA sulfur emission requirement will not be significant to our results of operations in 2015 and the years following.

By January 1, 2020, the MARPOL regulations will require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be further reduced to 0.5%.  If such a reduced limitation is implemented worldwide in 2020 and we have not been able to successfully mitigate the impact with evolving technical solutions, our fuel costs could increase significantly.

We have also taken a number of other steps to improve the overall fuel efficiency of our fleet and, accordingly, reduce our fuel costs.  We are targeting a 25% efficiency improvement for our ships on order.  In addition, we continue to work to improve the efficiency of our existing fleet, including improvements to the propulsion, machinery, HVAC systems and lighting.  The overall impact of these efforts has resulted in a 21% improvement in energy efficiency since 2005 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry.

In July 2011, new MARPOL Regulations introduced mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  These include the utilization of an energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new ships as well as the establishment of an energy efficient management plan for all ships.  The EEDI is a performance-based mechanism that requires a certain minimum energy efficiency in new ships.  These regulations apply to new vessels commissioned after January 1, 2013.  Compliance with these regulations has not had a material effect on our operating costs.  In June 2013, the European Commission proposed legislation which would require cruise ship operators using ports in the European Union to monitor and report on the vessels’ annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018.  We expect that compliance with this regulation, if adopted, will not materially impact our results of operations.



Labor Regulations



The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”) which became effective in August 2013.  The Convention reflects a broad range of standards and conditions governing all aspects of crew management for ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect relating to the health, safety, repatriation, entitlements and status of crewmembers and crew recruitment practices.  Each of our ships has received its certification of compliance with the requirements of the Convention. We have not incurred and do not expect to incur material costs related to implementation and ongoing compliance with the Convention.









Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations



We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. As a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for three of our ship-operating companies.  The required surety amount is currently $15.0 million per operator.  However, under amendments approved in February 2013, the required amount will increase to $22.0 million and $30.0 million per operator in 2014 and 2015, respectively.  Once fully phased-in in 2015, these surety requirements will be subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. We do not anticipate that compliance with the new rules will have a material effect on our costs.

We are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions.  In the United Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately £31.5 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in Norway, Finland and the Baltics.  These amounts ranged from NOK 28 million to NOK 67 million during 2013.

Certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons



In June 2013, the U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board proposed guidelines for the construction and alteration of passenger vessels to ensure that the vessels are readily accessible to and usable by passengers with disabilities. Once finalized, these guidelines will be used by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Department of Justice to implement mandatory and enforceable standards for passenger vessels covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act.  While we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs of our guests with disabilities, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses given the preliminary status of the proposed guidelines.

Taxation of the Company



The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes.  In addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure.

We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation.  During 2013, we also operated other businesses primarily consisting of the Pullmantur land-tour and air business.

United States Income Taxation



The following is a discussion of the application of the United States federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations.  All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code



We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United









States.  Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company, owned by us and Celebrity Cruises, Inc., is a ship-operating company classified as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes that may earn United States source income. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883.  Additionally, income earned through a partnership will qualify as income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships to the same extent as the income would so qualify if earned directly by the partners.  Thus, we believe that United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships earned by the United Kingdom tonnage tax company will qualify for exemption under Section 883 to the same extent as if it were earned directly by the owners of the United Kingdom tonnage tax company.

Regulations under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours.  Our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the United States will be subject to United States taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption Under Section 883



If we, the operator of our vessels, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships.

Because we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. conduct a trade or business in the United States, we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) from United States sources. In addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our United States trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our United States trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a “branch profits” tax at the rate of 30%.  We and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.









If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United States Taxation



We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. earn United States source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping.  The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented.

State Taxation



We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various United States state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes.  Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

Maltese and Spanish Income Tax



Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries, which include the owner-operator of CDF Croisières de France’s ship, qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta.  No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization.  Instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act.  A company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities.  Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal Maltese corporate income tax.

Pullmantur has sales and marketing functions, land-based tour operations and air business in Spain.  These activities are subject to Spanish taxation.  The tax from these operations is not considered significant to our operations.  As  a result of Pullmantur's increased focus in Latin America and need to have operating management closer to its largest and fastest growing market, Pullmantur has opened a regional head office in Panama. This office has been formed as a "Sedes de Empresas Multinacionales" (SEM) otherwise known in Panama as a Multinational Headquarters company.  The SEM regime provides tax advantages for Panamanian entities that only carry out transactions with other entities belonging to their same international group.  This new company is expected to be exempt from Panamanian taxation.

United Kingdom Income Tax



We operate thirteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”).

Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels.  Normal United Kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement.









Failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities.  Our United Kingdom income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Tax



Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company charters certain ships to Brazilian companies for operations in Brazil from November to May.  Some of these charters are with unrelated third parties and others are with a Brazilian affiliate.  The Brazilian affiliate’s earnings are subject to Brazilian taxation which is not considered significant.  The charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur are exempt from Brazilian income tax under current Brazilian domestic law.

Other Taxation



We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify for exemption or tonnage tax regimes.  The tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented.  Our U.K. tonnage tax companies are exempt from some taxation in certain jurisdictions where those companies have business operations under relevant United Kingdom tax treaties.  CDF Croisières de France’s operations within France are minimal and therefore, its French income taxes are minimal.

Website Access to Reports



We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com.  The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.

Executive Officers of the Company

As ofFebruary 20, 2014, our executive officers are:

NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain66Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein54President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalMichael W. Bayley55President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesLawrence Pimentel62President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesBrian J. Rice(1)55Vice ChairmanHarri U. Kulovaara61Executive Vice President, MaritimeLisa Lutoff-Perlo56Executive Vice President, Operations, Royal Caribbean InternationalJason T. Liberty38Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerBradley H. Stein58Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance OfficerHenry L. Pujol46Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

(1)Mr. Rice is retiring in early 2014.











Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988.  Mr. Fain has been involved in the shipping industry for over 35 years.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing.  Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry Association of America) in 2001.

Michael W. Bayley has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since August 2012.  Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over 30 years, having started as a Purser onboard one of the Company’s ships.  He has served in a number of roles including, most recently, as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012 until August 2012.  Other positions Mr. Bayley has held include Executive Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012; Senior Vice President, International from December 2007 to May 2010; Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International; and Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009.  From 2001 until January 2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and Mediterranean.  From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Cunard Line.

Brian J. Rice has served as Vice Chairman since September 2012.  In this capacity, Mr. Rice oversees Royal Caribbean’s finance, supply chain, strategy and information technology functions.  Mr. Rice previously served as our Chief Financial Officer from November 2006 through May 2013, when these responsibilities were transitioned in preparation for Mr. Rice’s retirement in early 2014. Mr. Rice has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1989 in a variety of positions including Executive Vice President, Revenue Performance.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board.  Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance.  Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Lisa Lutoff-Perlo has served as Executive Vice President, Operations for Royal Caribbean International since September 2012.  Ms. Lutoff-Perlo has been employed with the Company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both Celebrity Cruises and Royal Caribbean International.  She started at Royal Caribbean International as District Sales Manager for New England and more recently, from August 2008 to August 2012, she was responsible for Celebrity Cruises’ entire hotel operation. In her role as Executive Vice President of Operations, Ms. Lutoff-Perlo is responsible for all of Royal Caribbean International's hotel, marine and port operations.

Jason T. Liberty has been employed by the Company since 2005 and has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2013.  Mr. Liberty previously served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Finance from September 2012 through May 2013, overseeing the Company’s Corporate and Strategic Planning, Treasury, Investor Relations and Deployment functions.  Prior to this, Mr. Liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as Vice President of Corporate and Revenue Planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as Vice President of Corporate and Strategic Planning.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Liberty was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.









Bradley H. Stein has served as General Counsel of the Company since 2006.  He has also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company since February 2009 and February 2011, respectively. Mr. Stein has been with Royal Caribbean since 1992.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Stein worked in private practice in New York and Miami.

Henry L. Pujol has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since May 2013.  Mr. Pujol originally joined Royal Caribbean in 2004 as Assistant Controller and was promoted to Corporate Controller in May 2007.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Pujol was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.















