Item 1. Business

General

Royal Caribbean International was founded in 1968. The current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on
July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.

We are the world’s second
largest cruise company operating 40 ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate of approximately 92,300 berths as of December 31, 2010. Our brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Club Cruises
along with our Pullmantur brand, which has been custom tailored to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America and our CDF Croisières de France brand which provides us with a custom tailored product targeted at the French
market. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture which operates the brand TUI Cruises, specifically tailored for the German market.

Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately 420 destinations on all seven continents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a
network of international representatives around the world which focus on our international guest sourcing.

We compete
principally on the basis of innovation and quality of ships, quality of service, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and
revitalization of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests and expand into growing international markets and provides us with the flexibility to
deploy our ships among our brand portfolio.

We believe cruising continues to be a widely accepted vacation alternative due to
its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shore-side activities. In addition, we believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic. Further, we believe our
global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing shareholder value.

Our Brands

Royal
Caribbean International

We currently operate 22 ships with approximately 62,000 berths under our Royal Caribbean
International brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean,
Europe, Hawaii, the Middle East, the Panama Canal, South America and New Zealand.

Royal Caribbean International is positioned
at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or shorter and feature a casual ambiance. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand
also enables it to attract consumers from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. This allows Royal Caribbean International
to achieve among the broadest market coverage of any of the major cruise brands in the vacation industry.







Royal Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing
consumers by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. Popular product innovations include surf simulators, an interactive water park
called the H2O Zone™, “Royal Promenades” (boulevards with shopping, dining and entertainment venues), ice skating rinks, bungee jumping trampolines and rock climbing walls.

Most recently, in October 2009 and October 2010, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the sister ships,Oasis of the SeasandAllure of the Seas, respectively, which are the largest and most innovative cruise ships in the industry. In addition, during 2010, Royal Caribbean International introduced DreamWorks Animations®themed activities onboard certain ships and the first Starbucks®Coffee at sea onboardAllure of the Seas.

Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of shore excursions at each port of call. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International’s product offerings represent
excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children. Because of the brand’s extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to
the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.

Celebrity Cruises

We currently operate 10 ships with approximately 20,500 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range
from two to 17 nights. Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry.

Celebrity
Cruises’ reputation as an upscale cruise vacation brand appeals to experienced cruisers, resulting in a strong base of loyal repeat guests. The brand also appeals to experienced vacationers who have not yet cruised who seek the high quality,
service-focused experience the brand offers. Celebrity Cruises offers a global cruise experience by providing a variety of cruise lengths and itineraries to premium destinations throughout the world, including Alaska, Australia, Bermuda, the
Caribbean, Europe, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America. Celebrity Cruises is also the only major cruise line to operate a ship in the Galapagos Islands,Celebrity Xpedition.Celebrity Xpeditionhas 96 berths and provides
this unique experience on seven day cruises with pre-cruise tours in Ecuador.

Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to deliver
an intimate experience onboard upscale ships that offer luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine dining, personalized service, extensive spa facilities, and unique onboard attractions. In addition, during 2010, Celebrity Cruises
introduced the new Celebrity iLounge and became an Authorized Apple Reseller of computers and other media devices onboard certain Celebrity Cruises ships.

Celebrity Cruises’ fleet, dining, service, and spa have been consistently recognized with numerous awards from consumer cruise travel polls, travel agents and travel industry publications.

Azamara Club Cruises

We currently operate two ships with a total of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from four to 17 nights. Azamara Club Cruises is
designed to serve the up-market segment of the North American, U.K., German and Australian markets, which segment is generally characterized as incorporating elements of the premium and luxury segments.

Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destinations, featuring unique itineraries with more overnight and longer
stays, as well as specialty tours allowing guests to truly experience the destination. Azamara Club Cruises’ focus is to attract experienced travelers who enjoy cruising and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of
service. Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Western & Northern Europe, the Mediterranean, South America, the Panama Canal and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean, with more overnight and late-night stays in every region.







Azamara Club Cruises offers a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities,
including gaming facilities, fine dining, spa and wellness, butler service for suites, as well as interactive entertainment venues. Starting in April 2010, Azamara Club Cruises also includes as part of the base price, certain onboard services,
amenities and activities which are not normally included in the base price of other cruise lines. Some of these onboard services, amenities and activities consist of wine with lunch and dinner, bottled water, soda, premium coffees and teas,
gratuities for housekeeping and dining/bar staff, self-service laundry and shuttle buses for certain ports.

Pullmantur

We currently operate five ships with approximately 7,650 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering seven-night cruise itineraries.
Pullmantur serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish cruise market and continues to expand into the Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets. Pullmantur has land-based tour operations and owns a 49% interest in an air business that operates
four Boeing 747 aircrafts in support of its cruise and tour operations.

Pullmantur’s strategy is to attract cruise
guests by providing a variety of cruising options and land-based travel packages. Pullmantur offers a range of cruise itineraries to the Baltic, Brazil, the Caribbean, the Mediterranean, Mexico and Portugal. Pullmantur offers a wide array of onboard
activities and services to guests, including exercise facilities, swimming pools, beauty salons, gaming facilities, shopping, dining, certain complimentary beverages, and entertainment venues. Pullmantur’s tour operations sell land-based travel
packages to Spanish guests including hotels and flights primarily to Caribbean resorts, and land-based tour packages to Europe aimed at Latin American guests.

CDF Croisières de France

We currently operate one ship,Bleu de
France, with approximately 750 berths under our CDF Croisières de France brand, offering four to ten night cruise itineraries. CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by
providing us with a brand custom-tailored for French cruise guests. In November 2010,Bleu de Francewas sold to an unrelated party. As part of the sale agreement, we charteredBleu de Francefrom the buyer for a period of one year
from the sale date in order to fulfill existing guest commitments. At the end of the charter period, Pullmantur will redeployHorizonto CDF Croisières de France and prior to its redeployment the ship will undergo renovations to
incorporate signature brand elements.

CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean. CDF
Croisières de France offers a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including entertainment venues, exercise and spa facilities, fine dining, and gaming facilities.

TUI Cruises

In 2008, we formed a joint venture with TUI AG, a European
tourism and shipping company which owns 51% of TUI Travel. The joint venture operates TUI Cruises, designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a custom-tailored product for German guests. All
onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. TUI Cruises operates one ship,Mein Schiff, with a total of approximately 1,850 berths. As previously announced, we
will be sellingCelebrity Mercuryto TUI Cruises to serve as its second ship. The sale is expected to close at the end of February 2011 and the ship will enter service with TUI Cruises in the second quarter of 2011, under the nameMein
Schiff 2, following an extensive refurbishment.

Industry

Cruising is considered a well established vacation sector in the North American market, a growing sector in the European market and a developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets.
Industry data indicates that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this could present an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.







We estimate that the global cruise industry carried 18.7 million cruise passengers in
2010 compared to 17.3 million cruise passengers carried in 2009. We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately 400,000 berths on approximately 281 ships by the end of 2010. There are approximately 20 ships with an
estimated 53,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2011 and 2014. The majority of cruise passengers in the cruise vacation industry have historically been sourced from North America, and to a lesser
extent, Europe.

North America

Although the North American cruise market has historically experienced significant growth, the compound annual growth rate in cruise passengers for this market was approximately 0.9% from 2006 to 2010.
This more limited growth is attributable in large part to the recent international expansion within the cruise industry. We estimate that North America was served by 136 ships with approximately 190,000 berths at the beginning of 2006 and by 151
ships with approximately 241,000 berths by the end of 2010. There are approximately 13 ships with an estimated 36,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the North American cruise market between 2011 and 2014.

Europe

In Europe,
cruising represents a much smaller sector of the vacation industry; however, it has experienced a compound annual growth rate in cruise passengers of approximately 12.4% from 2006 to 2010 and we believe this market has significant continued growth
potential. We estimate that Europe was served by 100 ships with approximately 94,000 berths at the beginning of 2006 and by 114 ships with approximately 144,000 berths by the end of 2010. There are approximately seven ships with an estimated 16,000
berths that are expected to be placed in service in the European cruise market between 2011 and 2014.

The following table
details the growth in the global, North American and European cruise markets in terms of cruise passengers and estimated weighted-average berths over the past five years:



YearGlobal CruisePassengers(1)Weighted-AverageSupply
ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)NorthAmericanCruisePassengers(2)Weighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketed inNorthAmerica(1)EuropeanCruisePassengers(3)Weighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketed inEurope(1)200615,309,000304,00010,078,000201,0003,460,00097,000200716,586,000327,00010,247,000212,0004,080,000105,000200817,184,000347,00010,093,000219,0004,500,000120,000200917,340,000363,00010,198,000222,0005,000,000131,000201018,740,000388,00010,450,000232,0005,448,000142,000



1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise passengers, and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally, in North America and Europe are based on a
combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider and Cruise Line International Association. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis
utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

2)Source: Cruise Line International Association based on cruise passengers carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2006 through 2009. Year 2010 amounts
represent our estimates (see number 1 above).

3)Source: European Cruise Council for years 2006 through 2009. Year 2010 amounts represent our estimates (see number 1 above).

We compete with a number of cruise lines; however, our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among
others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. Cruise lines compete with
other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time. Demand for such activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market
are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.







Operating Strategies

Our principal operating strategies are to:



•enhance our revenues, manage the efficiency of our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing
our return on invested capital and shareholder value,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands throughout the world,



•expand our fleet with the new state-of-the-art cruise ships recently delivered and on order, while transferring key innovations to our existing fleet,



•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those new markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to
optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,



•continue to expand and diversify our passenger mix,



•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•further improve our technological capabilities, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our direct consumer outreach programs.

Enhance our revenues, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity

We are focused on maximizing revenues, improving yields and strengthening our balance sheet while strategically managing the efficiency of
our operating expenditures. We maximize revenues and yields through various programs prior to, during and after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices and occupancy. We are continually committed to improving our cost efficiencies
and have implemented various cost-containment initiatives. In addition, to ensure adequate cash and liquidity, during the economic downturn, we discontinued our quarterly dividend commencing in the fourth quarter of 2008 and have tactically managed
our capital expenditures. We believe these strategies will enhance our ability of achieving our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and shareholder value.

Brand Awareness and Market Penetration

We continue to increase the
recognition and market penetration of our brands among consumers throughout the world. Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises are established global brands in the contemporary and premium segments of the vacation industry. Azamara Club
Cruises is designed to serve the up-market cruise segment. Pullmantur is a widely recognized brand in the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American contemporary cruise markets. CDF Croisières de France is targeted to serve the contemporary
segment of the French cruise market.

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our Royal Caribbean International
brand through communication strategies designed to emphasize its high quality and excellent-value cruise vacations. Royal Caribbean International’s communication strategies, which include social media and networking channels, its websitewww.royalcaribbean.comand traditional media channels, target adults and families who are vacation enthusiasts interested in exploring new destinations and seeking new experiences. These strategies are also designed to attract first-time
cruisers to the cruise vacation industry and to the Royal Caribbean International brand as well as past guests. In order to attract the experienced cruiser who is seeking new experiences as well as first-time cruisers, Royal Caribbean International
provides multiple choices to guests through a wide array of itineraries, accommodations, dining options,







onboard activities and shore excursions. The hallmarks of the brand include friendly and engaging service, state-of-the-art ships, family programs, entertainment, health and fitness and
energizing onboard and shoreside activities designed for guests of all ages.

We increase brand awareness and market
penetration of our Celebrity Cruises brand through consumer and trade strategies designed to broaden the recognition of its high quality cruise vacations and drive loyalty and brand preference. We do so by emphasizing the four core pillars of the
brand: well-appointed ships, personalized service, fine dining and engaging onboard activities. Celebrity Cruises’ communications target experienced cruisers as well as affluent vacationers who may have not yet cruised who seek upscale
experiences and appreciate a high staff-to-guest ratio, luxurious accommodations, fine dining and spa services. Celebrity Cruises retains repeat guests with exclusive benefits for its Captain’s Club members. Celebrity Cruises engages with past
and potential guests through its websitewww.celebritycruises.com, and communicates with consumers through social media channels, as well as through a variety of traditional media channels.

We increase awareness and market penetration for Azamara Club Cruises with several marketing campaigns and through other channels.
Azamara Club Cruises’ marketing mix includes extensive online marketing, print advertising in key travel magazines, trade advertising, as well as extensive collaboration with up-market travel agents in such areas as training and road shows.
Azamara Club Cruises has developed relationships with key boutique agencies and luxury consortiums and works in collaboration with international offices and international representatives. The brand has also developed a microsite featuring a blog
with the goal of establishing a solid and ongoing social media platform to further increase awareness, as well as providing internet activities to support the travel trade and customers.

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our Pullmantur brand primarily through advertising campaigns targeted to Spanish
and Portuguese-speaking guests in Spain, Portugal and Latin America. All customer-facing crewmembers speak Spanish and on certain itineraries Portuguese, and onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the
preferences of these target markets.

We continue to increase the awareness and market penetration of our CDF
Croisières de France brand through trade education, public relations and direct communications, designed to target the contemporary segment of the French cruise market. CDF Croisières de France’s communications emphasizes that its
cruise product is tailored specifically to French-speaking guests. All customer-facing crewmembers speak French, and the onboard activities and menu offerings are designed to suit their target guests’ preferences.

In addition, we also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies who generate the majority of our bookings.
We are committed to further developing and strengthening this very important distribution channel by facilitating their focus on the unique qualities of each of our brands.

Fleet Development, Maintenance and Innovation

We currently have signed
agreements with a shipyard providing for the construction of two new state-of-the-art Solstice-class cruise ships scheduled to enter service in the third quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2012. These additions are expected to result in an
increase in our passenger capacity by approximately 5,850 berths by December 31, 2012, or approximately 6.3% as compared to our capacity as of December 31, 2010. We continuously evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing
ships or sell ships in our current fleet.

The acquisition of our remaining Solstice-class ships along with our maintenance
programs and revitalizations on our existing fleet allows us to incorporate our latest signature innovations, continue to attract new and repeat guests and expand into growing international markets and provides us with the flexibility to deploy our
ships among our brand portfolio. Our Solstice and Oasis-class ships incorporate new innovations and allow us to capture cost savings through their scale and fuel efficiencies. The design of these ships allows for a greater percentage of staterooms
with verandas and outside staterooms which provide for premium pricing.







In support of our maintenance programs, we own a 40% interest in a ship repair and
maintenance facility, Grand Bahamas Shipyard Ltd., which is the largest cruise ship dry-dock repair facility in the world and is located in Freeport, Grand Bahamas. We utilize this facility, among other ship repair facilities, for our regularly
scheduled drydocks and certain emergency repairs as may be required. In addition, the facility serves unaffiliated cruise, cargo ships, oil and gas tankers, and offshore units.

In addition to our fleet development and maintenance, we place a strong focus on product innovation which we seek to achieve by
introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our existing fleet in a cost effective manner. In order to offer guests a wider range of activities and amenities and to ensure consistency across our fleets, we have
revitalized some of our older ships to update and refresh their interiors and to incorporate signature brand elements. Renovations have included the addition of new balconies, dining and entertainment options, as well as refurbishments to staterooms
and public areas.

Royal Caribbean International. Founded in 1968, Royal Caribbean International was the first cruise
line to design ships for warm water year round cruises. Since then Royal Caribbean International has launched several classes of ships, each building upon the innovation of the previous class. Several of these innovations and recreational activities
such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues), ice and in-line skating rinks, rock climbing walls, miniature golf, full court basketball, enhanced staterooms and expanded dining venues have
become signature elements of the brand.

In 2006, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the
3,600-berthFreedom of the Seas, the first of three Freedom-class ships. The Freedom-class ships have some of the largest staterooms and balconies in the industry, flat screen televisions, cell phone services and other amenities. The launch
of the Freedom-class ships also introduced several new experiences to cruising, including a surf simulator and an interactive water park called the H2O ZoneTM. Royal Caribbean International took delivery of a second Freedom-class ship,Liberty of the Seas,in April 2007
and the third Freedom-class ship,Independence of the Seas, in April 2008.

Building upon the innovations of the
Freedom-class ships, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the first Oasis-class ship,Oasis of the Seasin October 2009 and the second Oasis-class ship,Allure of the Seas, in October 2010. This new class of ships has
approximately 5,400 berths. Each ship spans 16 decks and features 2,700 staterooms. These ships also allow for a greater percentage of staterooms with verandas and outside staterooms which provide for premium pricing. The Oasis-class ships have
introduced several new experiences to cruising including the neighborhood concept. The neighborhood concept consists of seven distinct themed areas which include Central Park, featuring a park open to the sky, and Boardwalk, an outdoor
family-friendly area featuring a handcrafted carousel and an amphitheater at sea known as AquaTheater. Additional features include an elevating bar, a zip line, a sloped-beach entry pool and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining
options. The Oasis-class ships also offer new categories in onboard accommodations including bi-level, two bedroom/two bathroom suites and balcony staterooms facing some of the distinct neighborhoods.

In 2011, Royal Caribbean International will introduce some of the most popular features of the Oasis-class ships on certain Freedom-class
and Radiance-class ships, including the addition of new specialty restaurants, a new lounge for Crown & Anchor Society loyalty program members, interactive flat-panel televisions in all staterooms and wireless internet throughout the ship.
Additionally, there will be new balcony staterooms added, select stateroom enhancements and upgrades to public areas, including a refreshed casual dining area.

Celebrity Cruises.Celebrity Cruises was founded in 1990 and has introduced several classes of ships, each building on the brand’s primary strengths. The progression and innovation of these
ships have elevated Celebrity Cruises’ position in the premium segment of the marketplace. Some of the brand’s signature elements include the innovative design of the ships, contemporary gourmet dining, spacious staterooms and suites with
verandas, spa facilities, piano, champagne and martini bars and lounges. In addition, during 2010 Celebrity Cruises introduced the new Celebrity iLounge and became an Authorized Apple Reseller of computers and other media devices onboard certain
Celebrity Cruises ships. The brand continuously improves its existing fleet to keep them current with the newest innovations. Most recently,Celebrity Constellationunderwent a renovation of its onboard amenities and public areas. Several
attributes of the new Solstice-class were added during this renovation. Between 2011 and 2012, other Celebrity Cruises ships will undergo similar renovations.







Celebrity
Reflection

Celebrity Solstice

Celebrity Equinox

Celebrity Eclipse

Celebrity Silhouette

Celebrity Reflection

Celebrity Reflection

Azamara Club Cruises.In May 2007,Blue Dreamwas redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises, and is sailing under
the nameAzamara Journey. In September 2007,Blue Moonwas also redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises and is sailing under the nameAzamara Quest. Before redeployment to the Azamara Club Cruises brand, each ship
underwent renovations including the upgrade of guest suites and staterooms, and the addition of two new specialty restaurants.

Pullmantur.Pullmantur was founded in 1971. We acquired Pullmantur in November 2006 and it currently operates five ships which
range in size from approximately 1,000 to 2,300 berths for a total of 7,650 berths.

In May 2007,Zenithwas redeployed
from Celebrity Cruises to Pullmantur.Empress of the SeasandSovereign of the Seaswere redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in March 2008 and November 2008, respectively. Upon the return ofIsland Starin April 2009 from Island Cruises, the ship was redeployed to Pullmantur and sailed under the namePacific Dreamfrom May 2009 to October 2010. Since then, the ship has been sailing under the nameHorizon. Before redeployment to
Pullmantur, each ship underwent renovations to incorporate Pullmantur’s signature elements which include Spanish signage, logos and expanded disco areas.

CDF Croisières de France. In November 2010,Bleu de Francewas sold to an unrelated party. As part of the sale agreement, we charteredBleu de Francefrom the buyer for a
period of one year from the sale date in order to fulfill existing guest commitments. At the end of the charter period, Pullmantur will redeployHorizonto CDF Croisières de France.Horizonwill undergo renovations, including
the replacement of carpets, fabrics and furniture.

Markets and Itineraries

In an effort to penetrate untapped markets and diversify our customer base, we continue to seek opportunities to redeploy ships in our
Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises brands to new markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships and our investment in infrastructure allows us to expand into new markets and helps us
reduce our dependency on any one market by allowing us to create “home ports” around the world. In addition, it allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets.

Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 420 ports. We are focused on optimizing returns by operating
in established markets while growing our presence internationally. New ships allow us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries, while strengthening our ability to penetrate the Asian, Caribbean,
European, and Latin American markets further. As we enter into new markets, we continuously evaluate their current and expected performance in order to enhance our revenues. In addition, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern
Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have increased deployment to South America and Australia.







We continue to focus on the acceleration of Royal Caribbean International’s, Celebrity
Cruises’ and Azamara Club Cruises’ strategic positioning as global cruise brands. Royal Caribbean International has increased its year-round deployment offerings for 2011, including more drive-to and locally sourced products for North
American and international markets. In December 2010,Allure of the Seasdebuted from Fort Lauderdale joiningOasis of the Seaswith both ships offering alternating Eastern and Western Caribbean voyages allowing guests to enjoy the
opportunity to book back-to-back cruises.

In the summer of 2011, eleven of Royal Caribbean International’s ships will
sail in Europe, making the brand an industry leader in European capacity during the summer season. Approximately 70% of the eleven ships will be dedicated to the European market for guest sourcing. During the Northern Hemisphere’s winter, Royal
Caribbean International will increase its capacity in Australia by redeploying a second ship.

Celebrity Cruises had a large
portion of its fleet in Europe in 2010.Celebrity Eclipse, the third vessel of the Solstice- class, debuted in the second quarter of 2010 in Southampton for the summer season. This was the first time in the brand’s history that it had a
dedicated product in the U.K. market. The year 2010 also marked the return of Celebrity Cruises to Bermuda and the Northeast during the summer with seven night cruises onCelebrity Summitand the offering of year-round Caribbean cruising onCelebrity Solstice.

The Solstice-class expansion has allowed the brand to broaden its mix of itineraries in 2011. This
year will mark the debut ofCelebrity Silhouette, the fourth Solstice-class ship, which will debut in Europe and will provide sailings in the Northeast Caribbean in the winter. During the 2011 summer season, all four Solstice-class ships will
be in Europe. During the winter, Celebrity Cruises will also return to Australia and will add incremental sailings to Hawaii.

In 2011, Azamara Club Cruises will continue to offer more calls to “boutique” ports of call, including Rouen, France, Paros,
Greece and many other boutique ports only accessible by smaller ships. The brand also continues to focus on more overnight calls and longer stays in port. In 2011, Azamara Club Cruises’ deployment feature sailings in Western and Northern
Europe, Asia, the Mediterranean, the Panama Canal and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean. In the winter, Azamara will return to South America, adding new cruises to the Amazon. Also, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France will
continue to offer European itineraries on all ships.

Expansion and Diversification of our Passenger Mix

Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately 45%, 46%, and 40% of total passenger ticket revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. International passengers have grown from approximately 586,000 in 2006 to approximately 1.8 million in 2010.

We sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to passengers outside of
North America through our offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react faster to local
market conditions as well as better understand our customer base in each respective market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of 41 independent international representatives located







throughout the world covering 60 countries. Historically, our focus has been to primarily source passengers for our global brands from North America. Over the last several years, we have and
continue to expand our focus to sell and market our cruise brands to countries outside of North America through fleet innovation and by responding to the cultural characteristics of our global passengers.

We continue to look for opportunities to acquire or develop brands custom-tailored to specific markets. TUI Cruises, our joint venture
with TUI AG, is a cruise brand targeted at the cruise market in Germany. TUI Cruises complements Pullmantur, which is targeted at passengers primarily in Spain, Portugal and Latin America and CDF Croisières de France, which is targeted at
passengers primarily in France.

Health, Safety, Security and Environmental Policies

We are committed to protecting the health, safety and security of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. We are also
committed to protecting the marine environment in which our vessels sail and the communities in which we operate by minimizing adverse environmental consequences and using resources efficiently. As part of this commitment, we established a unified
internal department to oversee global security, maritime safety, medical and public health areas, and environmental stewardship. This organization is comprised of technical experts in each area focused on improving our prevention and response
procedures. Our rapid and corporate wide approach to contagious disease challenges allows us to minimize the impact of any outbreaks on our ships and effectively use our medical and public health expertise to meet the health care needs of our guests
and crew.

Technological Capabilities

Innovation in information technology and revenue management continues to be an integral part of our business strategy. We continue our strategy of adapting to our ever changing guest mix by developing new
technological advancements in an effort to maximize onboard revenue from our existing customers. A key focus in 2010 was to use technology to make both the pre-cruise and onboard experience easier for guests. For example, we launched interactive,
fully electronic guest documents and overhauled the Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises websites to include a simpler and more user friendly online booking process. We also introduced the new Celebrity iLounge, which features MacBook
Pros®, iPods®, essential accessories and classes designed around iLife®applications and became an Authorized Apple Reseller of computers and other media devices onboard certain Celebrity Cruisesships.

We believe we have some of the most advanced revenue management capabilities in the industry, which enables us to make more advantageous
decisions about pricing, inventory management and marketing actions even during periods of volatility and contracted booking windows. We are continuously working to improve our systems and tools through increased forecasting capabilities, ongoing
improvements to our understanding of price/demand relationships, and greater automation of the decision processes. We believe these revenue management capabilities allow us to make more advantageous decisions to enhance revenue.

We also continue to support our international growth strategy with customized websites for international markets and localized support
for our cruise programs in those markets. These international websites include online check-in in local languages as well as special offers and promotions.

Travel Agency Support and Direct Business

Travel agencies generate the
majority of bookings for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel agents. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and
incentive structures remain competitive with our competitors. In addition, our sales teams focus on the unique qualities of each brand and provide support to the travel agency community. Our websiteCruisingpower.comcontinues to be an
industry-leading website exclusive to the travel agency community. Royal Caribbean International continues to enhance its online training certification program, “University of Wow,” and Celebrity Cruises continues to promote “Five
Star Academy,” its online travel agent partner learning suite. In addition, over the past several years, we have completed several key enhancements to simplify the online booking process via our CruiseMatch trade booking tool based on feedback
from our travel agent partners.







In 2010, we introduced a new virtual tradeshow platform, providing travel agents the
opportunity to attend a Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises or Azamara Club Cruises tradeshow event by logging in from their own computer. These events consist of online training sessions, online general sessions with key note speakers
and online tradeshow booths all designed to educate, motivate and inform travel agents about our brands.

We have customer
service representatives that are trained to assist travel agents in providing a higher level of service, andInsight, the first service tool of its kind in the industry, assists agencies with productivity and enhances customer service. We
currently operate reservation call centers to support our travel agent community in the United States, Canada, France, Spain and the United Kingdom which allow us to provide flexible and extended hours of operations.

We also have certified vacation planners in our call centers located throughout the world offering cruise planning expertise and personal
attention to our guests. We maintain websites that allow guests to plan and book a cruise and customize their reservations for Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises.During 2010, we have placed a
significant focus on building strong relationships with our guests before, during and after their cruise vacation with the objective of establishing customer engagement and continued loyalty. As part of this focus, we have established ongoing social
media platforms to increase awareness for both repeat and new guests and we have emphasized marketing through our loyalty programs. As a result, we continue to experience an increase in the use of our internet sites and consumer outreach centers as
a source of our overall bookings. Guests can also book their cruise vacations onboard our ships.

Guest Services

We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and
post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. We offer our guests the ability to check-in online in order to alleviate boarding time during embarkation. In 2010, our air/sea program introduced our new Choice Air web based tool which offers
guests their choice of flights and the ability to customize flight arrangements by selecting a specific airline, flight and class of service. Choice Air can be accessed and utilized by both travel agents and guests.

The Royal Caribbean International guest loyalty program, Crown & Anchor Society, has over five million members worldwide and
includes benefits such as a secured dedicated section in thewww.royalcaribbean.cominternet site with special cruise offers and onboard amenities. In early 2011, Royal Caribbean International launched an enhanced Crown & Anchor
Society loyalty member section on its website which included redesigned pages, images and content links outlining new loyalty program details, promotional offer presentations and video streaming. In addition, the website will enable guests to select
stateroom upgrades, onboard benefit preferences and manage their membership status and information. The Celebrity Cruises’ guest loyalty program, Captain’s Club has over one million members. Captain’s Club members enjoy exclusive
members-only onboard programs and amenities, and are provided with a secured area on the Celebrity Cruises website, which communicates select products. The website was upgraded in 2010 to offer more interactive features and ways for Captain’s
Club members to view and manage their membership information, including details about their sailing history and upcoming reservations.







Operations

Cruise Ships and Itineraries

As of December 31, 2010, we operate 40
ships under five cruise brands, with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 18 nights that call on approximately 420 destinations.Celebrity Silhouetteis expected to enter revenue service in the third quarter of 2011.
Through our joint venture with TUI AG, TUI Cruises operatesMein Schiffwhich will offer sailings in Europe during 2011. As previously announced, we will be sellingCelebrity Mercuryto TUI Cruises to serve as its second ship. The sale
is expected to close at the end of February 2011 and the ship will enter service with TUI Cruises in the second quarter of 2011, under the nameMein Schiff 2,following an extensive refurbishment.

The following table represents summary information concerning the ships we operate under our five cruise brands and their areas of
operation based on 2011 itineraries (subject to change). It does not include Pullmantur’sAtlantic Starwhich is currently not in operation and which we plan to sell.





ShipYear ShipEntered or 
WillEnter Service1ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Allure of the Seas20105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas20095,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas20083,600Europe

Liberty of the Seas20073,600Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas20063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas20042,100Caribbean, Canada/New England, Europe

Mariner of the Seas20033,100Western Caribbean, Europe, Brazil

Serenade of the Seas20032,100Southern Caribbean

Navigator of the Seas20023,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Brilliance of the Seas20022,100Europe, Middle East

Adventure of the Seas20013,100Southern Caribbean, Europe

Radiance of the Seas20012,100Alaska, Australia, Caribbean

Explorer of the Seas20003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Voyager of the Seas19993,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Vision of the Seas19982,000Europe, Brazil

Enchantment of the Seas19972,250Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Rhapsody of the Seas19972,000Australia/New Zealand, Alaska, Hawaii

Grandeur of the Seas19961,950Europe, Southern Caribbean

Splendour of the Seas19961,800Europe, Brazil

Legend of the Seas19951,800Asia

Majesty of the Seas19922,350Bahamas

Monarch of the Seas19912,350Bahamas



Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Silhouette20112,850Europe, Eastern / Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse20102,850Europe, Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox20092,850Europe, Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice20082,850Europe, Caribbean

Celebrity Constellation20022,050Caribbean, Europe, Panama Canal

Celebrity Summit20012,050Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Celebrity Infinity20012,050Alaska, Panama Canal, South America

Celebrity Millennium20002,050Caribbean, Panama Canal, Alaska

Celebrity Mercury19971,850Eastern Caribbean

Celebrity Century19951,800Western Caribbean, Europe, Alaska, Hawaii, Australia/New Zealand







Celebrity Xpedition2200496Galapagos IslandsAzamara Club CruisesAzamara Journey32004700Europe, Caribbean, Panama Canal, South AmericaAzamara Quest42006700Europe, AsiaPullmanturOcean Dream520081,000Southern Caribbean, MexicoZenith19921,400Mediterranean, BrazilEmpress19901,600Europe, BrazilSovereign19882,300Western Mediterranean, BrazilHorizon619901,350Mexico, EuropeCDF Croisières de FranceBleu de France72005750EuropeTotal95,146



1The year a ship entered or will enter service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the Company, which is the
same as the year the ship was built, unless otherwise noted.

2Celebrity Xpeditionwas built in 2001.

3Azamara Journey(formerlyBlue Dream) was built in 2000.

4Azamara Quest(formerlyBlue Moon) was built in 2000.

5Ocean Dreamwas built in 1981.

6Horizonwas built in 1990. The ship was sailing under the namePacific Dreamthrough October 2010. Since then, the ship has been sailing
under the nameHorizon.

7Bleu de France(formerlyHoliday Dream)was built in 1981. In November 2010,Bleu de Francewas sold to an unrelated party. As
part of the sale agreement, we chartered theBleu de Francefrom the buyer for a period of one year from the sale date in order to fulfill existing passenger commitments.

We have two Solstice-class ships on order for Celebrity Cruises. These ships are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH. The expected
dates these ships will enter service and their planned number of berths are as follows:



ShipExpected to EnterServiceApproximateBerthsCelebrity Cruises - Solstice-class:Celebrity Silhouette3rd Quarter 20112,850Celebrity Reflection4th Quarter 20123,000Total Berths5,850

In February 2011, we reached a conditional agreement with Meyer Werft to build the first of a new generation
of Royal Caribbean International cruise ships. The ship will have a capacity of approximately 4,100 berths based on double occupancy and is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2014. We also have an option to construct a second ship of
the same class which will expire on February 28, 2012, subject to earlier acceleration under certain circumstances.

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern
Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have increased deployment to South America
and Australia during the Northern Hemisphere winter months.







Passengers and Capacity

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see Description of Certain Line Items and Selected Operational and Financial Metrics under Item 7.Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions). (Amounts include Pullmantur effective January 1, 2007):



Year Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Passengers Carried4,585,9203,970,2784,017,5543,905,3843,600,807Passenger Cruise Days32,251,21728,503,04627,657,57826,594,51523,849,606Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)30,911,07327,821,22426,463,63725,155,76822,392,478Occupancy104.3%102.5%104.5%105.7%106.5%

Cruise Pricing

Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. Prices
vary depending on the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. Although we grant credit terms to certain travel agencies and tour operators outside of the United States, our payment terms
generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on
demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance. Additionally, we offer air transportation as a service for guests that elect
to utilize our transportation program. Our air transportation program is available in major cities around the world and prices vary by gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost. Passenger ticket
revenues accounted for 72.7%, 71.4% and 72.4% of total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

From time to time, we
have introduced temporary fuel supplements to partially offset a portion of fuel costs, which result in an additional fee being charged to the guests. While none of our brands are currently charging fuel supplements, we reserve the right to
reinstate our fuel supplements in one or more of our brands and will continue to monitor our markets and review our position based upon the appropriate facts and circumstances.

Onboard Activities and Other Revenues

In conjunction with our
cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests. We also offer these guests escorted, premium land-tour vacation packages in Alaska, Asia,
Australia, the Canadian Rockies, Europe, New Zealand and Latin America







through our cruise-tour operations, Royal Celebrity Tours. Pullmantur also offers land-based travel packages to Spanish and European vacation travelers including hotels and flights to Caribbean
resorts and sells land based tour packages to Europe aimed at Latin American guests. In addition, we sell cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection.
Onboard and other revenues accounted for 27.3%, 28.6% and 27.6% of total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Segment Reporting

We operate five wholly-owned cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club
Cruises and CDF Croisières de France. The brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of customers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting
systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are
based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.(For financial information see Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.)

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 5,200
full-time and 850 part-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations. We also employed approximately 52,000 shipboard employees. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Based on employee survey results, we believe our employees’ satisfaction level with our organization is strong.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements,
earnings and increased value, which are maintained in amounts related to the value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States
and other international insurance markets.

We maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships
through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited, the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited or the Assuranceforeningen SKULD (Gjensidig). Our protection and indemnity liability
insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on
investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.

We maintain war risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance, on each
ship through a Norwegian war risk insurance organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We also maintain
protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk
insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.

Insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.

We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures
already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. We carry business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations.

All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance
carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance
markets. We historically have







been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be
available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.

The Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of
Passengers and their Luggage by Sea (1974) and the 1976 Protocol to the Athens Convention are generally applicable to passenger ships. The United States has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Athens
Convention Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to those of our cruises that do not call at a United States port. The International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed upon a new Protocol to the Athens Convention on
November 1, 2002. The 2002 Protocol, which is not yet in force, substantially increases the level of compulsory insurance, which must be maintained by passenger ship operators. No assurance can be given as to if or when the 2002 Protocol will
come into force. If in force, no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to provide the level of coverage required under the 2002 Protocol.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal
Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean” and its crown and anchor logo, the name
“Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its logo, the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de
France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships. We believe our trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.

Regulation

Our ships are regulated by various international, national,
state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to
regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic
inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United
States Public Health Service for sanitary conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.

We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to
conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time to
time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Safety Regulations

Our ships are required to comply with international
safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe
management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010. Compliance with these modified standards did not a have a material
effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is
mandatory for passenger vessel operators. All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.

In July 2010, the U.S. adopted the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or
include port stops within the United States. This act requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. We do not expect that compliance
with these provisions will require any material expenditures or materially increase our operating costs.







Security Regulations

Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS
Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports. In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures,
conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.

Environmental Regulations

We are subject to various United States and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things,
discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and
other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of cruise ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant
authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, will likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Our
ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (“IMO”) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the “MARPOL Regulations”), which includes requirements
designed to prevent and minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

On January 1, 2010, a European Union directive regarding the use of low sulfur fuels for ships became effective. The directive
places a 0.1% sulfur content limit on all marine fuels used by such ships while berthed or anchored in European Union ports. Compliance with this directive requires us to use distillate fuels such as marine gas oil. This has not had a material
effect on our fuel and operating costs.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used
by ships operating worldwide, which are currently 4.5% and are required to be reduced to 3.5% by January 1, 2012. We do not expect that this required reduction will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. These regulations will
also require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be reduced to 0.5% by January 1, 2020, subject to a feasibility review to be completed by IMO no later than 2018. If such a reduced limitation is implemented worldwide in 2020,
our fuel costs could increase significantly.

The MARPOL Regulations also establish special Emission Control Areas
(“ECAs”) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these areas. As of July 1, 2010, ships operating in designated ECAs were required to reduce their fuel sulfur content from 1.5% to 1.0%. Under these
regulations, ships operating in ECAs will be required to further reduce their fuel sulfur content to 0.1% beginning on January 1, 2015.

As of the date of this report, both the Baltic Sea and the North Sea/English Channel have been established as ECAs. During 2010, the IMO accepted and adopted the application by the United States, France
and Canada to designate as an ECA waters within 200 nautical miles of their east, west and gulf coasts, as applicable, as well as the Hawaiian Islands, but excluding certain areas within the Caribbean Basin such as the Bahamas, the Canadian Arctic,
Western Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. This designation will be effective as of August 1, 2012. In addition, the United States has applied to designate the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands as an ECA. This request was
approved by the IMO at the Marine Environment Protection Committee in September 2010. If adopted, this ECA would likely come into effect during the summer of 2013.

As of the date hereof, the required sulfur content reductions in the existing ECAs has not had a material impact on our operations and we do not expect the initial required sulfur content reductions in
either the United States and Canadian ECA or the proposed Puerto Rico/US Virgin Islands ECA will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. However, the additional reduction to 0.1% as of January 1, 2015 could significantly
increase our costs after this date based on current capacities, fuel prices, itineraries and technologies. The cost impact from implementing progressively







lower sulfur content requirements after January 1, 2015 is not reasonably determinable given the length of time until such possible implementation and the applicability of many possible
mitigating factors, such as changes in the future supply and demand for fuel, the development of emissions abatement technologies, including new engine designs or exhaust gas treatment systems, the cost migration effects of equivalent compliance
initiatives and new fuel conservation initiatives.

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Coast Guard
relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of water pollution. Pursuant to United States Coast Guard regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $347.2 million as a condition to obtaining the
required certificates.

Labor Regulations

The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”).
The Convention, which will be effective one year following ratification by at least 30 countries representing at least 33% of the world gross tonnage, reflects standards and conditions to govern all aspects of crew management for ships in
international commerce, including additional requirements relating to the health, safety and status of crewmembers not previously in effect. The Convention is expected to be ratified sometime in 2011, in which case it would enter into force in 2012.
Our expenses will likely increase following its effectiveness; however, the amount of the increase is not reasonably determinable pending the enactment of legislation to implement new standards outlined in the Convention by the enacting countries.

Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as
casualty and personal injury. Pursuant to the United States Federal Maritime Commission regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $30.0 million for our ship-operating companies as a condition to
obtaining the required certificates. In December 2009, the United States Federal Maritime Commission issued an inquiry to solicit information concerning the benefits and burdens of the financial responsibility regulations which could result in
enactment of revisions to the regulations that could significantly increase the amount of our bonds and accordingly increase our costs of compliance.

We are also required by the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these
jurisdictions. In the United Kingdom, we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately £30.5 million. We are also required to pay to the United Kingdom Civil Aviation
Authority a non-refundable levy of £2.50 per guest where we arrange a flight as part of the cruise vacation.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons

In 2010, the United States Department of Transportation issued regulations (the “New ADA Regulations”) addressing various issues applicable to passenger vessels under the American with
Disabilities Act (the “ADA”). Part I of the New ADA Regulations, which include required reservation policies for disabled guests and requirements for aids and services to disabled passengers, became effective starting in January 2011. We
are in compliance with Part I of the New ADA Regulations and did not make any material expenditures to comply. Part II, when issued, is expected to address physical accessibility standards. While we believe our vessels have been designed and
outfitted to meet the needs of our disabled guests, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses in response to Part II of the New ADA Regulations.







Taxation of the Company

United States Federal Income Tax

The following discussion of the
application of the United States federal income tax laws to us and our subsidiaries is based on the current provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, and court decisions. All of
the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of
the Internal Revenue Code

We and our subsidiary, Celebrity Cruises Inc., the operator of Celebrity Cruises and Azamara
Club Cruises, are foreign corporations engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and our ship-owning subsidiaries are foreign corporations that, in many cases, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources
within the United States. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or incidental to the
international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to
the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883. In 2005, final regulations became effective under Section 883, which, among other things, narrowed somewhat the scope of activities
that are considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. The activities listed in the regulations as not being incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of
air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. To the extent the income from these activities is earned from sources within the United States, that income will be subject to United States taxation.

Under certain circumstances, changes in the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders could cause our common
stock not to be “regularly traded on an established securities market” within the meaning of the regulations under Section 883. To substantially reduce any such risk, in May 2000, our Articles of Incorporation were amended to prohibit
any person, other than our two existing largest shareholders, from owning, directly or constructively as determined for purposes of Section 883(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated under it, more than 4.9% of the
relevant class or classes of our shares. Under Liberian law, this amendment may not be enforceable with respect to shares of common stock that were voted against the amendment or that were recorded as abstaining from the vote.

Also, it should be noted that Section 883 has been the subject of legislative modifications in past years that have had the effect
of limiting its availability to certain taxpayers, and there can be no assurance that future legislation will not preclude us from obtaining the benefits of Section 883.







Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

If we, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of Section 883
of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our
ships.

If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries,
each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing
of a ship. Such United States source gross transportation income may be determined under any reasonable method, including ratios of days traveling directly to or from United States ports to total days traveling, or of the lessee’s United States
source gross income from the ship (as determined under the source rules discussed in the preceding paragraph, and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth therein) to the lessee’s total gross income from the ship.

Maltese Income Tax

Our
Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta. No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization. Instead, a licensed shipping
organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities
and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or
ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to
normal Maltese corporate income tax.

United Kingdom Income Tax

TheBrilliance of the Seasis operated by a company that is strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, which has
elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”). Commencing in 2011, to facilitate our growth strategy, an additional eleven ships from our fleet will be operated by a newly created company that is
strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom and will also elect to be subject to the U.K. tonnage tax regime.

Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying
vessels. Normal United Kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax







regime include being subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer
training requirement. Failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our United Kingdom
income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

State Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries
are subject to various United States state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes. Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of
the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have
a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the United States or other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify
for exemption under Section 883 or tonnage tax regimes. The tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented.

Website Access to Reports

We make available, free of charge, access to our
Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.

Executive Officers of the Company

As of February 24, 2011, our
executive officers are:



NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain63Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein51President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalDaniel J. Hanrahan53President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesGonzalo Chico Barbier50President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturLawrence Pimentel59President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesBrian J. Rice52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara58Executive Vice President, MaritimeMichael W. Bayley52Executive Vice President, International

Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain has been
involved in the shipping industry for over 30 years.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President of Royal Caribbean
International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand
Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry
Association of America) in 2001.







Daniel J. Hanrahan has served as President of Celebrity Cruises since February 2005 and as
its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Hanrahan served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Cruises until July 2009. From 1999 until February 2005, Mr. Hanrahan served in a variety of positions
with the Royal Caribbean International brand, including Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing.

Gonzalo Chico Barbier has
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pullmantur since June 2008. From 1995 to June 2008, Mr. Chico served as Executive President of TNT Spain, a division of TNT, a global distribution, logistics and international mail service
company. From 1986 until 1995, Mr. Chico was employed in a variety of positions with Ford Motor Company in Spain and in the United Kingdom, including Pan-European Fleet Business Manager of Ford of Europe, Ltd.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009. From 2001 until January
2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and
Mediterranean. From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival
Corp.’s Cunard Line.

Brian J. Rice has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November
2006. Mr. Rice has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1989 in a variety of positions including Executive Vice President, Revenue Performance. In such capacity, Mr. Rice was responsible for revenue management, air/sea, groups,
international operations, decision support, reservations and customer service for both Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime, since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our
Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a
naval architect and engineer.

Michael W. Bayley has served as Executive Vice President, International since May 2010. In this
capacity, he is responsible for the international sales, marketing and other international business operations for Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises. Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for
over 29 years, serving in a number of roles including, most recently, as Senior Vice President, International. During his tenure with us, Mr. Bayley has also served as Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International
where he oversaw worldwide hotel operations and onboard revenue as well as Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

