Item 1. Business.



General



We are the world’s second largest cruise company. We own Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club Cruises, CDF Croisières de France and a 50% joint venture interest in TUI Cruises. Together, these six brands operate a combined43ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately105,750berths as ofDecember 31, 2014.



Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately480destinations on allsevencontinents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world which primarily focus on our global guest sourcing.



We compete principally on the basis of exceptional service provided by our crew, innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests.



We believe cruising continues to be a popular vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities. In addition, we believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic.



Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure evolved over the years and the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.



Our Brands



Our global brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Club Cruises. These brands are complemented by our Pullmantur brand, which has been tailored to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America; our CDF Croisières de France brand, which provides us with a tailored product targeted at the French market; and our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, which is specifically tailored for the German market.

The operating results of all of our brands are included in our consolidated results of operations, except for TUI Cruises, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. See Note 1.Generaland Note 6.Other Assetsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.



We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In









addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value.



Royal Caribbean International



We currently operate 22 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 64,150 berths under our Royal Caribbean International brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. In October 2014, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the 4,150 berthQuantumof the Seas, its first newbuild since 2010 and the first of a new generation of cruise ships. In addition, we currently have four ships on order for our Royal Caribbean International brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 19,200 berths. These include our second Quantum-class ship, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2015, our third Oasis-class ship and third Quantum-class ship, each of which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016 and our fourth Oasis-class ship, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2018. Additionally, we announced that we will redeployMajesty of the Seasfrom Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in 2016. Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal, South America and New Zealand.



Royal Caribbean International is positioned at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or shorter and feature a casual ambiance as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand also enables it to attract guests from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. This allows Royal Caribbean International to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry. Royal Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International’s product offerings represent excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children. Because of the brand’s extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.



Royal Caribbean International has a ship upgrade program designed to incorporate certain of the most popular features of our newer ships across the fleet. From 2011 to 2014, a total of 14 ships have been upgraded under this program. An additional four ships are currently undergoing or scheduled for upgrades in 2015.



Celebrity Cruises



We currently operate 11 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 24,900 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 23 nights. In February 2015, we entered into construction agreements with STX France to build two new ships of a new generation of Celebrity Cruises ships.  These 2,900-berth ships, being developed under the name "Project Edge", are expected to enter service in the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2020, respectively. In September 2014, we soldCelebrity Centuryto a subsidiary of Skysea Holding International Ltd. ("Skysea Holding"). As part of the sale agreement, we agreed to charter the ship from the buyer until April 2015 to fulfill existing passenger commitments. As discussed further below, we acquired a 35% equity stake in Skysea Holding in November 2014. Celebrity Cruises offers a variety of itineraries to popular destinations, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America.



Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to target experienced cruisers and quality and service oriented new cruisers by delivering a destination-rich experience onboard upscale ships that offer, among other things, luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine dining, personalized service and extensive spa facilities. In 2013, the brand completed a ship upgrade









program in order to incorporate well-received concepts from its Solstice-class ships.



Azamara Club Cruises



We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from four to 20 nights. Azamara Club Cruises is designed

to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom and Australian markets. The up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium segment and the luxury segment which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service, higher prices and exotic itineraries.



Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destination experiences through unique itineraries with more overnights and longer stays as well as comprehensive tours allowing guests to experience the destination in more depth. Azamara Club Cruises’ focus is to attract experienced travelers who are looking for more comprehensive destination experiences, and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of service. In furtherance of this strategy, Azamara Club Cruises includes as part of the base price of the cruise certain complimentary onboard services, amenities and activities which are not normally included in the base price of most other cruise lines. Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Northern and Western Europe, the Mediterranean, South and Central America, the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean and North America.



Pullmantur



We currently operate three ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 6,200 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 17 nights throughout South America, the Caribbean and Europe. Additionally, we announced thatMajesty of the Seaswill be redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in 2016. Pullmantur serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets. Pullmantur's strategy is to attract cruise guests from these target markets by providing a variety of cruising options and onboard activities directed at couples and families traveling with children. Over the last few years, Pullmantur has systematically increased its focus on Latin America and has expanded its presence in that market.



In order to facilitate Pullmantur's ability to focus on its core cruise business, on March 31, 2014, Pullmantur sold the majority of its interest in its non-core businesses. These non-core businesses included Pullmantur’s land-based tour operations, travel agency and 49% interest in its air business. In connection with the sale agreement, we retained a 19% interest in each of the non-core businesses as well as 100% ownership of the aircraft which are being dry leased to Pullmantur Air. See Note 1.Generaland Note 6.Other Assetsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.



CDF Croisières de France



We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 2,800 berths under our CDF Croisières de France brand. CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean, Europe and Caribbean. During the winter season,Zenithis deployed to the Pullmantur brand for sailings in South America. CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a brand tailored for French cruise guests.



TUI Cruises



TUI Cruises is a joint venture owned 50% by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism and shipping company, and is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a product tailored for German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. TUI Cruises operates three ships,Mein Schiff 1,Mein Schiff 2 and Mein Schiff 3, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 6,300 berths. In addition, TUI Cruises currently has three newbuild ships on order at the Finnish Meyer Turku yard with an aggregate capacity of approximately 7,500 berths:Mein Schiff 4,scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2015,Mein Schiff 5, scheduled for delivery in the third quarter of









2016 andMein Schiff 6, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2017.



Other



In November 2014, we formed a strategic partnership with Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"), a Chinese travel service provider, to operate a new cruise brand known as SkySea Cruises. SkySea Cruises will offer a custom-tailored product for Chinese cruise guests operating the ship purchased from Celebrity Cruises. The new cruise line will begin service in the second quarter of 2015. We and Ctrip each own 35% of the new company, Skysea Holding, with the balance being owned by Skysea Holding management and a private equity fund.



Industry



Cruising is considered a well-established vacation sector in the North American market, a growing sector over the long-term in the European market and a developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that market penetration rates are still low and that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.



The following table details market penetration rates for North America and Europe computed based on the number of annual cruise guests as a percentage of the total population:



YearNorth America(1)Europe(2)20103.1%1.1%20113.4%1.1%20123.3%1.2%20133.4%1.2%20143.5%1.3%

(1)Source: Our estimates are based on a combination of data obtained from publicly available sources including the International Monetary Fund and Cruise Lines International Association ("CLIA"). Rates are based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights. Includes the United States of America and Canada.

(2)Source: Our estimates are based on a combination of data obtained from publicly available sources including the International Monetary Fund and CLIA Europe, formerly European Cruise Council.



We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately457,000berths on approximately283ships at the end of2014. There are approximately33ships with an estimated98,650berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2015 and 2019, although it is also possible that ships could be ordered or taken out of service during these periods. We estimate that the global cruise industry carried22.0 millioncruise guests in2014compared to21.3 millioncruise guests carried in2013and20.9 millioncruise guests carried in2012.











The following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the global, North American and European cruise guests over the past five years:

YearWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Total BerthsGlobalCruiseGuests(1)North AmericanCruiseGuests(2)EuropeanCruiseGuests (3)2010391,00092,30018,800,00010,781,0005,540,0002011412,00092,65020,227,00011,625,0005,894,0002012425,00098,65020,898,00011,640,0006,139,0002013432,00098,75021,300,00011,816,0006,399,0002014448,000105,75022,006,06312,260,2386,535,365

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider, Cruise Industry News and CLIA. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

(2)Source: CLIA based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights (see number 1 above). Includes the United States of America and Canada.

(3)Source: CLIA Europe, formerly European Cruise Council, (see number 2 above).



North America



The majority of cruise guests are sourced from North America, which represented approximately55.7%of global cruise guests in2014. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately3.3%from2010to2014.



Europe



Cruise guests sourced from Europe represented approximately29.7%of global cruise guests in2014. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately4.2%from2010to2014.



Asia/Pacific



In addition to expected industry growth in North America and Europe, we expect the Asia/Pacific region to demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term, although it will continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to North America and Europe. Based on industry data, cruise guests sourced from the Asia/Pacific region represented approximately8.5%of global cruise guests in2014.  The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately16.4%from2010to2014.



Competition



We compete with a number of cruise lines. Our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd, which owns Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time. Demand for such activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.









Operating Strategies



Our principal operating strategies are to:



•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,



•further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally,



•focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value,



•strategically invest in our fleet through the upgrade and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across each brand, while prudently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the-art cruise ships,



•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,



•further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner, while supporting our strategic focus on profitability, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, which continue to be the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our consumer outreach programs.



Safety, Environment and Health policies













Human capital



We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business. We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain the best employees, who provide our guests with extraordinary vacations. Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and will remain critical to our success.



We focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure and development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital. We also select, develop and have strategies to retain high performing leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future. To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing potential leaders and developing deep bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining our strong employee-focused culture is beneficial to the growth and expansion of our business.



Consumer engagement



We place a strong focus on identifying the needs of our guests and creating product features that our customers value. We are focused on targeting high-value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights and creating communication strategies that best resonate with our target audiences.



We interact with customers across all touch points and seek to identify underlying needs for which guests are willing to pay a premium. We rely on various programs prior to, during and after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy. We have strategically invested in a number of projects onboard our ships, including the implementation of new onboard revenue initiatives that we believe drive profitability and improve the guest experience.



Global awareness and market penetration



We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including through the use of communication strategies and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the unique qualities of each brand and to broaden the awareness of the brand, especially among the brand's target customer groups. Our marketing strategies include the use of traditional media, social media, brand websites and travel agencies. Our brands engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives.  In addition, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises target repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.



We also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies, which generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to this very important distribution channel by continuing to focus the travel agents on the unique qualities of each of our brands.



We sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to guests outside of the United States and Canada through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of38independent international representatives located throughout the world covering115countries. Historically, our focus has been to primarily source guests for our global brands from North America. We also continue to expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America by tailoring itineraries and onboard product offerings to the cultural characteristics and preferences of our international guests. In addition, we explore opportunities that may arise to acquire or develop brands tailored to specific markets.











Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately47%of total passenger ticket revenues in2014and48%and49%in2013and2012, respectively. International guests have grown from approximately1.8 millionin2010to approximately2.2 millionin2014.



Cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity



We continue our commitment to identify and implement cost containment initiatives. Our most recent initiatives relate to realizing economies of scale and improving service delivery to our travel partners and guests by restructuring and consolidating our global sales, marketing, general and administrative structure. We also continue our initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. These include the design of more fuel-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including propulsion and cooling systems incorporating energy efficiencies.



We are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics. In addition, we continue to pursue our long-term objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade. We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value.



Fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion



We place a strong focus on product innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet. Several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) for the Royal Caribbean International brand and enhanced design features found on our Solstice-class ships  for the Celebrity Cruises brand.



Our upgrade and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate many of our latest signature innovations throughout the brand fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers. Ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio.



We are committed to building state-of-the-art ships and our brands, excluding our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, currently have effective agreements for the construction of four new ships. These consist oftwoQuantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2015 and 2016 andtwoOasis-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2016 and 2018, respectively. We also reached conditional agreements with STX France to build two ships of a new generation for Celebrity Cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2020. The addition of these six ships is expected to increase our passenger capacity by approximately25,000berths by December 31, 2020, or approximately25.1%, as compared to our capacity as ofDecember 31, 2014.



TUI Cruises, our 50% joint venture, currently has effective agreements for the construction of three new ships.  These ships are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2015, third quarter of 2016 and second quarter of 2017, with an expected total capacity of7,500berths.



We continuously evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet.



Markets and itineraries



In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. We make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. Additionally, the infrastructure investments we









have made to create a flexible global sourcing model has made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries.



Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately480destinations in113countries, spanning all seven continents. We are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets.  New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the Asian, Australian, Caribbean, and Latin American markets. Additionally, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in Australia and Latin America during that period.



In an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. Generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. Our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships.



Technological capabilities



The need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. Technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. Moreover, as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. As a result, we have launched several new initiatives, which include among other improvements, revamped websites, new vacation packaging capabilities, support of mobile apps and modern high speed bandwidth capabilities onboard our three largest vessels. We also provided a host of new and innovative guest engaging technologies on our newest ship, theQuantum of the Seas.



To support our strategic focus on improving revenue yields, we began to implement new capabilities to improve our revenue management systems and decision support processes.  As part of this effort, we have introduced new price optimization tools and continue to further leverage the pricing and promotion management capabilities in our reservations system.



Travel agency support and direct business



Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace.  We provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. We also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools.



To support our sales initiatives, we have established a Consumer Outreach department which allows consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners, group vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. In addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, as well as encourage guests to book their next cruise vacations onboard our ships.











Guest Services



We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation.



Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, Crown & Anchor Society, Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage, respectively, to encourage repeat business.  Crown & Anchor Society has approximately

8.4 million

members worldwide. Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage have

2.9 million

members combined worldwide.  Members earn increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. Members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category.  The loyalty programs provide certain tiers of membership benefits which can be redeemed by guests after accumulating the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier.  In addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. Examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days.  We regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests.



Operations



Cruise Ships and Itineraries



As ofDecember 31, 2014, our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, operate43ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 23 nights that call on approximately480destinations.











The following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in2015under these six cruise brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current2015itineraries (subject to change).







ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Anthem of the Seas201520154,150Europe, Eastern/Western/Southern Caribbean, Bahamas

Quantum of the Seas201420144,150Bahamas, Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Asia

Allure of the Seas201020105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean, Europe

Oasis of the Seas200920095,450Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas200820083,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas200720073,600Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Freedom of the Seas200620063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas200420042,100Alaska, Southern Caribbean

Mariner of the Seas200320033,100Asia

Serenade of the Seas200320032,100Southern Caribbean, Europe, Canada

Navigator of the Seas200220023,250Eastern/Western Caribbean

Brilliance of the Seas200220022,100Europe, Western Caribbean, Canada

Adventure of the Seas200120013,100Southern Caribbean

Radiance of the Seas200120012,100Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Explorer of the Seas200020003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Europe, Australia/New Zealand

Voyager of the Seas199919993,250Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Vision of the Seas199819982,000Western Caribbean, Europe

Enchantment of the Seas199719972,250Bahamas

Rhapsody of the Seas199719972,000Europe, South America

Grandeur of the Seas199619961,950Southern/Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Splendour of the Seas199619961,800Europe, Dubai

Legend of the Seas199519951,800Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Majesty of the Seas199219922,350Bahamas

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Reflection201220123,000Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Silhouette201120112,850Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse201020102,850Europe, Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox200920092,850Europe, Eastern/Western/Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice200820082,850Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Celebrity Constellation200220022,150Short Caribbean, Eastern Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Summit200120012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Celebrity Infinity200120012,150Alaska, Panama Canal, S. America

Celebrity Millennium200020002,150Alaska, Asia

Celebrity Century(2)199519951,800Asia

Celebrity Xpedition20012004100Galapagos Islands









ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of OperationAzamara Club CruisesAzamara Quest20002007700Europe, AsiaAzamara Journey20002007700Europe, Asia, Central/South America, Eastern/Western and Southern Caribbean, Panama CanalPullmantur(3)Monarch199120132,350Southern CaribbeanEmpress199020081,600Europe, BrazilSovereign198820082,300Europe, BrazilCDF Croisières de FranceHorizon199020101,400Europe, Southern CaribbeanZenith(4)199220141,400Europe, BrazilTUI CruisesMein Schiff 4201520152,500Northern Europe, Canary IslandsMein Schiff 3201420142,500Europe, Canary IslandsMein Schiff 2199720111,900Europe, Middle East, Southern CaribbeanMein Schiff 1199620091,900Europe, Canary Islands, Southern CaribbeanTotal112,450

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)The year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the brand.

(2)Celebrity Centurywas built in 1995. In September 2014,Celebrity Centurywas sold to Skysea Holdings International Ltd.  As part of the sale agreement, we agreed to charter theCelebrity Centuryfrom the buyer through April 2015 in order to fulfill existing passenger commitments. After the end of the charter period, the ship will be operated by the brand SkySea Cruises.

(3)Does not include Pullmantur’sOcean Dreamas it was delivered to an unrelated third-party in April 2012 as part of a six-year bareboat charter agreement. The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated third-party for an additional four years.

(4)Zenithwas redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France in January 2014.











Our brands, including our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, havesevenships on order. Two ships on order are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH, three are being built in Finland by Meyer Turku shipyard and two are being built in France by STX France. The expected dates that our ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows:

ShipExpected toEnter ServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International—Quantum-class:Anthem of the Seas2nd Quarter 20154,150Ovation of the Seas2nd Quarter 20164,150Oasis-class:Oasis 32nd Quarter 20165,450Oasis 42nd Quarter 20185,450TUI Cruises (50% joint venture)—Mein Schiff 42nd Quarter 20152,500Mein Schiff 53rd Quarter 20162,500Mein Schiff 62nd Quarter 20172,500Total Berths26,700



In addition, we reached conditional agreements with STX France to build two ships of a new generation of Celebrity Cruises ships, known as "Project Edge." The agreements are subject to certain conditions to effectiveness expected to occur in the second quarter of 2015. The ships will each have a capacity of approximately 2,900 berths and are expected to enter service in the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2020, respectively.



Seasonality



Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in Australia and Latin America during that period.



Passengers and Capacity



Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (seeDescription of Certain Line ItemsandSelected Operational and Financial Metricsunder Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):



Year Ended December 31,20142013201220112010Passengers Carried5,149,9524,884,7634,852,0794,850,0104,585,920Passenger Cruise Days36,710,96635,561,77235,197,78334,818,33532,251,217Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)34,773,91533,974,85233,705,58433,235,50830,911,073Occupancy105.6%104.7%104.4%104.8%104.3%



Cruise Pricing



Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. Prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place.  Although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside









of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. During 2014, we developed and implemented revenue management tools that enabled us to better understand and react to the current demand and pricing environment. Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance. Our air transportation program is available in major cities around the world and prices vary by gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost.



Passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately73%,72%and73%of total revenues in2014,2013and2012, respectively.



Onboard Activities and Other Revenues



Our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship.  While many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, catalogue gifts for guests and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. Many of these services are available for pre-booking on the internet prior to embarkation.



In conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests. During2014, we continued to expand the markets in which we sell our cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. Onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately27%,28%and27%of total revenues in2014,2013and2012, respectively.



Segment Reporting



We operate five wholly-owned cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the brand TUI Cruises. We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, our brands (including TUI Cruises) have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.

(

For financial information see Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.)



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, our brands, excluding our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, employed over64,000employees, including58,000shipboard employees as well as5,700full-time and600part-time employees in our shoreside operations. As ofDecember 31, 2014, approximately86%of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Insurance



We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net









book value of each ship. This coverage is maintained with financially sound insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other reputable international insurance markets.



We maintain protection and indemnity liability insurance, which provides coverage for liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims that arise out of, or are the result of, our cruise operations. Our vessels are insured through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited or the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited. Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.



We maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking, on each ship, through a Norwegian war risk insurance organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.



Insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, general liability, off-vessel liability, directors  & officers and network & privacy risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.



We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance.



All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.



International regulations, namely the European Union's Passenger Liability Regulations (effective December 31, 2012) and the Athens Convention 2002 Protocol (effective April 2014 ) require substantial increases to the level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators. Maintaining compliance with these regulations has not had a material impact on operating costs.



Trademarks



We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean International” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its globe with an “A” logo, the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names and other marketing programs. We believe our trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.



Regulation



Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case









ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary and health conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.



We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.



Safety and Security Regulations



Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010. Compliance with these modified standards did not have a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators.



All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.



Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports.  In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.



The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. The cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. A few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized; however, based on proposed regulations issued by the U.S. Coast Guard in January 2015, we do not expect any material costs due to implementing these regulations.



Environmental Regulations



We are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection.  Under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below.









Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (‘‘IMO’’) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the ‘‘MARPOL Regulations’’), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide. Permitted sulfur content was reduced from 4.5% to 3.5% on January 1, 2012. This reduction has not had a material effect on our fuel and operating costs.

The MARPOL Regulations also establish special Emission Control Areas (‘‘ECAs’’) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these areas. As of February2015, there are four established ECAs: the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, certain waters surrounding the North American coast, and the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Since January 1, 2015, ships operating in ECAs have been required to reduce their fuel sulfur content from 1.0%  to 0.1%. We have been planning for this additional requirement for the last several years and continue to take steps to mitigate the potential impact on our fuel cost. Both of the ships delivered in 2014 (Quantum of the SeasandMein Schiff 3) are equipped with advanced emissions purification ("AEP") systems covering all engines. In addition, all of our ships on order will be built with similar capabilities. As these new vessels are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility.

In addition, we have been actively developing and testing AEP systems on our existing fleet. We have now received exemptions for 19 of our ships which will apply while they are sailing in the North American and Caribbean ECAs. These exemptions delay the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of AEP systems on these ships. We believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to execute an effective AEP system retrofit strategy for our fleet.

As a result of these and other mitigating actions, we believe the cost of complying with the 2015 ECA sulfur emission requirement will not be significant to our results of operations in 2015 and the years following.

By January 1, 2020, the MARPOL regulations will require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be further reduced to 0.5%. If such a reduced limitation is implemented worldwide in 2020 and we have not been able to successfully mitigate the impact with evolving technical solutions, our fuel costs could increase significantly.

We have also taken a number of other steps to improve the overall fuel efficiency of our fleet, including our new ships on order, and, accordingly, reduce our fuel costs. We continue to work to improve the efficiency of our existing fleet, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, HVAC and lighting systems. The overall impact of these efforts has resulted in a21%improvement in energy efficiency since 2005 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry.

In July 2011, new MARPOL Regulations introduced mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  These include the utilization of an energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new ships as well as the establishment of an energy efficient management plan for all ships. The EEDI is a performance-based mechanism that requires a certain minimum energy efficiency in new ships. These regulations apply to new vessels commissioned after January 1, 2013. Compliance with these regulations has not had nor do we expect it to have a material effect on our operating costs. In June 2013, the European Commission proposed legislation which would require cruise ship operators using ports in the European Union to monitor and report on the vessels’ annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. We expect that compliance with this regulation, if adopted, will not materially impact our results of operations.











Labor Regulations



The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”) which became effective in August 2013. The Convention reflects a broad range of standards and conditions governing all aspects of crew management for ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect relating to the health, safety, repatriation, entitlements and status of crewmembers and crew recruitment practices. Each of our ships has received its certification of compliance with the requirements of the Convention. We have not incurred and do not expect to incur material costs related to implementation and ongoing compliance with the Convention.

Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations



We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. As a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for three of our ship-operating companies. The required surety amount is currently$22.0 millionper operator. However, under amendments approved in February 2013, the required amount will increase to$30.0 millionper operator by April 2015 and will be subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments thereafter. We do not anticipate that compliance with the new rules will have a material effect on our costs.

We are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions.  In the United Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately£31.5 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in Norway, Finland and the Baltics. These amounts ranged fromNOK 33 milliontoNOK 87 millionduring2014.

Certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons



In June 2013, the U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board proposed guidelines for the construction and alteration of passenger vessels to ensure that the vessels are readily accessible to and usable by passengers with disabilities. Once finalized, these guidelines will be used by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Department of Justice to implement mandatory and enforceable standards for passenger vessels covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act. While we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs of our guests with disabilities, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses given the preliminary status of the proposed guidelines.

Taxation of the Company



The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. In addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure.

Our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation.

United States Income Taxation



The following is a discussion of the application of the United States federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations,









administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code



We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company, owned by us and Celebrity Cruises, Inc., is a ship-operating company classified as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes that may earn United States source income. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883. Additionally, income earned through a partnership will qualify as income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships to the same extent as the income would so qualify if earned directly by the partners. Thus, we believe that United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships earned by the United Kingdom tonnage tax company will qualify for exemption under Section 883 to the same extent as if it were earned directly by the owners of the United Kingdom tonnage tax company.

Regulations under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours.  Our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the United States will be subject to United States taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption Under Section 883



If we, the operator of our vessels, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships.

Because we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. conduct a trade or business in the United States, we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) from United States sources. In addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our United States trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our United States trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a “branch profits” tax at the rate of 30%. We and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain









interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.

If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United States Taxation

We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. earn United States source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping.  The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented.

State Taxation



We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various United States state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes.  Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

Maltese and Spanish Income Tax



Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries, which include the owner-operator of CDF Croisières de France’s ship, qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta.  No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization.  Instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal Maltese corporate income tax.

Pullmantur has sales and marketing functions. These activities are subject to Spanish taxation. The tax from these operations is not considered significant to our operations.

United Kingdom Income Tax



We operate fourteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”).

Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. Normal United Kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement.

Failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related









activities. Our United Kingdom income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Tax

Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company charters certain ships to Brazilian companies for operations in Brazil from November to May. Some of these charters are with unrelated third parties and others are with a Brazilian affiliate.  The Brazilian affiliate’s earnings are subject to Brazilian taxation which is not considered significant.  The charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur are exempt from Brazilian income tax under current Brazilian domestic law. Additionally, some remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the Brazilian market benefit from an exemption from withholding taxes which is scheduled to expire at the end of 2015. If the exemption is not extended, this may result in increased taxation for our Brazilian operations.

Chinese Taxation

Our U.K. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in China. The income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in China under the U.K./China double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. Changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. Our Chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to Chinese taxation.

Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. Changes in the application or interpretation of applicable indirect tax laws or changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations.

Website Access to Reports



We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.









Executive Officers of the Company

As ofFebruary 23, 2015, our executive officers are:

NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain67Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein55President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael W. Bayley56President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalLisa Lutoff-Perlo57President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesLawrence Pimentel63President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesJorge Vilches41President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturJason T. Liberty39Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara62Executive Vice President, MaritimeBradley H. Stein59Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance OfficerHenry L. Pujol47Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer



Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain has been involved in the shipping industry for approximately 40 years.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2014. Prior to this, he served as President of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry Association of America) in 2001. In November 2014, the Board of Directors of Cruise Lines International Association ("CLIA") elected Mr. Goldstein to serve a two-year term as Chairman of CLIA beginning January 1, 2015.

Michael W. Bayley has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Royal Caribbean International since December 2014. Prior to this, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since August 2012.  Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an Assistant Purser onboard one of the Company’s ships.  He has served in a number of roles including as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012 until August 2012. Other positions Mr. Bayley has held include Executive Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012; Senior Vice President, International from December 2007 to May 2010; Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International; and Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

Lisa Lutoff-Perlo has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of  Celebrity Cruises since December 2014. Prior to this, she served as Executive Vice President, Operations for Royal Caribbean International since September 2012.  Ms. Lutoff-Perlo has been employed with the Company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both Celebrity Cruises and Royal Caribbean International.  She started at Royal Caribbean International as District Sales Manager for New England and from August 2008 to August 2012, she was responsible for Celebrity Cruises’ entire hotel operation. In her role as Executive Vice President of Operations, Ms. Lutoff-Perlo was responsible for all of Royal Caribbean International's hotel, marine and port operations.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009.  From 2001 until January 2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and Mediterranean.  From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Cunard Line.









Jorge Vilches has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pullmantur since July 2014. Mr. Vilches has spent the past 10 years in the travel industry, holding various positions with LATAM Airlines Group S.A., one of the largest airline groups in the world whose shares are traded in Santiago. Most recently, from 2012 to May 2014, he served as Chief Executive Officer of LATAM's long haul business unit, the group's biggest division in terms of capacity and revenue, and, prior to that, as CEO of LAN Peru from 2007 to 2012.

Jason T. Liberty has been employed by the Company since 2005 and has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2013.  Mr. Liberty previously served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Finance from September 2012 through May 2013, overseeing the Company’s Corporate and Strategic Planning, Treasury, Investor Relations and Deployment functions.  Prior to this, Mr. Liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as Vice President of Corporate and Revenue Planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as Vice President of Corporate and Strategic Planning.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Liberty was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Bradley H. Stein has served as General Counsel of the Company since 2006.  He has also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company since February 2009 and February 2011, respectively. Mr. Stein has been with Royal Caribbean since 1992.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Stein worked in private practice in New York and Miami.

Henry L. Pujol has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since May 2013. Mr. Pujol originally joined Royal Caribbean in 2004 as Assistant Controller and was promoted to Corporate Controller in May 2007. Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Pujol was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.











