Item 1. Business.



General



We are the world’s second largest cruise company. We own Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club Cruises, CDF Croisières de France and a 50% joint venture interest in TUI Cruises. Together, these six brands operate a combined44ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately110,900berths as ofDecember 31, 2015.



Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately490destinations on allsevencontinents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world which primarily focus on our global guest sourcing.



We compete principally on the basis of exceptional service provided by our crew, innovation and quality of ships, variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests.



We believe cruising continues to be a popular vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities. In addition, we believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic.



Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure evolved over the years and the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.



Our Brands



Our global brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises. These brands are complemented by our Pullmantur brand, which is primarily focused on the cruise market in Spain; our CDF Croisières de France brand, which provides us with a tailored product targeted at the French market; and our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, which is specifically tailored for the German market. The operating results of all of our brands are included in our consolidated results of operations, except for TUI Cruises, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Refer to Note 1.Generaland Note 6.Other Assetsto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.



We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In









addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value.



Royal Caribbean International



We currently operate 23 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 68,600 berths under our Royal Caribbean International brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 24 nights. In April 2015, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the 4,100 berthAnthemof the Seas, our secondQuantum-class ship. In addition, we currently have five ships on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately 23,350 berths. These include our third, fourth and fifth Quantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016, second quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively, and our third and fourth Oasis-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016 and 2018, respectively. Additionally, we announced thatEmpress of the Seaswill be redeployed from Pullmantur to Royal Caribbean International in early 2016 andSplendour of the Seaswill be sold to TUI Cruises in April 2016. Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Panama Canal, South America and New Zealand.



Royal Caribbean International is positioned at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or shorter and feature a casual ambiance as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand also enables it to attract guests from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. This allows Royal Caribbean International to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry. Royal Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International’s product offerings represent excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children. Because of the brand’s extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.



Celebrity Cruises



We currently operate 10 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 23,100 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. In addition, we have two ships of a new generation, known as "Project Edge," on order with an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,800 berths which are expected to enter service in the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2020, respectively. Celebrity Cruises offers a variety of itineraries to popular destinations, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America.



Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to target experienced cruisers and quality and service oriented new cruisers by delivering a destination-rich experience onboard upscale ships that offer, among other things, luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine dining, personalized service and extensive spa facilities.



Azamara Club Cruises



We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from three to 20 nights. Azamara Club Cruises is designed

to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom and Australian markets. The up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium segment and the luxury segment which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service, higher prices and exotic itineraries.











Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destination experiences through unique itineraries with more overnights and longer stays as well as comprehensive tours allowing guests to experience the destination in more depth. Azamara Club Cruises’ focus is to attract experienced travelers who are looking for more comprehensive destination experiences, and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of service. In furtherance of this strategy, Azamara Club Cruises includes as part of the base price of the cruise certain complimentary onboard services, amenities and activities which are not normally included in the base price of most other cruise lines. Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Australia, Northern and Western Europe, the Mediterranean, Central and South America, as well as North America and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean.



Pullmantur



We currently operate three ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 6,200 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 15 nights throughout South America, the Caribbean and Europe. Pullmantur, which operates in the contemporary segment, is designed to attract Spanish-speaking families and couples and includes a Spanish-speaking crew as well as tailored food and entertainment options. While Pullmantur’s strategy over the last several years has focused both on its core cruise market in Spain and on expansion throughout Latin America, significant and continuing challenges in Latin America have resulted in our recent decision to reduce capacity for the brand.  As part of these “right-sizing” efforts, we will redeploy Pullmantur'sEmpressto the Royal Caribbean International fleet in 2016, as well as cancel the intended transfer of theMajesty of the Seasto the Pullmantur fleet. For further information on our right-sizing strategy, please refer to Note 3.Goodwillto our consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



CDF Croisières de France



We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 2,800 berths under our CDF Croisières de France brand. CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean, Europe and Caribbean. CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a brand tailored for French cruise guests.



TUI Cruises



TUI Cruises is a joint venture owned 50% by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism and shipping company, and is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a product tailored for German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market.



TUI Cruises operates four ships,Mein Schiff 1,Mein Schiff 2, Mein Schiff 3andMein Schiff 4, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 8,800 berths. In addition, TUI Cruises currently has four newbuild ships on order, includingMein Schiff 5andMein Schiff 6,with an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,000 berths, which are scheduled for delivery in the third quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017, respectively, and two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,700 berths scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2018 and 2019, respectively. Additionally, we announced the pending sale ofSplendour of the Seasfrom Royal Caribbean International to TUI Cruises, which is scheduled to be completed in April 2016. After the sale, TUI Cruises will lease the ship to Thomson Cruises, a subsidiary of TUI AG, which will operate the ship. Furthermore,Mein Schiff 1andMein Schiff 2are expected to be moved to Thomson Cruises within the next few years.



Other



In November 2014, we formed a strategic partnership with Ctrip.com International Ltd. ("Ctrip"), a Chinese travel service provider, to operate a new cruise brand known as SkySea Cruises. We and Ctrip each own 35% of the venture, with the remaining equity held by the venture's management and a private equity fund. SkySea Cruises, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, commenced operations during the second quarter of 2015









and operates one ship,Golden Era, formerly known asCelebrity Century.SkySea Cruises offers a custom-tailored product for Chinese cruise guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market.



Industry



Cruising is considered a well-established vacation sector in the North American and European markets and a developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that market penetration rates are still low and that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.



The following table details market penetration rates for North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific computed based on the number of annual cruise guests as a percentage of the total population:



YearNorth America(1)(2)Europe(1)(3)Asia/Pacific(1)(4)20113.30%1.20%0.03%20123.33%1.21%0.04%20133.32%1.24%0.05%20143.46%1.23%0.06%20153.47%1.24%0.08%

(1)Source: Our estimates are based on a combination of data obtained from publicly available sources including the International Monetary Fund, United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Cruise Lines International Association ("CLIA") and G.P. Wild.

(2)Our estimates include the United States and Canada.

(3)Our estimates include European countries relevant to the industry (e.g. Nordics, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom).

(4)Our estimates include the Southeast Asia (e.g. Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines), East Asia (e.g. China and Japan), South Asia (e.g. India and Pakistan) and Oceanian (e.g. Australia and Fiji Islands) regions.



We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately472,000berths on approximately288ships at the end of2015. There are approximately44ships with an estimated139,000berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2016 and 2020, although it is also possible that ships could be ordered or taken out of service during these periods. We estimate that the global cruise industry carried23.0 millioncruise guests in2015compared to22.0 millioncruise guests carried in2014and21.3 millioncruise guests carried in2013.











The following table details the growth in global weighted average berths and the global, North American, European and Asia/Pacific cruise guests over the past five years (in thousands, except berth data):

YearWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Total BerthsGlobalCruiseGuests(1)North American Cruise Guests(1)(2)European Cruise Guests(1)(3)Asia/Pacific Cruise Guests(1)(4)2011412,00092,65020,52211,4356,1781,3072012425,00098,65020,81311,6416,2251,4742013432,00098,75021,34311,7106,4302,0452014448,000105,75022,03912,2696,3872,3822015466,000110,90022,97312,4216,4073,118

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources. We use data obtained from Seatrade Insider, Cruise Industry News and company press releases to estimate weighted-average supply of berths and CLIA and G.P. Wild to estimate cruise guest information. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

(2)Our estimates include the United States and Canada.

(3)Our estimates include European countries relevant to the industry (e.g. Nordics, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom).

(4)Our estimates include the Southeast Asia (e.g. Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines), East Asia (e.g. China and Japan), South Asia (e.g. India and Pakistan) and Oceanian (e.g. Australia and Fiji Islands) regions.



North America



The majority of cruise guests are sourced from North America, which represented approximately54%of global cruise guests in2015. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately2%from2011to2015.



Europe



Cruise guests sourced from Europe represented approximately28%of global cruise guests in2015. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately1%from2011to2015.



Asia/Pacific



Cruise guests sourced from the Asia/Pacific region represented approximately14%of global cruise guests in2015. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests sourced from this market was approximately24%from2011to2015. We expect the Asia/Pacific region to demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term, although it will continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to North America.



Competition



We compete with a number of cruise lines. Our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, P&O Cruises, Princess Cruises and Seabourn; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd, which owns Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time.









Demand for such activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.



Operating Strategies



Our principal operating strategies are to:



•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,



•further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally,



•focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value,



•strategically invest in our fleet through the upgrade and maintenance of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across each brand, while prudently expanding our fleet with new state-of-the-art cruise ships,



•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,



•further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner, while supporting our strategic focus on profitability, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, which continue to be the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our consumer outreach programs.



Safety, Environment and Health policies



We are committed to protecting the safety, environment and health of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. We are also committed to protecting the marine environment and communities in which we operate. Our efforts in these areas are guided by a Maritime Advisory Board of experts, overseen by the Safety, Environment and Health Committee of our Board of Directors and managed by our dedicated Safety, Environment and Health Department which is responsible for all of our maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and medical/public health activities.



We believe in transparent reporting on our safety, environment and health performance as well as our corporate responsibility efforts and annually publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative.  This report, which is accessible on our corporate website, highlights our progress with regards to those environmental and social aspects of our business that we believe are most significant to our organization and stakeholders. Our corporate website also provides information about our environmental performance goals and our voluntary reporting of onboard security incidents. The foregoing information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein or in any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.









Human capital



We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business. We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain the best employees, who provide our guests with extraordinary vacations. Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and will remain critical to our success.



We focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure and development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital. We also select, develop and have strategies to retain high performing leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future. To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing potential leaders and developing deep bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining our strong employee-focused culture is beneficial to the growth and expansion of our business.



Consumer engagement



We place a strong focus on identifying the needs of our guests and creating product features that our customers value. We are focused on targeting high-value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights and creating communication strategies that best resonate with our target audiences.



We interact with customers across all touch points and seek to identify underlying needs for which guests are willing to pay a premium. We rely on various programs prior to, during and after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy. We have strategically invested in a number of projects onboard our ships, including the implementation of new onboard revenue initiatives that we believe drive profitability and improve the guest experience.



Global awareness and market penetration



We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including through the use of communication strategies and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the unique qualities of each brand and to broaden the awareness of the brand, especially among the brand's target customer groups. Our marketing strategies include the use of traditional media, social media, brand websites and travel agencies. Our brands engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives.  In addition, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises target repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.



We also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies, which generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to this very important distribution channel by continuing to focus the travel agents on the unique qualities of each of our brands.



We sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to guests outside of the United States and Canada through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of37independent international representatives located throughout the world covering114countries. Historically, our focus has been to primarily source guests for our global brands from North America. We continue to expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America by tailoring itineraries and onboard product offerings to the cultural characteristics and preferences of our international guests. In addition, we explore opportunities that may arise to acquire or develop brands tailored to specific markets.











Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately45%of total passenger ticket revenues in2015and47%and48%in2014and2013, respectively. International guests have grown from approximately2.2 millionin2011to approximately2.5 millionin2015.



Cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity



We continue our commitment to identify and implement cost containment initiatives. In 2015, we consolidated our marine operations organization into a single, global organization in order to better take advantage of synergies, efficiencies and economies of scale of our total fleet. We expect the organization to yield better operating efficiencies while increasing safety and reliability.



We also continue our initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. These include the design of more fuel-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including propulsion and cooling systems incorporating energy efficiencies.



We are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics. In addition, we continue to pursue our long-term objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade. We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value.



Fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion



We place a strong focus on product innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet. Several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) for the Royal Caribbean International brand and enhanced design features found on our Solstice-class ships  for the Celebrity Cruises brand.



Our upgrade and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate many of our latest signature innovations throughout the brand fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers. Ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio.



We are committed to building state-of-the-art ships and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. Our new vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than existing vessels.



Our brands, excluding our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, currently havesevennew ships on order. These consist ofthreeQuantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016, second quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively,twoOasis-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2016 and 2018, respectively, and two ships of a new generation for Celebrity Cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the second half of 2018 and the first half of 2020, respectively. The addition of thesesevenships is expected to increase our passenger capacity by approximately29,150berths by December 31, 2020, or approximately28.6%, as compared to our capacity as ofDecember 31, 2015. In addition, TUI Cruises, our 50% joint venture, currently has agreements for the construction of four new ships.  These ships are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, with an expected total capacity of 10,700 berths.



In addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet. In the current environment of high industry demand, we anticipate placing orders for new ships earlier than historical practice as well as more aggressively seeking to sell older capacity.



Markets and itineraries











In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. We make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. Additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model has made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries.



Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately490destinations in115countries, spanning all seven continents. We are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets.  New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the Asian and Australian markets. Additionally, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the Caribbean, Asia and Australia during that period.



In an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. Generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. Our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships.



Technological capabilities



The need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. Technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. Moreover, as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. For instance, in 2015, we continued to advance our onboard technology in areas such as internet connectivity at sea, guest check-in and dining. We also introduced new mobile-friendly websites for our travel partners and direct customers and new mobile apps to enhance the guest experience onboard our ships.  Additionally, cyber security is a continued focus and we have made and will continue to make significant investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations.



Additionally, as we expand into new markets, we must ensure that we have the proper technology in place to support the market. For instance, our capabilities need to adapt to each of our markets' languages and regulations. As we expand our business, this has been an increased focus for us.



Travel agency support and direct business



Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace.  We provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. We also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools.



To support our sales initiatives, we have established a Consumer Outreach department which allows consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners, group vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. In addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow









guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, as well as encourage guests to book their next cruise vacations onboard our ships.



Guest Services



We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation.



Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, Crown & Anchor Society, Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage, respectively, to encourage repeat business.  Crown & Anchor Society has approximately

9.2 million

members worldwide. Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage have

3.1 million

members combined worldwide.  Members earn increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. Members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category.  The loyalty programs provide certain tiers of membership benefits which can be redeemed by guests after accumulating the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier.  In addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. Examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days.  We regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests.



Operations



Cruise Ships and Itineraries



As ofDecember 31, 2015, our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, operated44ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 24 nights that call on approximately490destinations.











The following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in2016under these six cruise brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current2016itineraries (subject to change).







ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Harmony of the Seas201620165,450Eastern/Western Caribbean, Mediterranean

Ovation of the Seas201620164,150Eastern Asia

Anthem of the Seas201520154,100Bermuda, Canada, Eastern/Western/Southern Caribbean, Bahamas

Quantum of the Seas201420144,150Eastern Asia

Allure of the Seas201020105,450Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas200920095,450Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas200820083,600Northern Europe, Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas200720073,600Western Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas200620063,750Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas200420042,100Mediterranean, Southern Caribbean

Mariner of the Seas200320033,100Eastern Asia and Southeastern Asia

Serenade of the Seas200320032,100Southern Caribbean, Northern Europe, Canada

Navigator of the Seas200220023,250Northern Europe, Southern/Western Caribbean

Brilliance of the Seas200220022,100Mediterranean, Western Caribbean

Adventure of the Seas200120013,100Southern Caribbean

Radiance of the Seas200120012,100Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Explorer of the Seas200020003,250Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Voyager of the Seas199919993,250Eastern Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Vision of the Seas199819982,000Western Caribbean, Mediterranean, Dubai

Enchantment of the Seas199719972,250Bahamas

Rhapsody of the Seas199719972,000Mediterranean, South America, Western Caribbean

Grandeur of the Seas199619961,950Southern/Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Bahamas

Splendour of the Seas(2)199619961,800Dubai

Legend of the Seas199519951,800Eastern Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Majesty of the Seas199219922,350Bahamas

Empress of the Seas(3)199020161,550Western Caribbean

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Reflection201220123,000Mediterranean, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Silhouette201120112,850Northern Europe, Mediterranean, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse201020102,850Northern Europe, Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox200920092,850Mediterranean, Eastern/Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice200820082,850Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Celebrity Constellation200220022,150Western Caribbean, Mediterranean, Middle East

Celebrity Summit200120012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Celebrity Infinity200120012,150South America, Alaska

Celebrity Millennium200020002,150Alaska, Southeastern Asia, Eastern Asia









ShipYear ShipBuiltYear ShipEntered Service(1)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of OperationCelebrity Xpedition20012004100Galapagos IslandsAzamara Club CruisesAzamara Quest20002007700Australia/New Zealand, Southeastern Asia, Eastern Asia, Northern Europe, Eastern/Western/Southern CaribbeanAzamara Journey20002007700Southeastern Asia, Eastern Asia, Mediterranean Eastern/Western and Southern CaribbeanPullmanturMonarch199120132,350Southern Caribbean, Northern EuropeSovereign198820082,300Mediterranean, BrazilCDF Croisières de FranceHorizon199020101,400Northern Europe, Mediterranean, Southern CaribbeanZenith199220141,400Europe, BrazilTUI CruisesMein Schiff 5201620162,500Southern CaribbeanMein Schiff 4201520152,500Northern Europe, Mediterranean, Southern CaribbeanMein Schiff 3201420142,500Mediterranean, Southern Caribbean, DubaiMein Schiff 2199720111,900Dubai, MediterraneanMein Schiff 1199620091,900Southeastern Asia, Northern Europe, MediterraneanTotal123,000

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)The year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the brand.

(2)In March 2015, we announced the pending sale ofSplendour of the Seasto TUI Cruises, which is scheduled to be completed in April 2016. After the sale, TUI Cruises will lease the ship to Thomson Cruises, a subsidiary of TUI AG, which will operate the ship.

(3)Empress of the Seas(also known asEmpress) will be redeployed from Pullmantur to Royal Caribbean International in February 2016. Prior to redeployment,Empress of the Seaswill operate in Brazil.











Our brands, including our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, have eleven ships on order. Three ships on order are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH, four are being built in Finland by Meyer Turku shipyard and four are being built in France by STX France. The expected dates that our ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows:

ShipExpected toEnter ServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International—Quantum-class:Ovation of the Seas2nd Quarter 20164,150Unnamed2nd Quarter 20194,150Unnamed4th Quarter 20204,150Oasis-class:Harmony of the Seas2nd Quarter 20165,450Unnamed2nd Quarter 20185,450Celebrity Cruises — Project EdgeUnnamed2nd Half 20182,900Unnamed1st Half 20202,900TUI Cruises (50% joint venture)—Mein Schiff 52nd Quarter 20162,500Mein Schiff 62nd Quarter 20172,500Unnamed2nd Quarter 20182,850Unnamed2nd Quarter 20192,850Total Berths39,850



Seasonality



Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the Caribbean, Asia and Australia during that period.



Passengers and Capacity



Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (seeDescription of Certain Line ItemsandSelected Operational and Financial Metricsunder Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):



Year Ended December 31,20152014201320122011Passengers Carried5,401,8995,149,9524,884,7634,852,0794,850,010Passenger Cruise Days38,523,06036,710,96635,561,77235,197,78334,818,335Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)36,646,63934,773,91533,974,85233,705,58433,235,508Occupancy105.1%105.6%104.7%104.4%104.8%



Cruise Pricing



Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. Prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category









selected and the time of year the cruise takes place.  Although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. Our cruises are available for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance of sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. In early 2015, in an effort to preserve the integrity of our cruise pricing, we implemented a new policy against introducing incremental discounting on our ticket prices in certain markets within a certain period prior to the sailing date.



Additionally, as we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. For instance, our sale arrangements  in the mainland Chinese market are primarily composed of travel agent charter and group sales with full payment due close-in to sailing, and to a lesser extent, retail agency and direct sales.



We have developed and implemented enhanced revenue management tools and made improvements to our pricing capabilities. Combined, these enhancements enable us to better understand and react to the current demand and pricing environment and to implement a variety of promotions.



We offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost which vary by gateway and destination.



Passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately73%,73%and72%of total revenues in2015,2014and2013, respectively.



Onboard Activities and Other Revenues



Our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship.  While many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, catalogue gifts for guests and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. Many of these services are available for pre-booking on the internet prior to embarkation.



In conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests. During2015, we continued to expand the markets in which we sell our cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. Onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately27%,27%and28%of total revenues in2015,2014and2013, respectively.



Segment Reporting



We operate five wholly-owned cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the brand TUI Cruises. We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, our brands (including TUI Cruises) have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.

(

For financial information see Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.)











Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2015, our brands, excluding our 50% joint venture, TUI Cruises, employed over66,000employees, including60,000shipboard employees as well as6,000full-time and100part-time employees in our shoreside operations. As ofDecember 31, 2015, approximately83%of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Insurance



We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. This coverage is maintained with financially sound insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other reputable international insurance markets.



We maintain protection and indemnity liability insurance, which provides coverage for liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims that arise out of, or are the result of, our cruise operations. Our vessels are insured through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited, the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association or Gard AS. Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.



We maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking, on each ship, through a Norwegian war risk insurance organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.



Insurance coverage for shoreside property and casualty exposures, shipboard inventory, off-vessel liability, directors  & officers and other risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.



We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance.



All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.



Trademarks



We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean International” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name “Azamara Club Cruises” and its globe with an “A” logo, the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names and other marketing programs. We believe our largest brands' trademarks are









widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.



Regulation



Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary and health conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.



We believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.



Safety and Security Regulations



Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010. Compliance with these modified standards did not have a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators.



All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.



Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports.  In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.



The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. The cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. A few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized; however, based on proposed regulations issued by the U.S. Coast Guard in January 2015, we do not expect any material costs due to implementing these regulations.



Environmental Regulations



We are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection.  Under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into









the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below.

Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (‘‘IMO’’) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the ‘‘MARPOL Regulations’’), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide to 3.5%.  The MARPOL Regulations also establish special Emission Control Areas (‘‘ECAs’’) with stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. As of February 2016, there are four established ECAs that restrict sulfur emissions: the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, certain waters surrounding the North American coast, and the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands (the “Caribbean ECA”).



Since January 1, 2015, ships operating in these sulfur ECAs have been required to reduce their fuel sulfur content from 1.0% to 0.1%. This reduction did not have a significant impact on our results of operations in 2015 largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("AEP") systems covering all engines and actively developing and testing AEP systems on our existing fleet. We currently have in place exemptions for 19 of our ships which apply while they are sailing in the North American and Caribbean ECAs and for 2 of our ships that apply while they are sailing in the Baltic and North Sea/English Channel ECA’s. These exemptions have delayed the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of AEP systems on these ships.



We continue to implement our AEP system strategy both for our ships on order and for our existing fleet.  As our new ships are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility.  In addition, we believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to execute an effective AEP system retrofit strategy for our fleet. As a result, we believe the cost of complying with the 2015 ECA sulfur emission requirement will not be significant to our results of operations in 2016 and the years following.



By January 1, 2020, the MARPOL regulations will require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be reduced from 3.5% to 0.5%. While this deadline may be extended under certain circumstances and/or in certain regions, if such a reduced limitation is implemented worldwide or in areas in which a substantial number of our ships operate and we have not been able to successfully mitigate the impact with evolving technical solutions, our fuel costs could increase significantly.



All new ships that began construction after January 1, 2016 will be required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits when operating within the North American and U.S. Caribbean Sea ECA. We have been in the process of evaluating a number of technological alternatives over the last several years to address these new requirements and believe that we will be able to comply with these limits without a significant impact to our operations or fuel costs.



We have also taken a number of other steps to improve the overall fuel efficiency of our fleet, including our new ships on order, and, accordingly, reduce our fuel costs. We continue to work to improve the efficiency of our existing fleet, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, HVAC and lighting systems. The overall impact of these efforts has resulted in a 21.4% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2014 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry.











In July 2011, new MARPOL Regulations introduced mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  These include the utilization of an energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new ships as well as the establishment of an energy efficient management plan for all ships. The EEDI is a performance-based mechanism that requires a minimum energy efficiency in new ships. These regulations apply to new vessels ordered after January 1, 2013. Compliance with these regulations has not had nor do we expect it to have a material effect on our operating costs.



Effective July 1, 2015, the European Commission adopted legislation that will require cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the European Union to monitor and report on the ship’s annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. While we do not expect compliance with this regulation to materially impact our costs or results of operations, the adopting legislation presents the new monitoring and reporting requirements as the first step of a staged approach which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions.



Labor Regulations



The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”) which became effective in August 2013. The Convention reflects a broad range of standards and conditions governing all aspects of crew management for ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect relating to the health, safety, repatriation, entitlements and status of crew members and crew recruitment practices. Each of our ships required to be certified under the Convention, has received its certification compliance. We have not incurred and do not expect to incur material costs related to ongoing compliance with the Convention.

Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations



We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. As a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for two of our ship-operating companies. The required surety amount is currently$30.0 millionper operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments.

We are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions.  In the United Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately£35.1 million. In addition, in 2015 we were required by the Civil Aviation Authority to provide performance bonds totaling approximately£11.9 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in Norway, Finland and the Baltics. These amounts ranged fromNOK 30 milliontoNOK 105 millionduring2015.

Certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons



In June 2013, the U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board proposed guidelines for the construction and alteration of passenger vessels to ensure that the vessels are readily accessible to and usable by passengers with disabilities. Once finalized, these guidelines will be used by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Department of Justice to implement mandatory and enforceable standards for passenger vessels covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act. While we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs of our guests with disabilities, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses given the preliminary status of the proposed guidelines.

Taxation of the Company











The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. In addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure.

Our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation.

U.S. Income Taxation



The following is a discussion of the application of the U.S. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code



We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may earn U.S. source income. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) U.S. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our U.K. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for U.S. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883.

Regulations under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours.  Our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the United States will be subject to U.S. taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption Under Section 883



If we, the operator of our vessels, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from









or incidental to the international operation of our ships.

Because we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. conduct a trade or business in the U.S., we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our U.S. trade or business (generally only income from U.S. sources). In addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our U.S. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our U.S. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a “branch profits” tax at the rate of 30%. We and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.

If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its U.S. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United States Taxation

We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. earn United States source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping.  The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented.

State Taxation



We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various U.S. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes.  Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

Maltese and Spanish Income Tax



Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries, which include the owner-operator of CDF Croisières de France’s ship, qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta.  No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization.  Instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal Maltese corporate income tax.

Pullmantur has sales and marketing functions. These activities are subject to Spanish taxation. The tax from these operations is not considered significant to our operations.

United Kingdom Income Tax



We operate fourteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”).

Companies subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and









commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement.

Failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our U.K. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Tax

Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company charters certain ships to Brazilian companies for operations in Brazil from November to May. Some of these charters are with unrelated third parties and others are with a Brazilian subsidiary.  The Brazilian subsidiary’s earnings are subject to Brazilian taxation which is not considered significant.  The charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur are exempt from Brazilian income tax under current Brazilian domestic law. Additionally, some remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the Brazilian market benefited from an exemption from withholding taxes that expired at the end of 2015, which will result in increased taxation for our Brazilian operations.

Chinese Taxation

Our U.K. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in China. The income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in China under the U.K./China double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. Changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. Our Chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to Chinese taxation.

Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. Changes in the application or interpretation of applicable indirect tax laws or changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations.

Website Access to Reports



We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.









Executive Officers of the Company

As ofFebruary 22, 2016, our executive officers are:

NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain68Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein56President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael W. Bayley57President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalLisa Lutoff-Perlo58President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesLawrence Pimentel64President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesJorge Vilches42President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturJason T. Liberty40Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara63Executive Vice President, MaritimeBradley H. Stein60Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance OfficerHenry L. Pujol48Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer



Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for almost 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as Chairman of the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), the largest cruise industry trade association. He currently serves as Chairman-Elect of the University of Miami Board of Trustees as well as on the National Board of the Posse Foundation. He is also former chairman of the Miami Business Forum, the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau, and the United Way of Miami-Dade.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2014. Prior to this, he served as President of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry Association of America) in 2001. In November 2014, the Board of Directors of CLIA elected Mr. Goldstein to serve a two-year term as Chairman of CLIA beginning January 1, 2015.

Michael W. Bayley has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Royal Caribbean International since December 2014. Prior to this, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since August 2012.  Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an Assistant Purser onboard one of the Company’s ships.  He has served in a number of roles including as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012 until August 2012. Other positions Mr. Bayley has held include Executive Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012; Senior Vice President, International from December 2007 to May 2010; Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International; and Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

Lisa Lutoff-Perlo has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of  Celebrity Cruises since December 2014. Prior to this, she served as Executive Vice President, Operations for Royal Caribbean International since September 2012.  Ms. Lutoff-Perlo has been employed with the Company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both Celebrity Cruises and Royal Caribbean International.  She started at Royal Caribbean International as District Sales Manager for New England and from August 2008 to August 2012, she was responsible for Celebrity Cruises’ entire hotel operation. In her role as Executive Vice President of Operations, Ms. Lutoff-Perlo was responsible for all of Royal Caribbean International's hotel, marine and port operations.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009.  From 2001 until January 2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and Mediterranean.  From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President









and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Cunard Line.

Jorge Vilches has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pullmantur since July 2014. Mr. Vilches has spent the past 10 years in the travel industry, holding various positions with LATAM Airlines Group S.A., one of the largest airline groups in the world whose shares are traded in Santiago. Most recently, from 2012 to May 2014, he served as Chief Executive Officer of LATAM's long haul business unit, the group's biggest division in terms of capacity and revenue, and, prior to that, as CEO of LAN Peru from 2007 to 2012.

Jason T. Liberty has been employed by the Company since 2005 and has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2013.  Mr. Liberty previously served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Finance from September 2012 through May 2013, overseeing the Company’s Corporate and Strategic Planning, Treasury, Investor Relations and Deployment functions.  Prior to this, Mr. Liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as Vice President of Corporate and Revenue Planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as Vice President of Corporate and Strategic Planning.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Liberty was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Bradley H. Stein has served as General Counsel of the Company since 2006.  He has also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of the Company since February 2009 and February 2011, respectively. Mr. Stein has been with Royal Caribbean since 1992.  Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Stein worked in private practice in New York and Miami.

Henry L. Pujol has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since May 2013. Mr. Pujol originally joined Royal Caribbean in 2004 as Assistant Controller and was promoted to Corporate Controller in May 2007. Before joining Royal Caribbean, Mr. Pujol was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of KPMG LLP.











