Item 1.    Business

General

Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its corporate structure evolved over the years and the current parent
corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.

We
are the world's second largest cruise company. We own Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Pullmantur, Azamara Club Cruises and CDF Croisières de France,
as well as TUI Cruises through a 50% joint venture. Together, these six brands operate a combined 41 ships in the cruise vacation industry with an aggregate capacity of approximately 98,650
berths as of December 31, 2012.

Our
ships operate on a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on approximately 455 destinations on all seven continents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida,
we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world which focus on our global guest sourcing.

We
compete principally on the basis of exceptional service provided by our crew; innovation and quality of ships; variety of itineraries; choice of destinations; and price. We believe
that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and revitalization of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest
signature innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests.

We
believe cruising continues to be a widely accepted vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of shipboard and shoreside activities. In addition, we
believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic.

Our Brands

Our global brands include Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Club Cruises. These brands are complemented by
our Pullmantur brand, which has been tailored to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America; our CDF Croisières de France brand, which provides us with a tailored
product targeted at the French market; and our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises which is specifically tailored for the German market. The operating results of all of our brands are included in our
consolidated results of operations, except for TUI Cruises, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. See Note 1.Generaland
Note 6.Other Assetsto









our
consolidated financial statements under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Datafor further details.

We
believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style
as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e. the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our
brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic
environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term
shareholder value.

Royal Caribbean International

We currently operate 22 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 62,000 berths under our Royal Caribbean International brand,
offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. As previously announced, we will redeployMonarch of the Seasfrom Royal Caribbean
International to Pullmantur in April 2013. In addition, we currently have three ships on order for our Royal Caribbean International brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 13,600 berths
which are expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2014, the second quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2016, respectively. This includes our recently ordered third Oasis-class ship.
Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska,
Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, the Panama Canal, South America, South Pacific and New Zealand.

Royal
Caribbean International is positioned at the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or
shorter and feature a casual ambiance as well as a variety of activities and entertainment venues. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand also enables it to attract
guests from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. This allows Royal
Caribbean International to achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry.

Royal
Caribbean International's strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for
onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities. During 2011 Royal Caribbean International initiated a vessel revitalization program in order to incorporate some of the most popular
features of our newer ships across the fleet. Nine ships were revitalized under this program during 2011 and 2012 and an additional three ships are scheduled for revitalization during 2013.

Royal
Caribbean International offers a variety of shore excursions at each port of call. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International's product offerings
represent excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children. Because of the brand's extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean
International is well positioned to attract new consumers to the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.

Celebrity Cruises

We currently operate 11 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 24,800 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering
cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. Celebrity Cruises offers a global cruise experience by providing a variety of cruise lengths and itineraries to marquee destinations throughout the
world, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean,









Europe,
Hawaii, New England, New Zealand, the Panama Canal, the US Pacific Coast and South America. Celebrity Cruises was the first major cruise line to operate a ship in the Galapagos Islands,Celebrity Xpedition,operating in this location since 2004.Celebrity Xpeditionhas 96 berths and
provides this unique experience on seven day cruises that include pre-cruise tours in Ecuador.

Celebrity
Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises delivers a modern luxury cruise vacation experience that appeals to
experienced cruisers, resulting in a strong base of loyal repeat guests. The brand also appeals to vacationers who have not yet cruised who seek to explore destinations throughout the world and would
enjoy the high quality, service-focused and modern luxury experience the brand offers.

Celebrity
Cruises' strategy is to deliver an intimate experience onboard upscale ships that offer luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine
dining, personalized service, extensive spa facilities, and unique onboard activities and entertainment. The brand began a revitalization program for all four Millennium-class ships in 2010 in order
to incorporate well received concepts from the Solstice-class ships. The revitalization program is expected to be completed in 2013 whenCelebrity
Constellation, the final Millennium-class vessel to be revitalized, will undergo a second revitalization to incorporate additional amenities and staterooms.

Azamara Club Cruises

We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering
cruise itineraries that range from four to 18 nights. Azamara Club Cruises is designed to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom and Australian markets. The
up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium segment and the luxury segment which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service, higher
prices and exotic itineraries to ports which are inaccessible to larger ships.

Azamara
Club Cruises' strategy is to deliver distinctive destination experiences, featuring unique itineraries with more overnights and longer stays as well as thorough tours allowing
guests to truly experience the destination. Azamara Club Cruises' focus is to attract experienced travelers who are looking for more in-depth destination experiences, and who seek a more
intimate onboard experience and a high level of service. Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Northern and Western Europe, the Mediterranean, South and Central America, the less-traveled
islands of the Caribbean and North America.

Azamara
Club Cruises offers a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including gaming facilities, fine dining, spa and wellness, butler service for suites, as well as
entertainment venues. Azamara Club Cruises also includes as part of the base price of the cruise certain complimentary onboard services, amenities and activities which are not normally included in the
base price of other cruise lines.

Pullmantur

We currently operate three ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,300 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering cruise
itineraries that range from four to 12 nights. As previously announced,Monarch of the Seaswill be redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to
Pullmantur in April 2013.

Pullmantur
serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets. Pullmantur also has land-based tour operations and owns a 49%
interest in an air business that operates four Boeing 747 aircraft in support of its cruise and tour operations.

Pullmantur's
strategy is to attract cruise guests by providing a variety of cruising options and land-based travel packages. Pullmantur offers a range of cruise itineraries
to Brazil, the Caribbean and









Europe.
Pullmantur offers a wide array of onboard activities and services to guests, including exercise facilities, swimming pools, beauty salons, gaming facilities, shopping, dining, certain
complimentary beverages, and entertainment venues. Pullmantur's tour operations sell land-based travel packages primarily to Spanish guests, including hotels and flights mainly to
Caribbean resorts, and land-based tour packages to Europe primarily aimed at Latin American guests. In addition, Pullmantur owns a travel agency network that offers a wide array of travel
related products to guests in Spain.

CDF Croisières de France

CDF Croisières de France currently operates the 1,350-berthHorizon. CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the
contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a brand tailored
for French cruise guests. CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean and a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including entertainment
venues, exercise and spa facilities, fine dining, and gaming facilities.

TUI Cruises

TUI Cruises is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering tailored product for
German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. TUI Cruises operates two ships,Mein Schiff IandMein Schiff II, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 3,800 berths. In addition,
TUI Cruises has two ships on order, each with a capacity of 2,500 berths, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2015, respectively. TUI Cruises is a joint venture
owned 50% by us and 50% by TUI AG, a German tourism and shipping company that also owns 51% of TUI Travel, a British tourism company.

Industry

Cruising is considered a well established vacation sector in the North American market, a growing sector over the long-term
in the European market and a developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time
cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for increased profitability.

We
estimate that the global cruise industry carried 20.8 million cruise guests in 2012 compared to 20.2 million cruise guests carried in 2011 and 18.8 million cruise
guests carried in 2010. We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately 432,000 berths on approximately 282 ships at the end of 2012. There are approximately 19 ships with an
estimated 65,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2013 and 2017, although it is also possible that ships could be taken out of service during these
periods. The majority of cruise guests have historically been sourced from North America and Europe.

North America

The North American cruise market has historically experienced significant growth. The compound annual growth rate in cruise guests for
this market was approximately 4.5% from 2008 to 2012. We estimate that North America was served by 144 ships with approximately 212,000 berths at the beginning of 2008 and by 146 ships with
approximately 258,000 berths at the end of 2012. There are approximately 10 ships with an estimated 40,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the North American cruise market between
2013 and 2017.









Europe

As compared to North America, the European cruise market represents a smaller but even faster growing sector of the vacation industry.
It has experienced a compound annual growth rate in cruise guests of approximately 7.6% from 2008 to 2012. This market has recently experienced a number of challenges as a result of the effects of the
Costa Concordia incident and the continued instability in the European economic landscape. However, we continue to believe in the long term growth potential of this market. We estimate that Europe was
served by 102 ships with approximately 108,000 berths at the beginning of 2008 and by 117 ships with approximately 156,000 berths at the end of 2012. There are approximately 9 ships with an estimated
25,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the European cruise market between 2013 and 2017.

The
following table details the growth in the global, North American and European cruise markets in terms of cruise guests and estimated weighted-average berths over the past five years:

YearGlobalCruiseGuests(1)Weighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)North AmericanCruiseGuests(2)Weighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketed inNorth America(1)EuropeanCruiseGuestsWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketed inEurope(1)200817,184,000347,00010,093,000219,0004,500,000120,000200917,340,000363,00010,198,000222,0005,000,000131,000201018,800,000391,00010,781,000232,0005,540,000143,000201120,227,000412,00011,625,000245,0005,894,000149,000201220,823,000425,00012,044,000254,0006,040,000152,000



(1)Source:
Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests, and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally, in North America and Europe are
based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider and Cruise Line International Association ("CLIA").
In addition, our estimates incorporate our own statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.(2)Source:
Cruise Line International Association based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2008 through 2011. Year 2012
amounts represent our estimates (see number (1) above).(3)Source:
CLIA Europe, formerly European Cruise Council, for years 2008 through 2011. Year 2012 amounts represent our estimates (see number (1) above).

Other Markets

In addition to expected industry growth in North America and Europe as discussed above, we expect the Asia/Pacific region to
demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term, although it will continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to North America and Europe.

Competition

We compete with a number of cruise lines. Our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among
others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line
and Oceania Cruises. Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers' leisure time. Demand for such
activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.









Operating Strategies

Our principal operating strategies are to:

•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and
organization operate,•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,•further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues,•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands globally,•focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal
of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value,•strategically invest in our fleet through the revitalization of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across
each brand, while prudently expanding our fleet with the new state-of-the-art cruise ships recently delivered and on order,•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that
provide opportunities to optimize returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,•further enhance our technological capabilities to service customer preferences and expectations in an innovative manner,
while supporting our strategic focus on profitability, and•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, which continue to be the principal industry distribution channel,
while enhancing our consumer outreach programs.

Safety, Environment and Health policies

We are committed to protecting the safety, environment and health of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. We are
also committed to protecting the marine environment in which our ships sail and the communities in which we operate by reducing/mitigating adverse environmental consequences and using resources
efficiently. As part of this commitment, we have established a Safety, Environment and Health Department to oversee our maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and medical/public
health activities. We also have a Maritime Advisory Board of experts as well as the Safety, Environment and Health (SEH) Committee of our Board of Directors which oversees these important areas. In
addition, we publish an annual Stewardship Report on our performance in these important areas, which can be accessed on our brand websites.

Following
the Costa Concordia incident in early 2012, we and other cruise lines performed reviews of safety and emergency response procedures to identify lessons learned and best
practices to further protect the safety of our guests and crew. During this process, we held regular meetings with other cruise companies to propose new industry-wide policies that we
believe will further drive our Company's and the industry's safety performance. A number of these policies have already been implemented and/or publicly announced by the Cruise Lines International
Association as well as shared with international regulators.

Strengthen and support our human capital

We believe that our employees, both shipboard and shoreside, are a critical success factor for our business. We strive to identify,
hire, develop, motivate, and retain the best employees, with backgrounds









and
perspectives as diverse as our guest base. Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and will remain critical to our success.

We
continue our focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation structure, development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen
and support our human capital. We also seek to select, develop and retain leaders to advance the enterprise now and in the future. To that end, we pay special attention to identifying high performing
potential leaders and develop deep bench strength so these leaders can assume leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration,
motivation and innovation, and believe that maintaining our vibrant and distinctive culture is critical to the growth of our business.

Strengthen our consumer engagement

We place a strong focus on identifying the needs of our guests and creating product features that our customers value. We are focused
on targeting high value guests by better understanding consumer data and insights and creating communication strategies that best resonate with our target audiences.

We
interact with customers across all touch points and seek to identify underlying needs for which guests are willing to pay a premium. We rely on various programs prior to, during and
after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy. In 2013, we will continue to strategically invest in a number of potential revenue enhancing projects,
including the implementation of new onboard revenue initiatives. We believe these initiatives will provide opportunities for increased ticket and onboard revenues.

Global awareness and market penetration

We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our cruise brands in various ways, including by using communication strategies
and marketing campaigns designed to emphasize the unique qualities of each brand and to broaden the awareness of the brand, especially among the brand target customer groups. Our marketing strategies
include the use of traditional media, social media, brand websites and travel agencies. Our brands engage past and potential guests by
collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives. In addition, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club
Cruises retain repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.

We
also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies who generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to further developing and strengthening this
very important distribution channel by continuing to focus the travel agents on the unique qualities of each of our brands.

We
sell and market our global brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to guests outside of North America through our offices in the United
Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico. We believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more
quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of 36 independent international representatives located
throughout the world covering 111 countries. Historically, our focus has been to primarily source guests for our global brands from North America. Over the last several years, we have continued to
expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to guests in countries outside of North America through fleet innovation and by responding to the itinerary preferences and cultural
characteristics of our international guests. In 2013, we will continue to focus on the development of key markets in Asia and we will focus on sourcing guests and adding capacity to the markets where
we expect significant growth and profitability, such as China and Australia.









We
are also focused on expanding our Pullmantur brand into Latin America, with particular emphasis in Brazil. We also look for opportunities to acquire or develop brands tailored to
specific markets. TUI Cruises, our joint venture with TUI AG, is a cruise brand targeted at the cruise market in Germany. TUI Cruises complements our other tailored brands including Pullmantur and
CDF Croisières de France.

Passenger
ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the United States were approximately 49% of total passenger ticket revenues in 2012 and 2011, and 45% in
2010. International guests have grown from approximately 1.3 million in 2008 to approximately 2.2 million in 2012.

Focus on cost efficiency, manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity

We are committed to our efforts to identify and implement cost containment initiatives, including a number of initiatives to reduce
energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. These include the design of more fuel efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including propulsion and cooling
systems incorporating energy efficiencies. In addition, we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics. We are also continuing to pursue
our long-term objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade. We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on
invested capital and long-term shareholder value.

Fleet revitalization, maintenance and expansion

We place a strong focus on product innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously
making improvements to our fleet. Several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the "Royal Promenade" (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues),
ice skating rinks, rock climbing walls, miniature golf and full court basketball for the Royal Caribbean International brand, and the design of the ships, contemporary quality dining, spacious
staterooms and suites with verandas, spa facilities and variety of bars and lounges for the Celebrity Cruises brand. In 2009 and 2010, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of sister ships,Oasis of the
SeasandAllure of the Seas,which are the largest and most innovative cruise ships in the
cruise industry. With the same focus on product innovation, Celebrity Cruises ordered a total of five Solstice-class ships, the last of which,Celebrity
Reflection, was delivered in 2012. The Solstice-class ships incorporate many new and improved design features.

Our
revitalization and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate our latest signature innovations and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers.
Ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio. As part of these efforts:

•Royal Caribbean International initiated a vessel revitalization program in 2011 in order to introduce some of the most
popular features of the Oasis-class ships on certain Freedom-class, Radiance-class and Vision-class ships.Liberty of the Seas,Freedom of the Seas,Radiance of the SeasandSplendour of the
Seaswere revitalized in 2011 andRhapsody of the Seas,Mariner of the Seas,Grandeur of the Seas, Serenade
of the SeasandEnchantment of the Seaswere revitalized in 2012 as part
of this revitalization program. An additional three ships are scheduled for revitalization in 2013.









•Celebrity Cruises began investing in the revitalization of the Millennium-class ships in 2010 asCelebrity Constellationunderwent a revitalization of
its onboard amenities and public areas to incorporate certain Solstice-class features. In 2011 and
the early part of 2012,Celebrity Infinity, Celebrity SummitandCelebrity Millenniumadded onboard
amenities, public areas and new staterooms. In 2013,Celebrity Constellationwill undergo a second revitalization to incorporate additional amenities
and staterooms.

We
are also committed to building state-of-the-art ships, and currently our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, have signed
agreements for the construction of five new ships. These consist of our recently ordered third Oasis-class ship which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2016, two ships of a new
generation of Royal Caribbean International cruise ships to be known as the Quantum-class which are scheduled to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2015, respectively,
and two ships of a new generation for TUI Cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2014 and second quarter of 2015, respectively. These additions are expected to increase
our passenger capacity by approximately 18,600 berths by December 31, 2016, or approximately 18.9%, as compared to our capacity as of December 31, 2012. We continuously evaluate
opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet.

In
support of our maintenance programs, we own a 40% interest in a ship repair and maintenance facility, Grand Bahama Shipyard Ltd., which is the largest cruise ship
dry-dock repair facility in the world and is located in Freeport, Grand Bahama. We utilize this facility, among other ship repair facilities, for our regularly scheduled drydocks and
certain emergency repairs as may be required. In addition, the facility serves unaffiliated cruise and cargo ships, oil and gas tankers, and offshore units.

Markets and itineraries

In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market
conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships and our investment in
infrastructure allows us to expand into new markets and helps us reduce our dependency on any one market by allowing us to create "home ports" around the world. In addition, it allows us to readily
deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets.

Our
ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 455 ports in 95 countries, spanning all seven continents. We are focused on obtaining the best possible
long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our
brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to penetrate the Asian, Caribbean, European, and Latin American markets further. In addition, in order to capitalize on
the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have increased deployment to Australia and Latin America.

We
continue to focus on the acceleration of Royal Caribbean International's, Celebrity Cruises' and Azamara Club Cruises' strategic positioning as global cruise brands. In 2012, Royal
Caribbean International continued its global expansion by seasonally adding a second ship in Asia and a third ship in Australia, adding new departure ports in Southern Europe in order to target guests
in key source markets in the region and increasing capacity in Northern Europe. The brand also modified certain of its itineraries for 2012 due to continuing geopolitical unrest in Northern Africa and
Greece. In 2013,Monarch of the Seaswill be redeployed to the Pullmantur fleet and Royal Caribbean International will decrease its European capacity by
approximately 23% in order to mitigate its exposure to the uncertain outlook in the European market. Royal Caribbean International will continue to offer short Bahamas









sailings,
return to year-round southern Caribbean sailings and increase capacity in Asia and China with the repositioning ofMariner of the
Seas.

In
October 2012, Celebrity Cruises introducedCelebrity Reflection, the fifth and final Solstice-class ship, which offers sailings in
Europe and the Caribbean. The addition ofCelebrity Reflectionallows Celebrity Cruises to introduce a Solstice-class ship in Alaska and Australia/New
Zealand, offer a British Isles/Northern European program, and an Asia program for 2013. The added product offerings in Europe result in a 12% capacity increase for 2013. Celebrity Cruises is
expanding its focus on destination by emphasizing exotic ports and calling on new destinations in Australia and New Zealand, Hawaii, the Panama Canal and Asia, with longer cruises in Southeast Asia,
Indonesia, China and Japan.

In
2013, Azamara Club Cruises' voyages will be sailing to 184 ports in 60 countries around the globe with more than 50% of its ports-of-call featuring late night
stays or overnights, allowing guests to experience the destination by day and by night. The Azamara Club Cruises 2013 deployment features South America, including Carnival in Rio de Janeiro,
Antarctica, the West Indies, British Isles and Western Europe, Scandinavia and the Baltics, Eastern & Western Mediterranean, as well as the Indian Ocean and Asia. Also, Pullmantur and CDF
Croisières de France will continue to offer itineraries in the Caribbean, Europe and South America with particular emphasis in Brazil.

In
an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or
enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. Generally, we collaborate with local, private or
governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. Our participation in these efforts is generally
accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partners established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development
and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for
our ships.

Enhance our technological capabilities

The need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. To this end, technology is a pervasive part of virtually
every business process we use in order to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. Moreover, as the use of our various
websites and social media platforms continue to
increase along with the increasing use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this
growth. To further our customer-centricity, during 2013, we intend to continue to improve our customer experiences online through the launch of a new digital platform which will include among other
improvements, revamped websites, new vacation packaging capabilities, support of mobile applications and increased bandwidth onboard our ships helping our guests remain well-connected
while at sea. Active engagement in social media channels is also an integral part of our marketing strategy and a part of our broader consumer engagement strategy and relationship management platform.

To
support our strategic focus on improving revenue yields, during 2012, we began to implement new capabilities to improve our revenue management systems and decision support processes
in advance of our WAVE season (traditionally the first two months of the year where cruise lines experience disproportionately higher volume cruise sales). In 2013, we will continue to build on this
new platform and introduce new price optimization tools and promotion management capabilities in our reservations system.









As
part of the Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises revitalization programs, we have incorporated many of the technological innovations from the Oasis-class ships and
Solstice-class ships, respectively, across our fleet. In addition, to position ourselves for the future, we have embarked on several multi-year information technology strategic initiatives
to ensure that we can continue to innovate and respond to the ever increasing expectations of our guests in a scalable and cost effective manner.

Travel agency support and direct business

Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We believe in the value of this distribution channel
and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with
the marketplace. We also provide brand dedicated sales representatives who assist our travel partners through a number of platforms, including trained customer service representatives, call centers
and online training tools.

To
support our direct sales initiatives, we have established a Consumer Outreach department which allows consumers 24 hour access to our certified vacation planners, group
vacation planners and
customer service agents in our call centers throughout the world. In addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly
plan, book and customize their cruise, as well as encourage guests to book their next cruise vacations onboard our ships.

Guest Services

We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest
pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation.

Operations

Cruise Ships and Itineraries

As of December 31, 2012, our brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, operate 41 ships with a selection of
worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 18 nights that call on approximately 455 destinations.









The
following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in 2013 under our six cruise brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, and their
geographic areas of operation based on 2013 itineraries (subject to change).





Ship(1)Year ShipEntered Service(2)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Allure of the Seas20105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas20095,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas20083,600Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas20073,600Europe, Short Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas20063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas20042,100Short Western Caribbean, South Caribbean

Mariner of the Seas20033,100Western Caribbean, Asia

Serenade of the Seas20032,100Western Caribbean, Europe, Middle East

Navigator of the Seas20023,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Brilliance of the Seas20022,100Europe, Western/Southern Caribbean, Canada

Adventure of the Seas20013,100Southern Caribbean, Europe

Radiance of the Seas20012,100Alaska, Australia/New Zealand/South Pacific

Explorer of the Seas20003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Voyager of the Seas19993,100Asia, Australia/New Zealand

Vision of the Seas19982,000Europe, Southern/Eastern Caribbean, Panama Canal

Enchantment of the Seas19972,250Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bahamas

Rhapsody of the Seas19972,000Australia/New Zealand, Alaska

Grandeur of the Seas19961,950Southern/Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada

Splendour of the Seas19961,800Europe, Brazil

Legend of the Seas19951,800Asia, Europe, Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Panama Canal

Majesty of the Seas19922,350Bahamas

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Reflection20123,000Europe, Eastern Caribbean

Celebrity Silhouette20112,850Europe, Eastern / Western Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse20102,850Europe, Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox20092,850Europe, Long Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice20082,850Alaska, Australia/New Zealand

Celebrity Constellation20022,050Short Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Summit20012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Celebrity Infinity20012,150Europe, Panama Canal, South America

Celebrity Millennium20002,150Alaska, Asia, Panama Canal

Celebrity Century19951,800Alaska, Hawaii, Panama Canal, Pacific Coastal

Celebrity Xpedition(3)200496Galapagos Islands









Ship(1)Year ShipEntered Service(2)ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of OperationAzamara Club CruisesAzamara Journey(4)2004700Europe, AsiaAzamara Quest(5)2006700Europe, South/Central America, Panama CanalPullmanturZenith19921,400Europe, BrazilEmpress19901,600Europe, BrazilSovereign19882,300Europe, BrazilMonarch of the Seas(6)19912,350Southern Caribbean, South AmericaCDF Croisières de FranceHorizon(7)19901,350Europe, Southern CaribbeanTUI Cruises(8)Mein Schiff 1(9)20091,900Europe, Southern CaribbeanMein Schiff 2(10)20111,900Europe, Middle East, Southern CaribbeanTotal98,646



(1)It
does not include Pullmantur'sAtlantic Starwhich has been out of operation since 2009 and will be
transferred to an affiliate of STX France as part of the consideration for building the third Oasis-class ship if the agreement becomes effective. Additionally, in April 2012, we deliveredOcean Dream,
previously operated by Pullmantur, to an unrelated third party as part of a six year bareboat charter agreement. The charter agreement
provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated third party for an additional four years.(2)The
year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the Company, which is the same as the year the
ship was built, unless otherwise noted.(3)Celebrity Xpeditionwas built in 2001.(4)Azamara Journey(formerlyBlue Dream) was built in 2000.(5)Azamara Quest(formerlyBlue Moon) was built in 2000.(6)Monarch of the Seaswill be redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in
April 2013.(7)Horizonwas built in 1990.(8)TUI
Cruises refers to our 50% joint venture.(9)Mein Schiff 1(formerlyGalaxy) was built in 1996.(10)Mein Schiff 2(formerlyMercury) was built in 1997.









Our
brands, including our 50% joint venture TUI Cruises, have five ships on order. Two ships on order are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH, two are being built in
Finland by STX Finland and one will be built in France by STX France. The expected dates that our ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows:

ShipExpected toEnter ServiceApproximateBerthsRoyal Caribbean International—Quantum-class:Quantum of the Seas4th Quarter 20144,100Anthem of the Seas2nd Quarter 20154,100Oasis-class(1):Unnamed2nd Quarter 20165,400TUI Cruises—Mein Schiff 32nd Quarter 20142,500Mein Schiff 42nd Quarter 20152,500Total Berths18,600

(1)In
December 2012, we ordered a third Oasis-class ship through a conditional agreement. The agreement is subject to certain closing conditions and is
expected to become effective in the first quarter of 2013.

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere's summer
months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have increased
deployment to South America and Australia during the Northern Hemisphere winter months.

Passengers and Capacity

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see Description of Certain Line Items and Selected Operational and
Financial Metrics under Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):

Year Ended December 31,20122011201020092008Passengers Carried4,852,0794,850,0104,585,9203,970,2784,017,554Passenger Cruise Days35,197,78334,818,33532,251,21728,503,04627,657,578Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)33,705,58433,235,50830,911,07327,821,22426,463,637Occupancy104.4%104.8%104.3%102.5%104.5%







Cruise Pricing

Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment.
Prices vary depending on the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. Although we grant credit terms to certain travel agencies and tour
operators in select markets outside of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling
period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. In 2013, we plan to use new
optimization tools to set pricing and leverage enhancements for the web and our reservation systems. Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two
years in advance. Additionally, we offer air transportation as a service for guests that elect to utilize our transportation program. Our air transportation program is available in major cities around
the world and prices vary by gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost. Passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 73% of total revenues in
2012, 2011 and 2010.

From
time to time, we have introduced temporary fuel supplements to partially offset a portion of fuel costs, which result in an additional fee being charged to the guests. While none of
our brands are currently charging fuel supplements, we reserve the right to reinstate our fuel supplements for one or more of our brands and will continue to monitor our markets and review our
position based upon the appropriate facts and circumstances.

Onboard Activities and Other Revenues

Our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship.
While many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, gift shop items,
shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, catalogue gifts for guests and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. Royal Caribbean International,
Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises offer functionality on their respective internet sites for selecting shore excursions, specialty dining and amenities prior to embarkation.

In
conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club
Cruises guests. Pullmantur offers land-based travel packages to European vacation travelers including hotels and flights to Caribbean resorts and sells land based tour packages to Europe
aimed at Latin American guests. Pullmantur also owns a 49% interest in an air business that operates four Boeing 747 aircraft in support of its cruise and tour operations. In addition, we sell cruise
vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. We expect to offer these programs more globally in 2013. Onboard and
other revenues accounted for approximately 27% of total revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010.

Segment Reporting

We operate five wholly-owned cruise brands, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur and CDF
Croisières de France. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with TUI AG which operates the brand TUI Cruises. We believe our global brands possess the
versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the
nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e. the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our brands also have similar itineraries as well as









similar
cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of
commercial overlap. As a result, our brands (including TUI Cruises) have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers,
regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief
operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the Company as one segment.(For financial information see
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.)

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 62,000 employees, including 55,000 shipboard employees as well as
6,200 full-time and 750 part-time employees in our shoreside operations. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective
bargaining agreements. Based on employee survey results, we believe our employees' satisfaction level with our organization is strong.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements, earnings and
increased value, which are maintained in amounts related to the value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the British,
Scandinavian, French, United States and other international insurance markets.

We
maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited, the Steamship
Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited or the Assuranceforeningen SKULD (Gjensidig). Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to
additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment
shortfalls experienced by the insurer.

We
maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking, on each ship, through a Norwegian war
risk insurance organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We
also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most
marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.

Insurance
coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.

We
do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of
insurance. We carry business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations.

All
insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or
co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be
cyclical in nature. These cycles are impacted both by our









own
loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially
acceptable. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.

The
Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea (1974) and the 1976 Protocol to the Athens Convention are generally applicable to passenger ships.
The United States has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Athens Convention Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to those of our
cruises that do not call at a United States port. The International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed upon a new Protocol to the Athens Convention on November 1, 2002. The
2002 Protocol, which is not yet in force pending ratification by the requisite number of countries, substantially increases the level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by
passenger ship operators. In an attempt to expedite implementation, the European Union adopted the European Union Regulation 392/2009 ("EU Passenger Liability Regulation") on the liability of
carriers of passengers by sea, which became effective
on December 31, 2012. This regulation incorporates the 2002 Protocol in many ways. Compliance with the EU Passenger Liability Regulation does not have a material impact on operating costs.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises,
Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name "Royal Caribbean International" and its crown and anchor logo, the name "Celebrity
Cruises" and its "X" logo, the name "Azamara Club Cruises" and its logo, the names "Pullmantur Cruises" and "Pullmantur" and their logos, the name "CDF Croisières de France" and its
logo, and the names of various cruise ships. We believe our trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.

Regulation

Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador
(collectively, the "Flag States"). Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our
ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships
operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary
and health conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.

We
believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security,
environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time
to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Safety and Security Regulations

Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea
("SOLAS"), which among other things, establishes requirements









for
ship design, structural features, materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from
time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010. Compliance with these modified standards did not have a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the
International Safety Management Code ("ISM Code"), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for
all vessels, including passenger vessel operators. All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the
ISM Code. It is possible that the Costa Concordia incident could lead to new safety legislation and/or regulations. Although it is too early to assess the impact of any such legislation or
regulation, we already equal or exceed most of the new safety measures under discussion and, accordingly, do not expect that we would be required to incur additional material compliance costs.

Our
ships are subject to various security requirements, including the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code ("ISPS Code"), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime
Transportation Security Act of 2002 ("MTSA"), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports. In order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel
security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with
the ISPS Code and the MTSA.

In
July 2010, the U.S. adopted the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States. This act
requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. In 2013, the U.S. Coast Guard is
expected to issue regulations governing implementation of certain provisions of the act. We already exceed most of the requirements of the act and do not expect any costs that would be material to us
to be required due to these likely regulations.

Environmental Regulations

We are subject to various United States and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under such laws
and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital
and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and
increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may
subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below.

Our
ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization's ("IMO") regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the "MARPOL
Regulations"), which includes requirements designed to prevent and minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates
relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships.

The
MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide. Permitted sulfur content was reduced from 4.5% to 3.5% on
January 1, 2012. This reduction has not had a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. These regulations will also require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be
reduced to 0.5% by January 1, 2020, subject to a feasibility review to be completed by IMO no later than 2018. If such a reduced limitation is implemented worldwide in 2020, our fuel costs
could increase significantly.









In
addition to the global limitations, the MARPOL Regulations establish special Emission Control Areas ("ECAs") with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these
areas. As of July 1, 2010, ships operating in designated ECAs are required to operate on fuel with a sulfur content of 1.0%. Under these regulations, ships operating in ECAs will be required to
further reduce their fuel sulfur content to 0.1% beginning on January 1, 2015.

As
of February 2013, there are three established ECAs: the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel and certain of the waters surrounding the North American coast. In addition, in July
2011, the IMO accepted and adopted the application by the United States to designate the waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands as an ECA. This designation will be effective as of
January 2014.

As
of the date hereof, the sulfur content reductions in the existing ECAs has not had a material impact on our operations and we do not expect the initial sulfur content reductions in
the Puerto Rico/US Virgin Islands ECA will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. However, the additional reduction to 0.1% as of January 1, 2015 will increase our fuel costs
after this date. Based on 2013 itineraries and projected fuel consumption inside these ECAs, as well as current fuel prices and technologies, we estimate that implementation of the 0.1% low sulfur
content requirement in all four currently designated ECAs would increase our 2013 fuel costs by approximately $65.0 million to $70.0 million. These costs may be reduced by possible
mitigating factors, such as decreases in fuel prices, changes in the future supply and demand for fuel, the development of emissions abatement technologies, including new engine designs or exhaust gas
treatment systems, the acceptance of alternative compliance methods, the cost migration effects of equivalent compliance initiatives and new fuel conservation initiatives.

In
July 2011, new MARPOL Regulations introduced mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include the utilization of an energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new
ships as well as the establishment of an energy efficient management plan for all ships. The EEDI is a performance-based mechanism that requires a certain minimum energy efficiency in new ships. These
regulations became effective on January 1, 2013. We do not anticipate that compliance with these regulations will have a material effect on our operating costs.

We
are required to obtain certificates from the United States Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of water pollution. Pursuant to United States Coast Guard
regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $349.4 million as a condition to obtaining the required certificates. The cost of obtaining these
guarantees does not have a material effect on our operating costs.

Labor Regulations

The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new
Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the "Convention"). The Convention, which will be effective starting in August 2013, reflects a broad range of standards and conditions to govern all aspects of
crew management for ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect relating to the health, safety, repatriation, entitlements and status of crewmembers and
crew recruitment practices. Each of our Flag States will be required to enact legislation prior to August 2013 that includes standards at least as stringent as those set forth in the Convention. As of
the date of this report, this legislation has not been finalized. Assuming that the Flag States do not impose regulations that materially differ from the Convention requirements, we do no anticipate
that our compliance costs will be material. There can be no assurances, however, that the Flag States will not seek to adopt additional requirements that could require us to incur unanticipated
material expenses.









Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability
in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. Pursuant to the United States Federal Maritime Commission regulations, we arrange through our
insurers for the provision of guarantees in the amount of $15.0 million for each of our two U.S. ship-operating companies, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Celebrity
Cruises Inc. and a bond in the amount of $15.0 million for one of our U.K. ship operating companies, as a condition to obtaining the required certificates. In February 2013, the United
States Federal Maritime Commission approved amendments to the performance bond requirements that will increase the required guarantees to $30.0 million per operator ($90.0 million in the
aggregate) over a two-year phase-in period. Once phased-in, the guarantee requirements will be subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. The new
rules will become effective in the first quarter of 2014. We do not anticipate that compliance with the new rules will have a material effect on our costs.

We
are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of
our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. In the United Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately
£32.1 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility
in Norway, Finland and the Baltics. These amounts ranged from $4.9 million to $18.8 million during 2012. We are also required to pay to the United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority a
non-refundable levy of £2.50 per guest where we arrange a flight as part of the cruise vacation.

Certain
other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related
amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons

In 2010, the United States Department of Transportation issued regulations (the "New ADA Regulations") addressing various issues
applicable to passenger vessels under the American with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"). Part I of the New ADA Regulations, which include required reservation policies for disabled guests and
requirements for aids and services to disabled passengers, became effective in January 2011. We believe we are in compliance with Part I of the New ADA Regulations and did not need to make any
material expenditures to comply. Part II, when issued, is expected to address physical accessibility standards. While we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs
of our disabled guests, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses in response to Part II of
the New ADA Regulations.

Taxation of the Company

The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. In addition to or instead of income taxation,
virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure.

We
are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation. During 2012, we also operated other businesses
primarily consisting of the land-tour operation in Alaska and the Pullmantur land-tour and air business.









United States Income Taxation

The following is a discussion of the application of the United States federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the
current provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and
the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the
accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and many of our ship-owning
subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company, owned by us and Celebrity
Cruises, Inc., is a ship-operating company classified as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes that may earn United States source income. Under
Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or
incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

A
foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an
equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the United States; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is "primarily and regularly traded
on an established securities market" in the United States or another qualifying country such as Norway. In the opinion of our United States tax counsel, Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, based
on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and our ship-owning subsidiaries qualify for the benefits of Section 883 because
we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in Liberia or Malta, which are qualifying countries, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in
the United States or Norway. If, in the future, (1) Liberia or Malta no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify
for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on Section 883 for tax
exemption on qualifying income would be subject to United States federal income tax on their United States source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto.

We
believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and,
therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883. Additionally, income earned through a partnership will qualify as income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a
ship or ships to the same extent as the income would so qualify if earned directly by the partners. Thus, we believe that United States source income derived from or incidental to the international
operation of a ship or ships earned by the United Kingdom tonnage tax company will qualify for exemption under Section 883 to the same extent as if it were earned directly by the owners of the
United Kingdom tonnage tax company.

Regulations
under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale
of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. Our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the United States will be
subject to United States taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883

If we, the operator of our vessels, Celebrity Cruises Inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the
requirements of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was









repealed,
then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our
ships.

Because
we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. conduct a trade or business in the United States, we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our
separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) from United States sources. In addition, if any of our earnings and profits
effectively connected with our United States trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our United States trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject
to a "branch profits" tax at the rate of 30%. We and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.

If
Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross
transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United States Taxation

We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. earn United States source income from activities not considered incidental to international
shipping. The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented.

State Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various United States state income taxes which are
generally imposed on each state's portion of the United States source income subject to federal income taxes. Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of
companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities
conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.

Maltese and Spanish Income Tax

Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries, which include the owner-operator of CDF Croisières de France's ship,
qualify as licensed shipping organizations in Malta. No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization. Instead, a licensed shipping
organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping
organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to,
the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant Shipping Act and the carrying on of all
ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our
Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal Maltese corporate income tax.

Pullmantur
has sales and marketing functions, land-based tour operations and air business in Spain. These activities are subject to Spanish taxation. The tax from these
operations is not considered significant to our operations.









United Kingdom Income Tax

We operate thirteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime ("U.K.
tonnage tax").

Companies
subject to U.K. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. Normal United Kingdom corporate income
tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to
United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. Failure
to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant
shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our United Kingdom income from non-shipping activities
which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Tax

Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company charters certain ships to Brazilian companies for operations in Brazil from November to
May. Some of these charters are with unrelated third parties and others are with a Brazilian affiliate. The Brazilian affiliate's earnings are subject to Brazilian taxation which is not considered
significant. The charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur are exempt from Brazilian income tax under current Brazilian domestic law.

Other Taxation

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify for exemption or
tonnage tax regimes. The tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented. Our U.K. tonnage tax company is exempt from some taxation in certain jurisdictions
where those companies have business operations under relevant United Kingdom tax treaties. CDF Croisières de France's operations within France are minimal and therefore, its
French income taxes are minimal.

Website Access to Reports

We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports,
as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information
contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein.









Executive Officers of the Company

As of February 25, 2013, our executive officers are:

NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain65Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein53President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalMichael W. Bayley54President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesGonzalo Chico Barbier52President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturLawrence Pimentel61President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesBrian J. Rice54Vice Chairman and Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara60Executive Vice President, MaritimeLisa Bauer-Rudzki49Executive Vice President, Global Sales & Marketing, Royal Caribbean InternationalLisa Lutoff-Perlo55Executive Vice President, Operations, Royal Caribbean International

Richard
D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1988. Mr. Fain has been involved in the shipping industry for over
35 years.

Adam
M. Goldstein has served as President of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein
has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest
Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel Industry Association of America) in 2001.

Michael
W. Bayley has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Celebrity Cruises since August 2012. Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over
30 years, having started as a Purser onboard one of the company's ships. He has served in a number of roles including, most recently, as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012
until August 2012. Other positions Mr. Bayley has held include Executive Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012; Senior Vice President, International from December 2007
to May 2010; Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International; and Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

Gonzalo
Chico Barbier has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pullmantur since June 2008. From 1995 to June 2008, Mr. Chico served as Executive President of TNT
Spain, a division of TNT, a global distribution, logistics and international mail service company. From 1986 until 1995, Mr. Chico was employed in a variety of positions with Ford Motor Company
in Spain and in the United Kingdom, including Pan-European Fleet Business Manager of Ford of Europe, Ltd.

Lawrence
Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009. From 2001 until January 2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief
Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the
Caribbean and Mediterranean. From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.'s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to
February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.'s Cunard Line.

Brian
J. Rice has served as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer since September 2012. Mr. Rice previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
November 2006 through September 2012. Mr. Rice has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1989 in a









variety
of positions including Executive Vice President, Revenue Performance. In such capacity, Mr. Rice was responsible for revenue management, air/sea, groups, international operations,
decision support, reservations and customer service for both Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises.

Harri
U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara
also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations,
and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Lisa
Bauer-Rudzki has served as Executive Vice President of Global Sales & Marketing for Royal Caribbean International since September 2012. Since joining the company in 2002,
Mrs. Bauer-Rudzki has held various key roles within Royal Caribbean International, including, serving as Senior Vice President, Global Sales & Marketing from February 2012 to September
2012 and serving as Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations from November 2007 to February 2012. As Executive Vice President of Global Sales & Marketing, Ms. Bauer-Rudzki
is responsible for Royal Caribbean International's worldwide marketing and revenue management as well as for the corporation's international sales and marketing offices.

Lisa
Lutoff-Perlo has served as Executive Vice President, Operations for Royal Caribbean International since September 2012 after serving as Senior Vice President, Operations for Royal
Caribbean International from August 2012 to September 2012. Mrs. Lutoff-Perlo has been employed with the Company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both Celebrity Cruises and Royal
Caribbean International. She started at Royal Caribbean International as District Sales Manager for New England and more recently, from August 2008 to August 2012, she was responsible for Celebrity
Cruises' entire hotel operation. In her role as Executive Vice President of Operations, Ms. Lutoff-Perlo is responsible for all of Royal Caribbean International's hotel, marine and port
operations.









