Item 1. Business

General

Royal Caribbean was founded in 1968 as a partnership. Its
corporate structure evolved over the years and the current parent corporation, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., was incorporated on July 23, 1985 in the Republic of Liberia under the Business Corporation Act of Liberia.

We are the world’s second largest cruise company operating 39 ships in the cruise vacation industry across five brands with an
aggregate capacity of approximately 92,650 berths as of December 31, 2011.

Our ships operate on a selection of worldwide
itineraries that call on approximately 460 destinations on all seven continents. In addition to our headquarters in Miami, Florida, we have offices and a network of international representatives around the world which focus on our global guest
sourcing.

We compete principally on the basis of exceptional service provided by our crew, innovation and quality of ships,
variety of itineraries, choice of destinations and price. We believe that our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships and to invest in the maintenance and revitalization of our fleet to, among other things, incorporate our latest signature
innovations, allows us to continue to attract new and loyal repeat guests. We have also undertaken to expand globally and in 2012, we expect a significant amount of passenger ticket revenues from outside of the United States.

We believe cruising continues to be a widely accepted vacation choice due to its inherent value, extensive itineraries and variety of
shipboard and shoreside activities. In addition, we believe that our products appeal to a large consumer base and are not dependent on a single market or demographic.

Our Brands

Our global brands include Royal Caribbean International,
Celebrity Cruises, and Azamara Club Cruises. These brands are complemented by our Pullmantur brand, which has been custom tailored to serve the cruise markets in Spain, Portugal and Latin America, and our CDF Croisières de France brand, which
provides us with a custom tailored product targeted at the French market. In addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture which operates the brand TUI Cruises, specifically tailored for the German market.

We believe our global brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry.
Although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e. the sale and provision of cruise vacations). Our
brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. In addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial
overlap. As a result, we strategically manage our brands as a single business with the ultimate objective of maximizing long-term shareholder value.







Royal Caribbean International

We currently operate 22 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 62,000 berths under our Royal Caribbean International brand,
offering cruise itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. In addition, we have two ships on order for our Royal Caribbean International brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 8,200 berths which are expected to enter service in the
third quarter of 2014 and in the second quarter of 2015, respectively. Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of itineraries to destinations worldwide, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the
Middle East, the Panama Canal, South America, South Pacific and New Zealand.

Royal Caribbean International is positioned at
the upper end of the contemporary segment of the cruise vacation industry, generally characterized by cruises that are seven nights or shorter and feature a casual ambiance. We believe that the quality of the Royal Caribbean International brand also
enables it to attract guests from the premium segment, which is generally characterized by cruises that are seven to 14 nights and appeal to the more experienced guest who is usually more affluent. This allows Royal Caribbean International to
achieve market coverage that is among the broadest of any of the major cruise brands in the cruise vacation industry.

Royal
Caribbean International’s strategy is to attract an array of vacationing guests by providing a wide variety of itineraries and cruise lengths with multiple innovative options for onboard dining, entertainment and other onboard activities.
Popular product innovations include surf simulators, an interactive water park called the H2O Zone™, “Royal Promenades” (boulevards with shopping, dining and entertainment venues), ice skating rinks and rock climbing walls. In 2011,
in an effort to maintain consistency across the fleet, Royal Caribbean International initiated a vessel revitalization program in order to incorporate some of the most popular features of our newer ships across the fleet, including the addition of
new specialty restaurants, interactive flat-panel televisions in all staterooms, wireless internet throughout the ships as well as new lounge venues.

Royal Caribbean International offers a variety of shore excursions at each port of call. We believe that the variety and quality of Royal Caribbean International’s product offerings represent
excellent value to consumers, especially to couples and families traveling with children. Because of the brand’s extensive and innovative product offerings, we believe Royal Caribbean International is well positioned to attract new consumers to
the cruise vacation industry and to continue to bring loyal repeat guests back for their next vacation.

Celebrity Cruises

We currently operate 10 ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 21,600 berths under our Celebrity Cruises brand, offering cruise
itineraries that range from two to 18 nights. In addition, we have one ship on order for our Celebrity Cruises brand with a capacity of approximately 3,000 berths which is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Celebrity Cruises is positioned within the premium segment of the cruise vacation industry. Celebrity Cruises delivers a modern luxury
cruise vacation experience that appeals to experienced cruisers, resulting in a strong base of loyal repeat guests. The brand also appeals to vacationers who have not yet cruised who seek the high quality, service-focused and luxury experience the
brand offers. Celebrity Cruises offers a global cruise experience by providing a variety of cruise lengths and itineraries to premium destinations throughout the world, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe,
Hawaii, the Middle East, New Zealand, the Panama Canal and South America. Celebrity Cruises is also the only major cruise line to operate a ship in the Galapagos Islands,Celebrity Xpedition.Celebrity Xpeditionhas 96 berths and
provides this unique experience on seven day cruises with pre-cruise tours in Ecuador.

Celebrity Cruises’ strategy is to
deliver an intimate experience onboard upscale ships that offer luxurious accommodations, a high staff-to-guest ratio, fine dining, personalized service, extensive spa facilities, and unique onboard activities and entertainment. In addition,
Celebrity Cruises introduced the new Celebrity iLounge and became an Authorized Apple Reseller of computers and other media devices onboard certain Celebrity Cruises ships. During 2011, the brand began a revitalization program for all four
Millennium-class ships in order to incorporate well-received concepts from the Solstice-class ships, such as AquaClass, the exclusive spa-inspired stateroom experience with its own private restaurant and the Celebrity iLounge, as well as new
specialty restaurants, cafes and bar and lounge venues.







In 2011, Celebrity Cruises took delivery ofCelebrity Silhouette, the fourth
Solstice-class ship, and is expected to take delivery ofCelebrity Reflection, the fifth and final Solstice-class ship, in the fourth quarter of 2012. These ships continue to introduce new innovations to further improve upon the guest
experience.

Celebrity Cruises’ fleet, dining, service, and spa have been consistently recognized with numerous awards
from consumer cruise travel polls, travel agents and travel industry publications.

Azamara Club Cruises

We currently operate two ships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,400 berths under our Azamara Club Cruises brand, offering
cruise itineraries that range from three to 18 nights. Azamara Club Cruises is designed to serve the up-market segment of the North American, United Kingdom, German and Australian markets. The up-market segment incorporates elements of the premium
segment and the luxury segment which is generally characterized by smaller ships, high standards of accommodation and service, higher prices and exotic itineraries to ports which are inaccessible to larger ships.

Azamara Club Cruises’ strategy is to deliver distinctive destination experiences, featuring unique itineraries with more overnights
and longer stays as well as in-depth tours allowing guests to truly experience the destination. Azamara Club Cruises’ focus is to attract experienced travelers who enjoy cruising and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level
of service. Azamara Club Cruises sails in Asia, Northern and Western Europe, South America and the less-traveled islands of the Caribbean.

Azamara Club Cruises offers a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including gaming facilities, fine dining, spa and wellness, butler service for suites, as well as interactive
entertainment venues. Azamara Club Cruises also includes as part of the base price of the cruise certain complimentary onboard services, amenities and activities which are not normally included in the base price of other cruise lines including wine
with lunch and dinner, bottled water, soda, premium coffees and teas, gratuities for housekeeping and dining/bar staff, self-service laundry and shuttle buses for certain ports.

Pullmantur

As of December 31, 2011, we operated five ships with an
aggregate capacity of approximately 7,650 berths under our Pullmantur brand, offering cruise itineraries that range from four to 12 nights. In February 2012, we entered into an agreement to bareboat charter our shipOcean Dreamto an
unrelated party for a period of six years from the transfer date. The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated party for an additional four years. We anticipate delivery ofOcean Dreamwill take place in April
2012. In addition, in March 2012,Horizonwill be redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France to replaceBleu de Francewhich was sold in November 2010. Pullmantur serves the contemporary segment of the Spanish,
Portuguese and Latin American cruise markets. Pullmantur also has land-based tour operations and owns a 49% interest in an air business that operates four Boeing 747 aircrafts in support of its cruise and tour operations.

Pullmantur’s strategy is to attract cruise guests by providing a variety of cruising options and land-based travel packages.
Pullmantur offers a range of cruise itineraries to Brazil, the Caribbean, Europe and the Middle East. Pullmantur offers a wide array of onboard activities and services to guests, including exercise facilities, swimming pools, beauty salons, gaming
facilities, shopping, dining, certain complimentary beverages, and entertainment venues. Pullmantur’s tour operations sell land-based travel packages to Spanish guests, including hotels and flights primarily to Caribbean resorts, and land-based
tour packages to Europe aimed at Latin American guests.

CDF Croisières de France

CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a brand
custom-tailored for French cruise guests. CDF Croisières de France offers seasonal itineraries to the Mediterranean and a variety of onboard services, amenities and activities, including entertainment venues, exercise and spa facilities, fine
dining, and gaming facilities.







Starting in the second quarter of 2012, CDF Croisières de France will begin operating
the 1,350-berthHorizon. This ship is currently operated by Pullmantur and will be redeployed to CDF Croisières de France in March 2012, following a revitalization to incorporate signature brand elements. Until November 2011, CDF
Croisières de France operatedBleu de Franceunder a one-year charter agreement following the sale of the ship from CDF Croisières de France to an unrelated third party in November 2010.

TUI Cruises

We also
have a joint venture that operates TUI Cruises, which is designed to serve the contemporary and premium segments of the German cruise market by offering a custom-tailored product for German guests. All onboard activities, services, shore excursions
and menu offerings are designed to suit the preferences of this target market. TUI Cruises operates two ships,Mein Schiff IandMein Schiff II, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 3,800 berths. In 2011, TUI Cruises entered
into a construction agreement to build its first newbuild ship, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014. TUI Cruises has an option to construct a second ship of the same class, which will expire on October 31, 2012. Our joint
venture partner is TUI AG, a German tourism and shipping company that also owns 51% of TUI Travel.

Industry

Cruising is considered a well established vacation sector in the North American market, a growing sector in the European market and a
developing but promising sector in several other emerging markets. Industry data indicates that a significant portion of cruise guests carried are first-time cruisers. We believe this presents an opportunity for long-term growth and a potential for
increased profitability.

We estimate that the global cruise industry carried 20.2 million cruise guests in 2011 compared
to 18.8 million cruise guests carried in 2010. We estimate that the global cruise fleet was served by approximately 417,000 berths on approximately 285 ships at the end of 2011. There are approximately 20 ships with an estimated 62,000 berths
that are expected to be placed in service in the global cruise market between 2012 and 2016, although it is also possible that ships could be taken out of service during these periods. The majority of cruise guests have historically been sourced
from North America and Europe.

North America

Although the North American cruise market has historically experienced significant growth, the compound annual growth rate in cruise guests for this market was approximately 3.2% from 2007 to 2011. This
more limited growth is attributable in large part to the recent international expansion within the cruise industry. We estimate that North America was served by 138 ships with approximately 201,000 berths at the beginning of 2007 and by 143 ships
with approximately 248,000 berths at the end of 2011. There are approximately 10 ships with an estimated 34,000 berths that are expected to be placed in service in the North American cruise market between 2012 and 2016.

Europe

In Europe,
cruising represents a smaller but growing sector of the vacation industry. It has experienced a compound annual growth rate in cruise guests of approximately 9.6% from 2007 to 2011 and we believe this market has significant continued growth
potential. We estimate that Europe was served by 104 ships with approximately 100,000 berths at the beginning of 2007 and by 121 ships with approximately 155,000 berths at the end of 2011. There are approximately 10 ships with an estimated 28,000
berths that are expected to be placed in service in the European cruise market between 2012 and 2016.







The following table details the growth in the global, North American and European cruise
markets in terms of cruise guests and estimated weighted-average berths over the past five years:



YearGlobal CruiseGuests(1)Weighted-AverageSupply
ofBerthsMarketedGlobally(1)NorthAmericanCruiseGuests(2)Weighted-Average Supply ofBerths Marketedin NorthAmerica(1)EuropeanCruiseGuestsWeighted-AverageSupply ofBerthsMarketed inEurope(1)200716,586,000327,00010,247,000212,0004,080,000105,000200817,184,000347,00010,093,000219,0004,500,000120,000200917,340,000363,00010,198,000222,0005,000,000131,000201018,800,000391,00010,781,000232,0005,540,000143,000201120,227,000412,00011,625,000245,0005,894,000149,000



1)Source: Our estimates of the number of global cruise guests, and the weighted-average supply of berths marketed globally, in North America and Europe
are based on a combination of data that we obtain from various publicly available cruise industry trade information sources including Seatrade Insider and Cruise Line International Association. In addition, our estimates incorporate our own
statistical analysis utilizing the same publicly available cruise industry data as a base.

2)Source: Cruise Line International Association based on cruise guests carried for at least two consecutive nights for years 2007 through 2010. Year 2011
amounts represent our estimates (see number 1 above).

3)Source: European Cruise Council for years 2007 through 2010. Year 2011 amounts represent our estimates (see number 1 above).

Other Markets

In addition to expected industry growth in North America and Europe as discussed above, we expect the Asia/Pacific region to demonstrate an even higher growth rate in the near term, although it will
continue to represent a relatively small sector compared to North America and Europe.

We compete with a number of cruise
lines; however, our principal competitors are Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises;
Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. Cruise lines compete with other vacation alternatives such as land-based resort hotels and sightseeing destinations for consumers’ leisure time. Demand for such
activities is influenced by political and general economic conditions. Companies within the vacation market are dependent on consumer discretionary spending.

Operating Strategies

Our principal operating strategies are to:



•protect the health, safety and security of our guests and employees and protect the environment in which our vessels and organization operate,



•strengthen and support our human capital in order to better serve our global guest base and grow our business,



•further strengthen our consumer engagement in order to enhance our revenues while continuing to expand and diversify our guest mix through
international guest sourcing,



•manage the efficiency of our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity, with the overall goal of maximizing our return on invested
capital and long-term shareholder value,



•increase the awareness and market penetration of our brands throughout the world,



•strategically invest in our existing fleet through the revitalization of existing ships and the transfer of key innovations across each brand, while
expanding our fleet with the new state-of-the-art cruise ships recently delivered and on order,







•capitalize on the portability and flexibility of our ships by deploying them into those markets and itineraries that provide opportunities to optimize
returns, while continuing our focus on existing key markets,



•further enhance our technological capabilities to support ongoing operations and initiatives, and



•maintain strong relationships with travel agencies, the principal industry distribution channel, while enhancing our

consumer outreach programs.

Health, safety, security and environmental policies

We are committed to
protecting the safety, environment and health of our guests, employees and others working on our behalf. We are also committed to protecting the marine environment in which our ships sail and the communities in which we operate, by
reducing/mitigating adverse environmental consequences and using resources efficiently. As part of this commitment, our Safety, Environment and Health Departments oversee our maritime safety, global security, environmental stewardship and
medical/public health activities. These departments are comprised of technical experts in our focus areas of: Regulatory and Policy Development; Compliance and Incident Prevention; Incident and Situation Response; and Business Stewardship. We also
have a Maritime Advisory Board of experts as well as the Safety, Environment and Health (SEH) Committee of our Board of Directors which oversee these important areas.

Following the recent grounding of the Costa Concordia, we announced a comprehensive review of safety and emergency response procedures across all of our brands to identify lessons learned and best
practices to further protect the safety of all of our passengers and crew. This review is being overseen by the Safety, Environment and Health Committee of our Board of Directors and its Chairman, Mr. William K. Reilly. Mr. Reilly was
recently co-chair of the United States Government’s “National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling.”

Strengthen and support our human capital

Our employees, both shipboard and
shoreside, are our most valuable resources. We strive to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain the best employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as our guest base. Attracting, engaging, and retaining key employees has been and
will remain critical to our success.

We continue our focus on providing our employees with a competitive compensation
structure, development and other personal and professional growth opportunities in order to strengthen and support our human capital. We are also committed to ensuring the very best leaders are developed and selected to lead the enterprise now and
in the future. To that end we pay special attention to identifying high potential leaders and develop deep bench strength so these leaders can potentially assume multiple leadership roles throughout the organization. We strive to maintain a work
environment that reinforces, collaboration, motivation, innovation and believe that maintaining our vibrant and distinctive culture, is critical to the growth of our business.

Strengthen our consumer engagement to enhance our revenues while expanding and diversifying our guest mix with a greater focus on international expansion

We are focused on further strengthening our consumer engagement with the ultimate goal of increasing revenues and yields while continuing
to diversify our guest mix. We increase revenues and yields through various programs prior to, during and after a cruise vacation aimed at increasing our ticket prices and occupancy. In 2012, we plan to continue to strategically invest in a number
of potential revenue enhancing projects, including revitalizing several of our vessels, enhancing our customer loyalty programs, introducing new onboard revenue initiatives and implementing various information technology infrastructure investments
which we believe will provide opportunities for increased ticket and onboard revenues.

We sell and market our global brands,
Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises, to guests outside of North America through our offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Norway, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, Brazil, Australia and Mexico. We
believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react more quickly to local market conditions and better understand our consumer base in each







respective market. We further extend our geographic reach with a network of 39 independent international representatives located throughout the world covering 50 countries. Historically, our
focus has been to primarily source guests for our global brands from North America. Over the last several years, we have continued to expand our focus on selling and marketing our cruise brands to countries outside of North America through fleet
innovation and by responding to the itinerary preferences and cultural characteristics of our international guests. In 2012, Royal Caribbean International will focus on the development of key markets in Southern Europe, particularly France where we
established a new office in 2011, and Asia, where we seek to establish a leading position in the Chinese market. In 2012, Celebrity Cruises will have additional product offerings in Australia and Asia.

We are focused on expanding our Pullmantur brand into other cruise markets. When we acquired Pullmantur in 2006, it was a brand primarily
targeted at the Spanish cruise market. Since then, Pullmantur has evolved and we are focused on selling and marketing the brand to guests in Portugal and Latin America with particular emphasis in Brazil.

We also look for opportunities to acquire or develop brands custom-tailored to specific markets. TUI Cruises, our joint venture with TUI
AG, is a cruise brand targeted at the cruise market in Germany. TUI Cruises complements our other custom-tailored brands including Pullmantur, our Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American targeted cruise line and CDF Croisières de France, which
targets guests primarily in France.

Passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the
United States were approximately 49%, 45%, and 46% of total passenger ticket revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. International guests have grown from approximately 871,000 in 2007 to approximately 2.2 million in 2011.

Manage our operating expenditures and ensure adequate cash and liquidity

We are committed to improving our cost efficiency and continue to implement cost containment initiatives, including a number of initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs.
These include the design of more fuel efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including propulsion and cooling systems incorporating energy efficiencies. In addition, we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity
position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics. We are also continuing to pursue our objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade. We believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of
maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value.

Brand awareness and market penetration

We continue to work to increase the recognition and market penetration of our brands among consumers throughout the world. Royal Caribbean
International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises are established global brands in the contemporary, premium and up-market segments of the cruise vacation industry, respectively. We increase brand awareness and market penetration of our
Royal Caribbean International brand by targeting adults and families who are vacation enthusiasts interested in exploring new destinations and seeking new experiences through high quality and excellent-value cruise vacations. Celebrity Cruises’
communications target vacationers who most likely have prior cruise experience and who seek upscale experiences, luxurious accommodations, fine dining, spa services, and appreciate a high staff-to-guest ratio. Azamara Club Cruises targets
experienced travelers who enjoy cruising and who seek a more intimate onboard experience and a high level of service. Azamara Club Cruises’ communications emphasize its unique itineraries and distinctive destinations experiences with longer
stays and more overnights. Pullmantur is a widely recognized brand in the Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American contemporary cruise markets. CDF Croisières de France is targeted to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market.

Our brands’ marketing campaigns are designed to broaden the awareness of each brand. This includes the use of
traditional media, social media, websites (www.royalcaribbean.com,www.celebritycruises.com,www.azamaraclubcruises.com,www.pullmantur.es,www.cdfcroisieresdefrance.fr) and travel agencies. Our brands
engage past and potential guests by collaborating with travel partners and through call centers, international offices and international representatives. In addition, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises retain
repeat guests with exclusive benefits offered through their respective loyalty programs.







We also increase brand awareness across all of our brands through travel agencies who
generate the majority of our bookings. We are committed to further developing and strengthening this very important distribution channel by continuing to focus the travel agents on the unique qualities of each of our brands.

Fleet revitalization, maintenance and expansion

We place a strong focus on product innovation which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our existing fleet in a cost effective manner.
Our revitalization and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate our latest signature innovations, maintain consistency across the fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers. Ensuring consistency across our
fleet provides us with the flexibility to deploy our ships among our brand portfolio.

We are committed to building
state-of-the-art ships, and currently have signed agreements for the construction of three new ships,Celebrity Reflectionwhich is scheduled to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2012 and two ships of a new generation of Royal Caribbean
International cruise ships known as “Project Sunshine” which are scheduled to enter service in the third quarter of 2014 and in the second quarter of 2015, respectively. These additions are expected to increase our passenger capacity by
approximately 11,200 berths by December 31, 2015, or approximately 12.1%, as compared to our capacity as of December 31, 2011. We continuously evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current
fleet.

In support of our maintenance programs, we own a 40% interest in a ship repair and maintenance facility, Grand Bahama
Shipyard Ltd., which is the largest cruise ship dry-dock repair facility in the world and is located in Freeport, Grand Bahamas. We utilize this facility, among other ship repair facilities, for our regularly scheduled drydocks and certain emergency
repairs as may be required. In addition, the facility serves unaffiliated cruise and cargo ships, oil and gas tankers, and offshore units.

Royal Caribbean International. Founded in 1968, Royal Caribbean International was the first cruise line to design ships for warm water year round cruises. Since then Royal Caribbean International
has launched several classes of ships, each building upon the innovation of the previous class. Several of these innovations and recreational activities such as the “Royal Promenade” (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment
venues), ice and in-line skating rinks, rock climbing walls, miniature golf, full court basketball, enhanced staterooms and expanded dining venues have become signature elements of the brand.

In 2009 and 2010, Royal Caribbean International took delivery of the sister ships,Oasis of the SeasandAllure of the Seas, respectively, which are the largest and most innovative cruise ships in the cruise industry. In addition, Royal Caribbean International introduced DreamWorks Animations®themed activities onboard certain ships and the first Starbucks®Coffee at sea onboardAllure of the Seas.As part of our strategy to maintain brand consistency across our fleet, in 2011, Royal Caribbean International
initiated a vessel revitalization program. Under this program, Royal Caribbean International is introducing some of the most popular features of the Oasis-class ships on certain Freedom-class, Radiance-class and Vision-class ships, including the
addition of new specialty restaurants, a new lounge for Crown & Anchor Society loyalty program members, interactive flat-panel televisions in all staterooms and wireless internet throughout the ship.Liberty of the Seas,Freedom
of the Seas,Radiance of the SeasandSplendour of the Seaswere revitalized in 2011 as part of this revitalization program. An additional five ships are scheduled for revitalization in 2012.

Continuing our commitment to build state-of-the-art ships, Royal Caribbean International entered into an agreement with Meyer Werft to
build two new ships of a new generation of Royal Caribbean International cruise ships, known as “Project Sunshine”. These ships will each have a capacity of approximately 4,100 berths and are expected to enter service in the third quarter
of 2014 and in the second quarter of 2015, respectively. Project Sunshine will offer guests new activities and entertainment concepts while incorporating energy efficiencies and state-of-the-art environmental technologies.

Celebrity Cruises.Celebrity Cruises was founded in 1990 and has introduced several classes of ships, each building on the
brand’s primary strengths. The progression and innovation of these ships have elevated Celebrity Cruises’ position in the premium segment of the marketplace. Some of the brand’s signature elements include the innovative design of the
ships, contemporary gourmet dining, spacious staterooms and suites with verandas, spa facilities and a variety of bars and lounges. The brand continuously seeks to improve its existing fleet to keep current with the newest innovations.







With a strong focus on product innovation, Celebrity Cruises ordered a total of five
Solstice-class ships, four of which have been delivered as of December 31, 2011. The Solstice-class ships are a wide-body construction class of ships with approximately 2,850 berths each (approximately 3,000 berths in the case ofCelebrity
Reflection). This wide-body construction design provides for many intimate areas onboard the ship. The Solstice-class ships incorporate many new and improved design features including the industry’s first ever “Lawn Club”. The
Lawn Club is over a half acre venue featuring live grass for guest enjoyment. Celebrity Cruises also introduced the “Hot Glass Show,” a fully functional glass blowing studio which operates at the Lawn Club on some vessels. The
Solstice-class ships are equipped with solar foils and solar panels, another industry first. Approximately 90% of the ships’ staterooms are outside and approximately 85% of the staterooms have verandas.Celebrity Silhouette, which was
delivered in 2011 andCelebrity Reflection, which is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2012, continue to introduce new innovations to further enhance the guest experience.

In 2010, Celebrity Cruises began investing in the revitalization of the Millennium-class ships asCelebrity Constellationunderwent a revitalization of its onboard amenities and public areas to incorporate certain Solstice-class features. In 2012,Celebrity Constellationwill undergo a second revitalization to incorporate an additional 60 staterooms. In 2011 and
early 2012, respectively,Celebrity InfinityandCelebrity Summitadded onboard amenities, public areas and 60 new staterooms. In the second quarter of 2012,Celebrity Millenniumwill undergo a revitalization to incorporate the
same additions. These planned revitalizations will, among other things, help us increase brand consistency across the fleet and produce opportunities for increased ticket and onboard revenues.

Azamara Club Cruises. In 2007, we introduced Azamara Club Cruises, a new global cruise brand designed to serve the up-market
segment, primarily in the North American cruise market. Since then, Azamara Club Cruises has expanded into the United Kingdom, German, Nordic and Australian markets, incorporating elements of the premium and luxury segments.

In May 2007,Blue Dreamwas redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises, and is sailing under the nameAzamara
Journey. In September 2007,Blue Moonwas also redeployed from Pullmantur to Azamara Club Cruises and is sailing under the nameAzamara Quest. Before redeployment to the Azamara Club Cruises brand, each ship underwent
revitalizations including the upgrade of guest suites and staterooms, and the addition of two new specialty restaurants. During 2012,Azamara Questwill undergo renovations of its onboard amenities and public areas.

Pullmantur.Pullmantur was founded in 1971 and for approximately 20 years it was dedicated to the land tour business in Europe
primarily within Spain. As of December 31, 2011, Pullmantur operated five ships which range in size from approximately 1,000 to 2,300 berths for a total of 7,650 berths. In February 2012, we entered into an agreement to bareboat charter our
shipOcean Dreamto an unrelated party for a period of six years from the transfer date. The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated party for an additional four years. We anticipate delivery ofOcean Dreamwill take place in April 2012.

In May 2007,Zenithwas redeployed from Celebrity Cruises to Pullmantur.Empress
of the SeasandSovereign of the Seaswere redeployed from Royal Caribbean International to Pullmantur in March 2008 and November 2008, respectively. Before redeployment to Pullmantur, each ship underwent revitalizations to incorporate
Pullmantur’s signature elements which include Spanish signage, logos and expanded disco areas.

CDF Croisières
de France.Founded in 2007, CDF Croisières de France is designed to serve the contemporary segment of the French cruise market by providing a custom-tailored product targeted to French cruise guests. Until November 2011, CDF
Croisières de France operatedBleu de Franceunder a one-year charter agreement following the sale of the ship from CDF Croisières de France to an unrelated third party in November 2010. In March 2012, Horizon will be redeployed
from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France. The ship will enter service with CDF Croisières de France in the second quarter of 2012, following a revitalization to incorporate signature brand elements.

TUI Cruises.In 2008, we formed a joint venture with TUI AG, a European tourism and shipping company to operate TUI Cruises, a
German cruise line which began operatingMein Schiff I(formerlyCelebrity Galaxy). In 2011, we soldCelebrity Mercuryto TUI Cruises, to serve as its second ship. The ship was renamedMein Schiff 2and began sailing







in May 2011 following revitalizations to incorporate signature brand elements. TUI Cruises currently has an aggregate capacity of approximately 3,800 berths. In addition, during 2011, TUI Cruises
entered into a construction agreement to build its first newbuild ship, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014. TUI Cruises has an option to construct a second ship of the same class, which will expire on October 31, 2012.

Markets and itineraries

In an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships in
our Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises and Pullmantur brands to new markets and itineraries throughout the world. The portability of our ships and our investment in infrastructure allows us to expand into new
markets and helps us reduce our dependency on any one market by allowing us to create “home ports” around the world. In addition, it allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets.

Our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 460 ports in 96 countries, spanning all seven continents. We
are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. New capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. Our brands have
expanded their mix of itineraries, while strengthening our ability to penetrate the Asian, Caribbean, European, and Latin American markets further. We continuously attempt to place our vessels in those markets and itineraries where we are able to
maximize our long-term profitability. In addition, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere, our brands have increased deployment to Australia and
Latin America.

We continue to focus on the acceleration of Royal Caribbean International’s, Celebrity Cruises’ and
Azamara Club Cruises’ strategic positioning as global cruise brands. In 2011, Royal Caribbean International increased its year-round deployment offerings, including more drive-to and locally sourced products for North American and international
markets. During 2011, eleven of Royal Caribbean International’s ships sailed in Europe, making the brand an industry leader in European capacity during the summer season. Approximately 70% of the eleven ships were marketed to the European
market for guest sourcing. During the Northern Hemisphere’s winter, Royal Caribbean International increased its capacity in Australia by redeploying a second ship to the region.

During 2012, Royal Caribbean International will continue its international expansion by seasonally adding a second ship in Asia and a
third ship in Australia, adding new departure ports in Southern Europe in order to target guests in key source markets in the region and increasing capacity in Northern Europe. The brand has also modified certain of its itineraries for 2012 due to
continuing geopolitical unrest in Northern Africa and Greece.

In October 2012, Celebrity Cruises will introduceCelebrity
Reflection, the fifth Solstice-class ship, which will offer sailings in Europe and the Caribbean. With this added capacity, Celebrity Cruises will continue to grow in Europe and broaden its mix of itineraries during the winter.

The completion of all five Solstice-class ships will enable the brand to further expand and diversify its winter product offerings,
reducing its concentration in the Caribbean from 82% to 58% of capacity when comparing the winter season of 2010 to the winter season of 2013. During the winter season, Celebrity Cruises will have ships in Australia and New Zealand, Hawaii, the
Panama Canal and, for the first time in the brand’s history, Asia with longer cruises calling in ports in Southeast Asia, Indonesia, China and Japan.

In 2012, Azamara Club Cruises’ voyages will be sailing to 181 ports in 55 countries around the globe with nearly 50% of its ports-of-call featuring late night stays or overnights, allowing guests to
experience the destination by day and by night. The Azamara Club Cruises 2012 deployment features South America, including Carnival in Rio de Janeiro, Antarctica, the West Indies, British Isles and Western Europe, Scandinavia and the Baltics,
Eastern & Western Mediterranean, as well as the Indian Ocean and Asia. Also, Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France will continue to offer itineraries in the Caribbean, Europe and South America with particular emphasis in Brazil.

In an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for
our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure,







including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. Generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial
assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. In exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. During 2011, the new pier and port facilities which we invested in at the Port of
Falmouth, Jamaica became operational. In addition to establishing a new port and shoreside facility to improve guest experience, Falmouth allows for the simultaneous berthing of one Oasis-class and one Freedom-class ship.

Enhance technological capabilities to support ongoing operations and initiatives

The need to develop and use technology continues to be increasingly important, even as we manage through difficult economic times.
Technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use and must perform well on a consistent basis in order to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to guests before, during and after their cruise. Moreover,
as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the increasing use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies
to facilitate this growth. To further our customer-centricity, in 2011, we continued to improve our customer experiences online with significant enhancements to brand websites and the launch of mobile-friendly platforms. Active engagement in social
media channels is also an integral part of our marketing strategy and a part of our broader consumer engagement strategy and relationship management platform.

To support our strategic focus on improving revenue yields, during 2011, we launched a number of new capabilities to improve our revenue management analytics and decision support processes. We also
finalized the shipboard rollout of our beverage and spa pre-cruise sales program with all ships now participating which allows guests to purchase beverage packages and spa programs online prior to their sailing. Finally, we continued the execution
of our international growth strategy with the launch of our consumer websites tailored to the Australian and Latin American markets and trade tools in multiple languages.

As part of Royal Caribbean International’s revitalization program, we are incorporating many of the
technological innovations from the Oasis-class ships, including digital signage, enhanced WiFi and e-Mustering. In addition,Splendour of the Seaswill be the first ship to introduce iPad®mobile devices in every stateroom, allowing guests to access daily events and activities, personal itineraries, monitor their onboard spend account, access the
internet and watch movies. We anticipate that the iPad®mobile devices will be rolled out to other ships.
Similarly, Solstice-class technological innovations, including iLounge and Qsine will be incorporated on the Millennium-class ships as part of the Celebrity Cruises vessel revitalization program.

To position ourselves for the future, we have embarked on several multi-year information technology strategic initiatives to ensure that
we can continue to innovate and respond to the ever increasing expectations of our guests, in a scalable and cost effective manner.

Travel
agency support and direct business

Travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. We
believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel agents. To accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with
those of other cruise lines. In addition, our sales teams focus on the unique qualities of each brand and provide support to the travel agency community. Our websiteCruisingpower.comcontinues to be an industry-leading website exclusive to
the travel agency community. Royal Caribbean International continues to enhance its online training certification program, “University of Wow,” and Celebrity Cruises continues to promote “Five Star Academy,” its online travel
agent partner learning suite. In addition, over the past several years, we have completed several key enhancements to simplify the online booking process via our CruiseMatch trade booking tool based on feedback from our travel agent partners.

We have in place a virtual tradeshow platform, providing travel agents the opportunity to attend a Royal Caribbean
International, Celebrity Cruises or Azamara Club Cruises tradeshow event by logging in from their own computer. These events consist of online training sessions, online general sessions with keynote speakers and online tradeshow booths all designed
to educate, motivate and inform travel agents about our brands.







We have customer service representatives that are trained to assist travel agents in
providing a higher level of service, andInsight, the first service tool of its kind in the industry, assists agencies with productivity and enhances customer service. Celebrity Cruises provides sales and marketing support to travel agents
through its program, “The Celebrity Commitment”, whereby every travel agent partner in the United States and Canada has a dedicated sales manager who helps them grow their business. In addition, we currently operate reservation call
centers to support our travel agent community in the United States, Canada, France, Spain, China, Singapore, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Norway, France and the United Kingdom which allow us to provide flexible and extended hours of operations.

We also have certified vacation planners in our call centers located throughout the world offering cruise planning expertise
and personal attention to our guests. We maintain websites that allow guests to plan and book a cruise and customize their reservations for Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises. During 2011, we enhanced our Royal
Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises Spanish language sites in our Latin American markets, which allow for guests from countries in these markets to complete their entire booking process on-line. In addition, in order to support our direct
sales initiative and to process inbound phone reservation requests from all markets, we created a Consumer Outreach department, which provides 24 hour access to certified vacation planners, group vacation planners and customer service agents.

We place a significant focus on building strong relationships with our guests before, during and after their cruise vacation
with the objective of establishing customer engagement and continued loyalty. As part of this focus, we established ongoing social media platforms to increase awareness for both repeat and new guests and we emphasized marketing through our loyalty
programs. As a result, we continue to experience an increase in the use of our internet sites and consumer outreach centers as a source of our overall bookings. In 2011, we also enhanced the Pullmantur website,www.pullmantur.esto
include booking capabilities, which enable guests to plan and book a cruise and customize their reservation. Guests can also book their cruise vacations onboard our ships. We continue to improve our direct outreach programs by enhancing loyalty
benefits offered to repeat guests. In addition, Celebrity Cruises provides dedicated agents for guests with reservations in our premium staterooms, and introduced a mobile application and mobile web site. This free application allows users to view
Celebrity Cruises’ global destinations, review onboard activities, e-mail itineraries of interest and request or place a call or e-mail to customer service directly via the application.

Guest Services

We offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to
guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. We offer our guests the ability to check-in online in order to reduce boarding time during embarkation. Our air/sea
program offers the Choice Air web based tool, which provides guests their choice of flights and the ability to customize flight arrangements by selecting a specific airline, flight and class of service. Choice Air can be accessed and utilized by
both travel agents and guests.

Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises offer rewards to
their guests through their loyalty programs, Crown & Anchor Society, Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage, respectively, to encourage repeat business. Crown & Anchor Society has over 6.0 million members worldwide.
Captain’s Club and Le Club Voyage have 1.7 million members combined worldwide. All loyalty programs recognize loyalty guests by offering exclusive member-only benefits. Members are typically eligible to enroll in these complimentary
programs after one sailing and earn membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits which can be redeemed in future sailings. In addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal
membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. We regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests.

Operations

Cruise Ships and Itineraries

As of December 31, 2011, we operate 39 ships under five cruise brands, with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to
18 nights that call on approximately 460 destinations.Celebrity Reflectionis expected to enter revenue service in the fourth quarter of 2012. In addition, TUI Cruises, our joint venture with TUI AG, operatesMein Schiff IandMein
Schiff II,both of which will offer sailings in Europe and the Caribbean during 2012.







The following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in
2012 under our five cruise brands and their geographic areas of operation based on 2012 itineraries (subject to change). It does not include Pullmantur’sAtlantic Starwhich is currently not in operation and which we are actively trying
to sell. Additionally, in February 2012, we entered into an agreement to bareboat charter our shipOcean Dreamto an unrelated party for a period of six years from the transfer date. The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable
by the unrelated party for an additional four years. We anticipate delivery ofOcean Dreamwill take place in April 2012.





ShipYear ShipEntered or WillEnter
Service1ApproximateBerthsPrimary Areas of Operation

Royal Caribbean International

Allure of the Seas20105,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Oasis of the Seas20095,400Eastern/Western Caribbean

Independence of the Seas20083,600Europe, Eastern/Western Caribbean

Liberty of the Seas20073,600Europe, Short Caribbean

Freedom of the Seas20063,600Eastern/Western Caribbean

Jewel of the Seas20042,100Western Caribbean, Canada/New England, Europe

Mariner of the Seas20033,100Western Caribbean, Europe, Middle East

Serenade of the Seas20032,100Southern Caribbean, Europe, Middle East

Navigator of the Seas20023,100Western Caribbean, Europe

Brilliance of the Seas20022,100Europe, Southern Caribbean

Adventure of the Seas20013,100Southern Caribbean, Europe

Radiance of the Seas20012,100Alaska, Australia/New Zealand/South Pacific

Explorer of the Seas20003,100Eastern/Southern Caribbean, Bermuda

Voyager of the Seas19993,100Western Caribbean, Asia, Australia/New Zealand/South Pacific

Vision of the Seas19982,000Europe, Brazil, Southern Caribbean, Panama Canal

Enchantment of the Seas19972,250Eastern/Western Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Rhapsody of the Seas19972,000Australia/New Zealand, Alaska

Grandeur of the Seas19961,950Europe, Southern Caribbean

Splendour of the Seas19961,800Europe, Brazil

Legend of the Seas19951,800Asia

Majesty of the Seas19922,350Bahamas

Monarch of the Seas19912,350Bahamas

Celebrity Cruises

Celebrity Reflection20123,000Europe, Eastern Caribbean

Celebrity Silhouette20112,850Europe, Middle East, Eastern / Western Caribbean

Celebrity Eclipse20102,850Europe, Southern Caribbean

Celebrity Equinox20092,850Europe, Long Caribbean

Celebrity Solstice20082,850Eastern/Western Caribbean, Europe, Australia/New Zealand

Celebrity Constellation20022,050Western Caribbean, Europe

Celebrity Summit20012,150Southern Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada/New England

Celebrity Infinity20012,150Alaska, Panama Canal, South America

Celebrity Millennium20002,150Western Caribbean, Alaska, Asia

Celebrity Century19951,800Australia/New Zealand/South Pacific, Alaska, Hawaii, Panama Canal

Celebrity Xpedition2200496Galapagos Islands







Azamara Club CruisesAzamara Journey32004700Europe, Caribbean, Asia, South AmericaAzamara Quest42006700Europe, Asia, South America, CaribbeanPullmanturOcean Dream520081,000Western/Southern CaribbeanZenith19921,400Europe, Middle East, BrazilEmpress19901,600Europe, BrazilSovereign19882,300Europe, BrazilCDF Croisières de FranceHorizon619901,350Europe, BrazilTotal95,846



1The year a ship entered or will enter service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the Company, which is the
same as the year the ship was built, unless otherwise noted.

2Celebrity Xpeditionwas built in 2001.

3Azamara Journey(formerlyBlue Dream) was built in 2000.

4Azamara Quest(formerlyBlue Moon) was built in 2000.

5Ocean Dreamwas built in 1981. In February 2012, we entered into an agreement to bareboat charter our shipOcean Dreamto an unrelated
party for a period of six years from the transfer date. The charter agreement provides a renewal option exercisable by the unrelated party for an additional four years. We anticipate delivery ofOcean Dreamwill take place in April 2012.

6Horizonwas built in 1990.Horizonwill be redeployed from Pullmantur to CDF Croisières de France in March 2012.

We have three ships on order, which are being built in Germany by Meyer Werft GmbH. The expected dates
these ships will enter service and their planned number of berths are as follows:



ShipExpected to 
EnterServiceApproximateBerthsCelebrity Cruises—Solstice-class:Celebrity Reflection4th Quarter 20123,000Royal Caribbean International—Project Sunshine:Unnamed3rd Quarter 20144,100Unnamed2nd Quarter 20154,100Total Berths11,200

In addition, in 2011, TUI Cruises entered into a construction agreement to build its first newbuild ship,
scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014. TUI Cruises has an option to construct a second ship of the same class, which will expire on October 31, 2012.

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises.
Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our
brands have increased deployment to South America and Australia during the Northern Hemisphere winter months.







Passengers and Capacity

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see Description of Certain Line Items and Selected Operational and Financial Metrics under Item 7.Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions):



Year Ended December 31,20112010200920082007Passengers Carried4,850,0104,585,9203,970,2784,017,5543,905,384Passenger Cruise Days34,818,33532,251,21728,503,04627,657,57826,594,515Available Passenger Cruise Days (APCD)33,235,50830,911,07327,821,22426,463,63725,155,768Occupancy104.8%104.3%102.5%104.5%105.7%

Cruise Pricing

Our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. Prices vary depending on the destination, cruise length, stateroom
category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. Although we grant credit terms to certain travel agencies and tour operators in select markets outside of the United States, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to
confirm a reservation with the balance due prior to the sailing. During the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net
yields. Historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance. Additionally, we offer air transportation as a service for guests that elect to utilize our transportation program. Our air
transportation program is available in major cities around the world and prices vary by gateway and destination. Generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost. Passenger ticket revenues accounted for 73.3%, 72.7% and 71.4% of
total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

From time to time, we have introduced temporary fuel supplements to
partially offset a portion of fuel costs, which result in an additional fee being charged to the guests. While none of our brands are currently charging fuel supplements, we reserve the right to reinstate our fuel supplements for one or more of our
brands and will continue to monitor our markets and review our position based upon the appropriate facts and circumstances.

Onboard
Activities and Other Revenues

In conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our Royal
Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises guests. We also offer these guests escorted, premium land-tour vacation packages in Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Canadian Rockies, Europe, New Zealand and Latin America







through our cruise-tour operations, Royal Celebrity Tours. Pullmantur offers land-based travel packages to Spanish and European vacation travelers including hotels and flights to Caribbean
resorts and sells land based tour packages to Europe aimed at Latin American guests. Pullmantur also owns a 49% interest in an air business that operates four Boeing 747 aircrafts in support of its cruise and tour operations. In addition, we sell
cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. Onboard and other revenues accounted for 26.7%, 27.3% and 28.6% of total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.

Segment Reporting

(

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 6,300 full-time and 740 part-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations.
We also employed approximately 54,000 shipboard employees. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Based on employee survey results, we believe our employees’
satisfaction level with our organization is strong.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements, earnings and increased value, which are maintained in amounts related to the value of
each ship. The coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the British, Scandinavian, French, United States and other international insurance markets.

We maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships through either the United Kingdom Mutual Steam Ship
Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited, the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited or the Assuranceforeningen SKULD (Gjensidig). Our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to
additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. We are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer.

We maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and
hijacking, on each ship, through a Norwegian war risk insurance organization. This coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. We
also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. Consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our
war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates.

Insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the United States and the United Kingdom.







We do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the
risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. We carry business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations.

All insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. In addition, in certain circumstances, we
either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. Premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. These cycles are
impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. We historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. No assurance can
be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance.

The Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea (1974) and the 1976 Protocol to the Athens Convention are generally applicable to passenger ships. The United
States has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Athens Convention Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to those of our cruises that do not call at a United States port. The International
Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed upon a new Protocol to the Athens Convention on November 1, 2002. The 2002 Protocol, which is not yet in force pending ratification by the requisite number of countries, substantially increases
the level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators. In an attempt to expedite implementation, the European Union adopted the European Union Regulation 392/2009 (“EU Passenger Liability Regulation”) on
the liability of carriers of passengers by sea, which will become effective on December 31, 2012. This regulation incorporates the 2002 Protocol in many ways. We have had discussions with the insurance marketplace and feel that we have
sufficient coverage to meet the level of coverage required under the EU Passenger Liability Regulation.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks related to the Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises, Azamara Club Cruises, Pullmantur
and CDF Croisières de France cruise brands. The registered trademarks include the name “Royal Caribbean International” and its crown and anchor logo, the name “Celebrity Cruises” and its “X” logo, the name
“Azamara Club Cruises” and its logo, the names “Pullmantur Cruises” and “Pullmantur” and their logos, the name “CDF Croisières de France” and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships. We believe
our trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value.

Regulation

Our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions
in which they operate. In addition, our ships are registered in the Bahamas, Malta or in the case ofCelebrity Xpedition, Ecuador. Each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to
international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. Each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. Ships
operating out of United States ports are subject to inspection by the United States Coast Guard for compliance with international treaties and by the United States Public Health Service for sanitary conditions. Our ships are also subject to similar
inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit.

We believe that we are in
material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. Health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to
be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the United States and internationally. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing
compliance costs in the future.

Safety and Security Regulations

Our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea
(“SOLAS”), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features,







materials, construction, life saving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. The SOLAS standards are revised from time to time and the most recent
modifications were phased in through 2010. Compliance with these modified standards did not a have a material effect on our operating costs. SOLAS incorporates the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”), which provides an
international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. The ISM Code is mandatory for passenger vessel operators. All of our operations and ships are regularly audited by national authorities and maintain
the required certificates of compliance with the ISM Code.

Our ships are subject to various security requirements, including
the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (“ISPS Code”), which is part of SOLAS, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which applies to ships that operate in U.S. ports. In order to
satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. The security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry
for our ships in compliance with the ISPS Code and the MTSA.

In July 2010, the U.S. adopted the Cruise Vessel Security and
Safety Act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the United States. This act requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well the establishment of practices for the reporting of
and dealing with allegations of crime. In 2012, the U.S. Coast Guard is expected to issue regulations governing implementation of certain provisions of the act. We already exceed most of the requirements of the act and do not expect any costs that
would be material to us to be required due to these likely regulations.

Environmental Regulations

We are subject to various United States and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under such laws and
regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental
laws and regulations. From time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. We believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will
continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, will likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

Our ships are subject to the International Maritime Organization’s (“IMO”) regulations under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (the “MARPOL
Regulations”), which includes requirements designed to prevent and minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage and air emissions. We have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution
prevention for all of our ships.

On January 1, 2010, a European Union directive regarding the use of low sulfur fuels
for ships became effective. The directive places a 0.1% sulfur content limit on all marine fuels used by such ships while berthed or anchored in European Union ports. Compliance with this directive requires us to use distillate fuels such as marine
gas oil. This has not had a material effect on our fuel and operating costs.

The MARPOL Regulations impose global limitations
on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide. Permitted sulfur content was reduced from 4.5% to 3.5% on January 1, 2012. We do not expect that this required reduction will have a material effect on our fuel and operating
costs. These regulations will also require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be reduced to 0.5% by January 1, 2020, subject to a feasibility review to be completed by IMO no later than 2018. If such a reduced limitation is
implemented worldwide in 2020, our fuel costs could increase significantly.

In addition to the global limitations, the MARPOL
Regulations establish special Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions in these areas. As of July 1, 2010, ships operating in designated ECAs were required to reduce their fuel
sulfur content from 1.5% to 1.0%. Under these regulations, ships operating in ECAs will be required to further reduce their fuel sulfur content to 0.1% beginning on January 1, 2015.

As of the date of this report, both the Baltic Sea and the North Sea/English Channel have been established as ECAs. During 2010, the IMO
accepted and adopted the application by the United States, France and Canada to designate as an







ECA waters within 200 nautical miles of their east, west and gulf coasts, as applicable, as well as the Hawaiian Islands, but excluding certain areas within the Caribbean Basin such as the
Bahamas, the Canadian Arctic, Western Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. This designation will be effective as of August 1, 2012. In addition, in July 2011, the IMO accepted and adopted the application by the United States to designate the waters
surrounding Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands as an ECA. This designation will be effective as of January 2014.

As of the
date hereof, the required sulfur content reductions in the existing ECAs has not had a material impact on our operations and we do not expect the initial required sulfur content reductions in either the United States, French and Canadian ECA or the
Puerto Rico/US Virgin Islands ECA will have a material effect on our fuel and operating costs. However, the additional reduction to 0.1% as of January 1, 2015 could significantly increase our costs after this date based on current capacities,
fuel prices, itineraries and technologies. The cost impact from implementing progressively lower sulfur content requirements after January 1, 2015 is not reasonably determinable given the length of time until such possible implementation and
the applicability of many possible mitigating factors, such as changes in the future supply and demand for fuel, the development of emissions abatement technologies, including new engine designs or exhaust gas treatment systems, the acceptance of
alternative compliance methods, the cost migration effects of equivalent compliance initiatives and new fuel conservation initiatives.

In July 2011, new MARPOL Regulations introduced mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include the utilization of an energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new ships as well as
the establishment of an energy efficient management plan for all ships. The EEDI is a performance-based mechanism that requires a certain minimum energy efficiency in new ships. These regulations will be effective as of January 1, 2013. We do
not anticipate that compliance with these regulations will have a material effect on our operating costs.

We are required to
obtain certificates from the United States Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of water pollution. Pursuant to United States Coast Guard regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees
aggregating $347.7 million as a condition to obtaining the required certificates. The cost of obtaining these guarantees does not have a material effect on our operating costs.

Labor Regulations

The International Labour Organization, an agency of the United Nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labour Convention (the “Convention”).
The Convention, which will be effective one year following ratification by at least 30 countries representing at least 33% of the world gross tonnage, reflects a broad range of standards and conditions to govern all aspects of crew management for
ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect relating to the health, safety, repatriation, entitlements and status of crewmembers and crew recruitment practices. The Convention is expected to be
ratified during 2012, in which case it would become effective in 2013. Our expenses will likely increase following its effectiveness; however, the amount of the increase is not reasonably determinable pending the enactment of legislation to
implement new standards outlined in the Convention by the enacting countries.

Consumer Financial Responsibility
Regulations

We are required to obtain certificates from the United States Federal Maritime Commission relating to our
ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. Pursuant to the United States Federal Maritime Commission regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of
guarantees in the amount of $15.0 million for each of our two U.S. ship-operating companies, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Celebrity Cruises Inc. and a bond in the amount of $15.0 million for one of our U.K. ship operating companies, as a
condition to obtaining the required certificates. In September 2011, the United States Federal Maritime Commission published a proposed rule that would increase the required guarantees to $30.0 million per operator ($90.0 million in the aggregate),
subject to consumer price index based adjustments every two years. This increase, if adopted, will be phased in over a two-year period. The FMC is expected to vote on final passage of the proposed rule in early to mid 2012. We do not anticipate that
compliance with the new rule will have a material effect on our costs.

We are also required by the United Kingdom, Norway,
Finland, and the Baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. In the United







Kingdom we are currently required by the Association of British Travel Agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately £30.4 million. The Norwegian Travel Guarantee Fund
currently requires us to maintain performance bonds of approximately $27.2 million to cover our financial responsibility in Norway, Finland and the Baltics. We are also required to pay to the United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority a non-refundable
levy of £2.50 per guest where we arrange a flight as part of the cruise vacation.

Certain other jurisdictions also
require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs.

Regulations Regarding Protection of Disabled Persons

In 2010, the United States Department of Transportation issued regulations (the “New ADA Regulations”) addressing various issues applicable to passenger vessels under the American with
Disabilities Act (the “ADA”). Part I of the New ADA Regulations, which include required reservation policies for disabled guests and requirements for aids and services to disabled passengers, became effective in January 2011. We are in
compliance with Part I of the New ADA Regulations and did not need to make any material expenditures to comply. Part II, when issued, is expected to address physical accessibility standards. While we believe our vessels have been designed and
outfitted to meet the needs of our disabled guests, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses in response to Part II of the New ADA Regulations.

Taxation of the Company

The following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. In addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or
both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure.

We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business
of operating passenger cruise ships in international transportation. We also own and operate other businesses primarily consisting of the land-tour operation in Alaska and the Pullmantur land-tour and air business.

United States Income Taxation

The following is a discussion of the application of the United States federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Treasury
Department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. All of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change
could affect the accuracy of this discussion.

Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

We and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and in
many cases, depending upon the itineraries of the ships, receive income from sources within the United States. Additionally, our United Kingdom tonnage tax company, owned by us and Celebrity Cruises, Inc., is a ship-operating company that may earn
United States source income and is a company for which an election was filed to be classified as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. Under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain foreign corporations are not
subject to United States federal income or branch profits tax on United States source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships.

A foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the
foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the United States; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is “primarily and regularly traded on
an established securities market” in the United States or another qualifying country such as Norway. In the opinion of our United States tax counsel, Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in
that opinion, we, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and our ship-owning subsidiaries qualify for the benefits of Section 883 because we







and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in Liberia or Malta, which are qualifying countries, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in
the United States or Norway. If, in the future, (1) Liberia or Malta no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify
as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on Section 883 for tax exemption on qualifying income would be subject to United States federal income tax on their United States source
shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto.

We believe that most of our income and the income of our
ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under Section 883. Additionally, income earned through a partnership will qualify as income derived
from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships to the same extent as the income would so qualify if earned directly by the partners. Thus, we believe that United States source income derived from or incidental to the
international operation of a ship or ships earned by the United Kingdom tonnage tax company will qualify for exemption under Section 883 to the same extent as if it were earned directly by the owners of the United Kingdom tonnage tax company.

Regulations under Section 883 list activities that are not considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental
to the international operation of ships including income from the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. To the extent the income from these activities is earned from sources within the United States,
that income will be subject to United States taxation.

Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883 of the Internal
Revenue Code

If we, Celebrity Cruises Inc. or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of
Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to United States income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international
operation of our ships.

Because we and Celebrity Cruises Inc. conduct a trade or business in the United States, we and
Celebrity Cruises Inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) from United States sources. In addition, if any of our earnings and
profits effectively connected with our United States trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our United States trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a “branch profits” tax at
the rate of 30%. We and Celebrity Cruises Inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%.

If Section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its United States source gross transportation income, if any, each year
because it does not have a fixed place of business in the United States and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship.

Other United
States Taxation

Our primary domestic United States operation, the Alaska land-tour operation, is subject to United States
federal income tax. Additionally, we and Celebrity Cruises, Inc. earn United States source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. The tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years
presented.

State Taxation

We, Celebrity Cruises Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various United States state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state’s portion of the United States source
income subject to federal income taxes. Additionally, the state of Alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in Alaska and certain other affiliated companies to Alaska corporate state income taxes and also
imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in Alaska waters. This did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented.







Maltese, Spanish and French Income Tax

Our Pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries, which include the owner-operator of CDF Croisieres de France’s ship, qualify as
licensed shipping organizations in Malta. No Maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization. Instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net
tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. A company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the Registrar-General to enable
it to carry on such activities. Qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a Maltese ship in terms of the Merchant
Shipping Act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith.

Our
Maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal Maltese corporate income tax.

Pullmantur has sales and marketing functions, land-based tour operations and air business in Spain. These activities are subject to Spanish taxation. The tax from these operations is not considered
significant to our operations. CDF Croisieres de France’s French operations are minimal and therefore, its French income taxes are minimal.

United Kingdom Income Tax

We operate thirteen ships under companies which
have elected to be subject to the United Kingdom tonnage tax regime (“U.K. tonnage tax”).

Companies subject to U.K.
tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. Normal United Kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying U.K. tonnage tax
company. The requirements for a company to qualify for the U.K. tonnage tax regime include being subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the United Kingdom, and
fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. Failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which will have a material effect on our results of operations.

Relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. Our United Kingdom
income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the U.K. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to United Kingdom corporate income tax.

Brazilian Income Tax

Pullmantur and our U.K. tonnage tax company charters
certain ships to Brazilian companies for operations in Brazil from November to May. Some of these charters are with unrelated third parties and others are with a Brazilian affiliate. The Brazilian affiliate’s earnings are subject to Brazilian
taxation which is not considered significant. We believe the charter payments made to the U.K. tonnage tax company and to Pullmantur are exempt from Brazilian income tax under Brazilian domestic law.

Other Taxation

We and
certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify for exemption or tonnage tax regimes. The tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented. Our U.K.
tonnage tax company is exempt from some taxation in certain jurisdictions where those companies have business operations under relevant United Kingdom tax treaties.







Website Access to Reports

We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission through our website atwww.rclinvestor.com. The information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference
herein.

Executive Officers of the Company

As of February 29, 2012, our executive officers are:



NameAgePositionRichard D. Fain64Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorAdam M. Goldstein52President and Chief Executive Officer, Royal Caribbean InternationalDaniel J. Hanrahan54President and Chief Executive Officer, Celebrity CruisesGonzalo Chico Barbier51President and Chief Executive Officer, PullmanturLawrence Pimentel60President and Chief Executive Officer, Azamara Club CruisesBrian J. Rice53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerHarri U. Kulovaara59Executive Vice President, MaritimeMichael W. Bayley53Executive Vice President, Operations

Richard D. Fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since
1988. Mr. Fain has been involved in the shipping industry for over 30 years.

Adam M. Goldstein has served as President
of Royal Caribbean International since February 2005 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Goldstein has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including Executive Vice
President, Brand Operations of Royal Caribbean International, Senior Vice President, Total Guest Satisfaction and Senior Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Goldstein served as National Chair of the United States Travel Association (formerly, Travel
Industry Association of America) in 2001.

Daniel J. Hanrahan has served as President of Celebrity Cruises since February 2005
and as its President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2007. Mr. Hanrahan served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Cruises until July 2009. From 1999 until February 2005, Mr. Hanrahan served in a variety of
positions with the Royal Caribbean International brand, including Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing.

Gonzalo Chico
Barbier has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pullmantur since June 2008. From 1995 to June 2008, Mr. Chico served as Executive President of TNT Spain, a division of TNT, a global distribution, logistics and international mail
service company. From 1986 until 1995, Mr. Chico was employed in a variety of positions with Ford Motor Company in Spain and in the United Kingdom, including Pan-European Fleet Business Manager of Ford of Europe, Ltd.

Lawrence Pimentel has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Azamara Club Cruises since July 2009. From 2001 until January
2009, Mr. Pimentel was President, Chief Executive Officer, Director and co-owner of SeaDream Yacht Club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in Miami, Florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the Caribbean and
Mediterranean. From April 1991 to February 2001, Mr. Pimentel was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corp.’s Seabourn Cruise Line and from May 1998 to February 2001, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival
Corp.’s Cunard Line.

Brian J. Rice has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November
2006. Mr. Rice has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1989 in a variety of positions including Executive Vice President, Revenue Performance. In such capacity, Mr. Rice was responsible for revenue management, air/sea, groups,
international operations, decision support, reservations and customer service for both Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises.

Harri U. Kulovaara has served as Executive Vice President, Maritime, since January 2005. Mr. Kulovaara is







responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. Mr. Kulovaara also chairs our Maritime Safety Advisory Board. Mr. Kulovaara has been employed with Royal Caribbean since 1995 in a
variety of positions, including Senior Vice President, Marine Operations, and Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance. Mr. Kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer.

Michael W. Bayley has served as Executive Vice President, Operations since February 2012. In this capacity, he is responsible for the worldwide hotel and marine operations of Royal Caribbean International
as well as land operations for Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Club Cruises. Mr. Bayley has been employed by Royal Caribbean for over 30 years, serving in a number of roles including, most recently, as Executive
Vice President, International from May 2010 until February 2012. Mr. Bayley has also served as Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations for Royal Caribbean International where he oversaw worldwide hotel operations and onboard revenue as well as
Chairman and Managing Director of Island Cruises.

