
10-K
FORM 10K




                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                              WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
                                    ___________
                                                     
                                     FORM 10-K
                                          
                         FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS 
                      PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
(MARK ONE) 
/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                         OR 
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the transition period from ____________ to ____________
                                      
                            Commission file number 1-12993
                        ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

                  MARYLAND                              95-4502084
       (State or other jurisdiction               (IRS Employer I.D. Number)
     of incorporation or organization) 

    135 N. LOS ROBLES AVENUE, SUITE 250
            PASADENA, CALIFORNIA                           91101
  (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (626) 578-0777

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

         TITLE OF EACH CLASS           NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
Common Stock, $.01 par value per share          New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES   X    NO            
                                              -----     -----
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  / /

     The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by non-
affiliates was approximately $266.2 million based on the closing price for
such shares on the New York Stock Exchange on March 27, 1998.

     As of March 27, 1998 the Registrant had 11,404,631 shares of Common Stock
outstanding. 

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

     Part III of this report incorporates information by reference from the
definitive Proxy Statement to be mailed  in connection with the registrant's
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 15, 1998.




                                 INDEX TO FORM 10-K 

                        ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.


                                                                  PAGE REFERENCE

                                        PART I

Item  1.  Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Item  2.  Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Item  3.  Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Item  4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. . . . . . . .  10

                                       PART II

Item  5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Item  6.  Selected Financial Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . . . .  20
Item  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Item  9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20

                                       PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . .  21
Item 11.  Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management . .  21
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . . . . .  21

                                       PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K .  22


                                         i


                                       PART I 

     When used herein, the words "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends"
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, regarding events, conditions and financial trends that may affect the
Company's future plan of operation, business strategy, results of operations and
financial position.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Actual results may
differ materially from those included within the forward-looking statements as a
result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those described below
under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" and the risk factors identified in the Company's
Registration Statement on Form S-11 (No. 333-23545) initially filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 1997.  The Company disclaims any
obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the result of any
revisions to any of the forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

BACKGROUND AND FORMATION.  

     Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. ("Alexandria" and, together with its
subsidiaries, the "Company"), a Maryland corporation, is a real estate
investment trust ("REIT") engaged primarily in the acquisition, management,
expansion and selective development of high quality, strategically located
properties containing office and laboratory space designed and improved for
lease principally to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, diagnostic and personal care
products companies, major scientific research institutions and related
government agencies (collectively, the "Life Science Industry").  Properties
leased to tenants in the Life Science Industry typically consist of suburban
office buildings containing scientific research and development laboratories and
other improvements that are generic to tenants operating in the Life Science
Industry (such properties, "Life Science Facilities"). As of December 31, 1997,
the Company owned 22 Life Science Facilities (the "Properties") and two parcels
of vacant land, aggregating approximately 4.2 acres, adjacent to the Company's
3535 and 3565 General Atomics Court Properties in the Torrey Pines area of San
Diego, California.

     FORMATION.  In connection with the formation of Alexandria in October 1994,
Health Science Properties Holding Corporation ("Holdings"), a Maryland
corporation formed in September 1993 and capitalized in January 1994,
contributed substantially all of its assets and liabilities (other than certain
outstanding unsecured notes) to Alexandria in exchange for all of the then
issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Alexandria, par value $.01 per
share (the "Common Stock").  Holdings was the sole holder of the Common Stock
until June 2, 1997, when Alexandria completed its initial public offering (the
"Offering") of 6,750,000 shares of Common Stock.  On June 26, 1997, Alexandria
issued an additional 1,012,500 shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise
of the over-allotment option granted to the underwriters in connection with the
Offering.  

     THE OFFERING AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS.

     THE OFFERING. Each of the following transactions occurred in connection
     with the Offering:

- -    The 27,500 outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock of Alexandria,
     issued in 1996 in a series of transactions to raise additional equity
     capital, were converted into 1,659,239 shares of Common Stock.

- -    The Company acquired 100% of the membership interests in ARE Acquisitions,
     LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Acquisition LLC"), thereby
     acquiring three of the Properties, for an aggregate purchase price of
     approximately $58.8 million.

- -    The Company repaid approximately $77.7 million of its then-existing
     mortgage indebtedness with a portion of the net proceeds of the Offering 
     and the net proceeds of (i) an $8.5 million mortgage loan on the 
     Property located at 1431 Harbor Bay





     Parkway and (ii) a $6.9 million mortgage loan on the Property located at
     1102 and 1124 Columbia Street.  The Company subsequently repaid the
     mortgage loan on 1102 and 1124 Columbia Street in November 1997.

     ACQUISITIONS. Since December 31, 1997 (through March 27, 1998), the 
Company has acquired 11 additional Life Science Facilities containing an 
aggregate of 927,000 rentable square feet for an aggregate purchase price of 
approximately $110 million and made a $6 million loan secured by real estate 
related to one of these Life Science Facilities.  Of these amounts, $103 
million was funded through draws on the Company's unsecured line of credit, 
approximately $13 million through the assumption of existing debt and the 
remainder with working capital.  The recent acquisitions were in California 
(in the San Diego and San Francisco Bay areas), Seattle, Washington, suburban 
Maryland, Boston/Cambridge, Massachusetts, Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina and 
the New York/New Jersey and suburban Philadelphia areas.  

     STRUCTURE.  The Company is in the process of modifying its existing 
corporate structure to facilitate its operation as an umbrella partnership or 
"UPREIT."  The Company has formed an operating partnership (the "Operating 
Partnership") through which the Company expects to conduct substantially all 
of its operations. The Company believes that the UPREIT structure will 
enhance its acquisition activities by providing an additional source of 
acquisition consideration.  Initially, however, the Company will own all of 
the interests in the Operating Partnership ("OP Units").

BUSINESS AND GROWTH STRATEGY.  

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned 22 Properties containing 
approximately 1.75  million rentable square feet of office and laboratory 
space located in California (in the San Diego and San Francisco Bay areas), 
Seattle, Washington and suburban Washington, D.C. (including Maryland and 
Virginia).  The Company also owned two parcels of vacant land aggregating 
approximately 4.2 acres in San Diego, California.  The Company focuses its 
operations and acquisition activities principally in these markets, as well 
as in certain other markets, including Boston/Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina and the New York/New Jersey and suburban 
Philadelphia areas.  See "--Recent Developments."  The Company's tenant base 
is broad and diverse within the Life Science Industry and reflects the 
Company's focus on regional, national and international tenants with 
substantial financial and operational resources. For a detailed description 
of the Properties and tenants, see "Item 2. Properties."  The Company is led 
by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real estate 
and Life Science industries and is supported by a highly experienced board of 
directors.  

     The Company seeks to maximize growth in funds from operations ("FFO") 
and cash available for distribution to stockholders through effective 
management, operation, acquisition, expansion and selective development of 
Life Science Facilities.  See "Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Funds from Operations" for 
a complete discussion of how the Company computes and views FFO as well as a 
discussion of other measures of cash flow.  In particular, the Company seeks 
to increase FFO and cash available for distribution per share by (i) 
acquiring high quality Life Science Facilities at attractive returns in its 
target markets; (ii) realizing contractual rental rate escalations; (iii) 
retenanting and releasing space within its portfolio at higher rental rates, 
and with minimal tenant improvement costs; (iv) expanding existing Properties 
or converting existing office space to generic laboratory space that can be 
leased at higher rental rates; (v) selectively developing properties on a 
retrofit or build-to-suit basis; and (vi) continuing to implement effective 
cost control measures, including pass-through provisions in tenant leases for 
operating expenses and certain capital expenditures.



     ACQUISITIONS.  The Company seeks to identify and acquire high quality Life
Science Facilities in its target markets.  Critical evaluation of prospective
property acquisitions is an essential component of the Company's acquisition
strategy.  When evaluating acquisition opportunities, the Company assesses a
full range of matters  relating to the properties, including the quality of the
tenants, the condition and capacity of building infrastructure, the quality and
generic characteristics of laboratory facilities and the physical condition of
the shell structure and common area improvements.  Management also considers
opportunities available for leasing vacant space and for retenanting occupied
space. 

     INTERNAL GROWTH.  The Company seeks to achieve internal growth from several
sources.  The Company seeks to (i) include rental rate escalation provisions in
its leases; (ii) acquire undervalued or underperforming properties where it can
improve investment returns through releasing of vacant space and replacement of
existing tenants with new tenants at higher rental rates; (iii) achieve higher
rental rates as existing leases expire; and (iv) expand existing facilities that
are fully leased and/or convert existing office space to higher rent generic
laboratory space.  The Company's ability to negotiate contractual rent
escalations in future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will
depend upon market conditions and demand for Life Science Facilities at the time
such leases are negotiated and such increases are proposed.

     DEVELOPMENT.  The Company intends to emphasize acquisitions over 
development in pursuing its growth objectives.  However, the Company plans to 
pursue selective build-to-suit and retrofit development projects where it 
expects to achieve investment returns that will equal or exceed its returns 
on acquisitions.  The Company generally intends to undertake build-to-suit 
and retrofit projects only if the Company's investment in infrastructure will 
be substantially generic in nature and not tenant specific.

     FINANCING/WORKING CAPITAL.  The Company believes that cash provided by 
operations and its unsecured line of credit will be sufficient to fund its 
working capital requirements.  The Company generally expects to finance 
future acquisitions initially through the Company's unsecured line of credit 
and then to refinance such indebtedness with additional equity or debt 
capital.  The Company also may issue Common Stock, OP Units or interests in 
other subsidiaries as consideration for acquisitions.  See "Item 7. 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a complete discussion of the 
Company's unsecured line of credit and other outstanding indebtedness.  

COMPETITION

     Management believes that the Company is the only publicly traded entity
focusing primarily on the acquisition, management, expansion and selective
development of Life Science Facilities.  However, various entities, including
insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships, developers,
investment companies and other REITs invest in Life Science Facilities and
therefore compete for investment opportunities with the Company.  Many of these
entities have substantially greater financial resources than the Company and may
be able to accept more risk than the Company can prudently manage, including
risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic
proximity of its investments.  Competition from these entities may reduce the
number of suitable investment opportunities offered to the Company or increase
the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. 




GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company and the Properties are subject to various federal, state and
local regulatory requirements, including local building codes, environmental and
other similar regulations.  The Company believes that the Properties are in
substantial compliance with all applicable building code and related
regulations.

     ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Under various federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of
real estate, as well as certain other parties, may be required to investigate
and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product
releases on, under, in or from such property, and may be held liable to a
governmental entity or to third parties for investigation and cleanup costs and
certain damages resulting from such releases.  Such laws and regulations
typically impose responsibility and liability without regard to whether such
person knew of or caused the releases, and the liability under such laws and
regulations has been interpreted to be joint and several, unless the harm is
divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility.  The
cost of investigating and remediating such contamination may be substantial, and
the presence of such contamination, or the failure to properly remediate it, may
adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow
using such property as collateral.  In addition, the owner of a site may be
subject to governmental fines and common law claims by third parties seeking to
recover damages and costs resulting from such contamination.  

     Certain other federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the
management and disposal of asbestos containing materials ("ACMs").  Such laws
and regulations may impose liability for the release of ACMs and may provide for
third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of such property for
personal injury associated with ACMs.  In connection with the ownership and
operation of its properties, the Company may be potentially liable for such
costs.  ACMs have been detected at certain of the Properties, but are not
expected to result in material environmental costs or liabilities to the
Company.  Federal, state and local laws and regulations also require the removal
or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate the discharge of
storm water, wastewater and any water pollutants, the emission of air
pollutants, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous or toxic
chemicals, substances or wastes, and workplace health and safety.  
 
     Life Science Industry tenants, including certain of the Company's tenants,
engage in various research and development activities involving the controlled
use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological and radioactive compounds. 
Although the Company believes that the tenants' activities involving such
materials comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations,
the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely
eliminated.  In the event of such contamination or injury, the Company could be
held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed the
Company's resources and its environmental remediation coverage. 

     All of the Properties have been, and it is contemplated that all future
acquisitions will be, subjected to a Phase I or similar environmental assessment
(which generally includes a site inspection, interviews and a records review,
but no subsurface sampling).  These assessments and certain follow-up
investigations (including, as appropriate, asbestos, radon and lead surveys,
additional public records review, subsurface sampling and other testing) of the
Properties have not revealed any environmental liability that the Company
believes would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
results of operations.  Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on the
Properties have not revealed, or that the assessments on future acquisitions
will not reveal, all environmental liabilities and that there may be material
environmental liabilities of which the Company is unaware.  

     The Company believes that the Properties currently are in compliance in all
material respects with applicable environmental laws. 

     AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.  Under the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990 (the "ADA"), places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities
are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by
disabled persons.  Although management of the Company believes that the
Properties are substantially in compliance with the present requirements of the
ADA, the Company may incur additional costs in connection with such




compliance in the future.  In addition, a number of additional federal, state 
and local laws and regulations exist that may require modifications to the 
Company's properties, or affect certain future renovations thereof, with respect
to access by disabled persons.  Non-compliance with the ADA could result in the
imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants, and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature.  Under certain of the 
Company's leases, the tenant is responsible for ensuring that the property 
complies with all laws and regulations, including the ADA.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company may be required to make substantial capital expenditures 
to comply with this law.  In addition, provisions of the ADA may impose 
limitations or restrictions on the completion of certain renovations and thus 
may limit the overall returns on the Company's investments.  

FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND OPERATIONS.  

     The Company currently is involved only in the real estate industry 
segment within the United States; the Company has no foreign operations.  
Accordingly, all financial statements contained herein relate to such 
industry segment.  See "Item 2. Properties" and "Item 8. Financial Statements 
and Supplementary Data" for detailed financial information regarding the 
Company's business.

EMPLOYEES 

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 18 full-time employees. 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. 

GENERAL.

     The Properties range in size from approximately 30,000 to 250,000 square
feet, are built to accommodate single or multiple tenants and are generally one
or two story concrete tilt-up or block and steel frame structures.  The
exteriors typically resemble traditional suburban office properties, but
interior infrastructures are designed to accommodate the needs of Life Science
Industry tenants.  Such improvements typically are generic to Life Science
Industry tenants rather than specific to a particular tenant.  As a result,
management believes that the improvements have long-term value and utility and
are readily usable by a wide range of Life Science Industry tenants.  Generic
infrastructure improvements for each Property include:  reinforced concrete
floors, upgraded roof loading capacity and increased floor to ceiling heights;
heavy-duty HVAC systems and advanced environmental control technology;
significantly upgraded electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure; and
laboratory benches.  

     The Company owns fee simple title in each of the Properties, except with
respect to 1311, 1401 and 1431 Harbor Bay Parkway, in which the Company owns a
commercial condominium interest, together with an undivided interest in the
common areas of the project in which the Property is a part.

     Leases in the Company's multi-tenant buildings typically have terms of 
three to seven years, while the single-tenant building leases typically have 
terms of 10 to 20 years.  As of December 31, 1997, approximately 76% of the 
Company's leases (on a square footage basis) were triple net leases, 
requiring tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes and insurance, 
common area and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in 
addition to base rent.   In addition, approximately 19% of the Company's 
leases (on a square footage basis) required the tenants to pay a majority of 
operating expenses. The remaining leases were gross leases, pursuant to which 
tenants generally pay for substantially all real estate taxes and insurance, 
common area and other operating expenses above those for an established base 
year.  Approximately 64% of the Company's leases (on a square footage basis) 
contained effective annual rent escalations that are either fixed (ranging 
from 2.5% to 4.0%) or indexed based on a consumer price index or other index. 
In addition, approximately 77% of the Company's leases (on a square footage 
basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures (such as 
HVAC systems maintenance and/or replacement, roof replacement and parking 
lot resurfacing), which the Company believes would typically be borne by the 
landlord in traditional office leases. The leases also typically give the 
Company the right to review and approve tenant alterations to the property.  
Generally, tenant-installed improvements remain the property of the Company 
after termination of the lease.  However, the Company is permitted under the 
terms of most of its leases to require that the tenant remove such 
improvements and restore the premises to their original condition.  As of 
December 31, 1997, the Company had 42 leases with a total of 35 tenants, and 
12 of the Properties were single-tenant properties. 



     As of December 31, 1997, the Company managed 21 of the Properties, and the
remaining Property was managed by a major tenant at such Property.  All material
decisions with respect to all of the Properties are made by the Company.  

     The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
Properties as of December 31, 1997:



______________

  ** Gross revenues from the Property for the year ended December 31, 1997 
     represent in excess of 10% of the aggregate gross revenues of the 
     Company for such period.
  +  Book value of the Property represents in excess of 10% of the Company's 
     total assets as of December 31, 1997. 
 (1) Includes year in which construction was completed and, where applicable, 
     year of most recent major renovation.
 (2) Based on all leases at the respective Property in effect as of 
     December 31, 1997.
 (3) Annualized Base Rent means the annualized fixed base rental amount in 
     effect as of December 31, 1997 (using rental revenue computed on a 
     straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP) paid by tenants under the
     terms of their leases.  This amount, divided by the rentable square feet 
     leased at the Property as of December 31, 1997, is the Annualized Base
     Rent per Leased Square Foot.
 (4) Annualized Net Effective Rent is the Annualized Base Rent in effect as 
     of December 31, 1997, less (for gross leases) real estate taxes and 
     insurance, common area and other operating expenses and (for all leases) 
     amortized tenant improvements and leasing commissions.  This amount, 
     divided by the rentable square feet leased at the Property as of 
     December 31, 1997, is the Annualized Net Effective Rent per Leased 
     Square Foot.
 (5) The R.W. Johnson Research Institute is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
     Johnson & Johnson.
 (6) Syntro Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Schering-Plough 
     Corporation
 (7) Gillette Capital Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of The 
     Gillette Company, the guarantor of the lessee's obligations under the 
     lease.
 (8) Genetic Therapy, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Novartis AG.
 (9) As of December 31, 1997, Gene Logic, Inc. was converting office space to 
     laboratory space at this Property and expected to take occupancy upon 
     completion in March 1998.
(10) Shire Pharmaceuticals, PLC subleases its space from Quest Diagnostics, 
     Inc.
(11) Weighted Average based on a percentage of aggregate leased square feet.





LOCATION AND TYPE OF SPACE

     The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, the gross 
revenues and type of space within the Properties by rentable square footage 
in each of the Company's existing markets.  



- -----------------

(1)  Annualized Base Rent means the annualized fixed base rental amount in 
effect as of December 31, 1997 (using rental revenues computed on a 
straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP) paid by tenants under the terms 
of their leases. 

TENANTS

     The Properties are leased principally to tenants engaged in a variety of 
activities in the Life Science Industry.  The following table sets forth 
information regarding the Company's leases with its 20 largest tenants based 
upon Annualized Base Rent as of December 31, 1997.  




                                             20 LARGEST TENANTS






____________

(1)  Annualized Base Rent means the annualized fixed base rental amount in
     effect as of December 31, 1997 (using rental revenue computed on a
     straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP) paid by tenants under the
     terms of their leases. 
(2)  Annualized Net Effective Rent is the Annualized Base Rent in effect as of
     December 31, 1997 (using rental revenue computed on a straight-line basis
     in accordance with GAAP), less (for gross leases) real estate taxes and 
     insurance, common area and other operating expenses and (for all leases) 
     amortized tenant improvements and leasing commissions.  
(3)  Of the 131,554 rentable square feet leased to Fred Hutchinson Cancer
     Research Center, leases with respect to 61,465 square feet, 28,466 square
     feet and 41,623 square feet are subject to expiration in 1998, 1999 and
     2004, respectively.  Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center has the right
     to terminate the leases at any time after November 30, 1999, upon 12 months
     prior written notice.
(4)  Of the 105,000 rentable square feet at 1413 Research Boulevard, leases with
     respect to 30,000 square feet are subject to expiration in 1999 and leases
     with respect to 75,000 rentable square feet are subject to expiration in
     2001.  
(5)  In addition to the base rent shown, MedImmune, Inc. pays $322,000 per year
     in reimbursements for improvements installed by the prior owner of the
     property.  These payments, which are accounted for as tenant recovery
     revenue, continue through the term of the lease.  The terms of the lease
     with MedImmune allow it to terminate such lease at various dates during the
     lease upon six to 12 months notice and the payment of a termination penalty
     determined based on the date of the termination.  In the event of such
     early termination, the remaining amount due over the term of the lease for
     improvements as described above must be paid in full.  
(6)  Gillette Capital Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Gillette 
     Company, the guarantor of the lessee's obligations under the lease.
(7)  Shire Pharmaceuticals, PLC subleases its space at 1550 East Gude Drive from
     Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
(8)  Weighted Average based on percentage of aggregate leased square feet.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

     To the Company's knowledge, no litigation is pending against the Company,
other than routine actions and administrative proceedings, substantially all of
which are expected to be covered by liability insurance or which, in the
aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders in the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.














                                    PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
        MATTERS.

     The Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") 
on May 28, 1997 under the symbol "ARE."  On March 27, 1998, the last reported 
sales price per share of Common Stock on the NYSE was $31 5/8, and there were 
approximately 168 holders of record of the Common Stock (excluding beneficial 
owners whose shares are held in the name of CEDE & Co.).  The following table 
sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of the Common 
Stock reported on the NYSE and the distributions paid by Alexandria with 
respect to each such period.


____________

(1)  Period commencing on date Common Stock began trading on the NYSE and ending
     on March 27, 1998.  Prior to the Offering and the 1,765.923 to 1 stock
     split in connection therewith, Alexandria paid the following dividends on
     its Common Stock during 1996 and 1997:  (1)  March 26, 1996, distribution
     of Warrants, pro rata, to purchase 117,362 shares of common stock of Corixa
     Corporation; (2) September 30, 1996, $183.30 per share; (3) February 3,
     1997, $1,549.82 per share; (4) March 31, 1997, $750.01 per share; and (5)
     June 5, 1997, $475.00 per share.
(2)  Alexandria paid a distribution of $0.1275 per share of Common Stock on
     July 18, 1997 for the period May 28, 1997 through June 30, 1997, which is
     approximately equivalent to a quarterly distribution of $0.40 per share for
     the full calendar quarter.
(3)  On February 26, 1998, the Board of Directors of Alexandria authorized 
     the payment of a distribution of $0.40 per share of Common Stock for the 
     quarter ending March 31, 1998 to be paid on April 17, 1998 to holders of 
     record as of the close of business on April 7, 1998.

     Future distributions by Alexandria will be determined by the Board of 
Directors and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including actual 
cash available for distribution, the Company's financial condition and 
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT 
provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems 
relevant.  To maintain its qualification as a REIT, Alexandria must make 
annual distributions to stockholders of at least 95% of its taxable income, 
determined without regard to deductions for dividends paid and by excluding 
any net capital gains.  Under certain circumstances, Alexandria may be 
required to make distributions in excess of cash flow available for 
distribution to meet such distribution requirements.  In such case, the 
Company may borrow funds or may raise funds through the issuance of 
additional debt or equity capital.  There can be no assurance that any such 
distributions will be made by Alexandria.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 

     The following table should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.





______________

(1)  Pro forma shares of Common Stock outstanding for the years ended December
     31, 1997 and 1996 include all shares outstanding after giving effect to the
     Offering, weighted for the period beginning from the date of the Offering,
     conversion of all series of preferred stock, the 1,765.923 to 1 stock
     split, the issuance of the stock grants and exercise of substitute stock
     options.  Pro forma restated shares of Common Stock outstanding for the
     periods ended December 31, 1995 and 1994 include shares outstanding after
     giving effect to the 1,765.923 to 1 stock split.
(2)  Represents a $353,000 special bonus paid to an officer of the Company in
     connection with the Offering.
(3)  Represents an accrual for $4,239,000 of non-recurring, non-cash
     compensation expense relating to the issuance of stock options and stock
     grants. In connection with the Offering, the holders of options previously
     granted by Holdings under its 1994 stock option plans received options to
     purchase shares of Common Stock of the Company in substitution therefor.
     These substitute options were exercised in connection with the Offering.
(4)  This adjustment relates solely to the non-cash accrual of a one-time 
     post-retirement benefit for an officer of the Company.
(5)  In connection with the Offering, the Company acquired the membership
     interests in the Acquisition LLC for $58,844,000, which exceeded the
     purchase price paid by the Acquisition LLC for the properties by
     $6,973,000. This difference was accounted for as a financing cost.
(6)  Of this amount, $2,147,000 represents the write-off of costs associated
     with debt paid off in connection with the Offering, and $148,000 represents
     the write-off of costs associated with debt paid off in November 1997.
(7)  The Company computes funds from operations ("FFO") in accordance with
     standards established by the Board of Governors of NAREIT in its March 1995
     White Paper ("White Paper").  The White Paper defines FFO as net income
     (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from
     debt restructuring, sales of property and unusual items, plus real estate
     related depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for
     unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. For a more detailed
     discussion of FFO, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
     Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Funds from Operations."


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS. 

     The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW

     Since its formation in October 1994, the Company has devoted substantially
all of its resources to the acquisition and management of high quality,
strategically located Life Science Facilities leased principally to tenants in
the Life Science Industry in its target markets. 

     In June 1997, the Company completed an initial public offering (the 
"Offering") of its common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common 
Stock"). In connection with the Offering (and related exercise of the 
underwriters' over-allotment option), 7,762,500 shares of Common Stock were 
issued.  Aggregate proceeds from the Offering (including proceeds from the 
exercise of the over-allotment option), net of underwriting discounts and 
commissions, advisory fees and offering costs, were approximately $138.9 
million.

     The Company receives income from rental revenue (including tenant 
recoveries) from its properties.  Of the 22 properties owned by the Company 
as of December 31, 1997 (the "Properties"), four were acquired in calendar 
year 1994, eight in 1996 (the "1996 Acquired Properties"), three in 1997 in 
connection with the Offering and seven in 1997 subsequent to the Offering 
(together, the "1997 Acquired Properties").  As a result of the Company's 
acquisition activities, the financial data shows significant increases in 
total revenues and expenses for 1997 compared to 1996, largely attributable 
to the 1997 Acquired Properties, and the recognition of a full year of 
revenues for the 1996 Acquired Properties.  For the foregoing reasons, and 
due to the effects of the Offering and related transactions, the Company does 
not believe its year-to-year historical financial data are comparable.  
Accordingly, the Company also has included pro forma financial information, 
which gives effect to the Offering and the acquisitions made in 1996 and 1997 
in connection therewith.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 

     Rental revenue increased by $12.7 million, or 98%, to $25.6 million for 
1997 compared to $12.9 million for 1996.  The increase resulted primarily 
from the 1996 Acquired Properties being owned for a full period and the 
addition of the 1997 Acquired Properties, which together contributed an 
additional $12.5 million of rental revenue in 1997.  Rental revenue from the 
Properties owned since January 1, 1996 (the "Same Properties") increased by 
$180,000, or 2%. This increase resulted primarily from the conversion of 
19,310 square feet of storage space to higher rent laboratory space at 10933 
North Torrey Pines Road in October 1996.

     Tenant recoveries increased by $4.2 million, or 100%, to $8.4 million 
for 1997 compared to $4.2 million for 1996.  The increase resulted primarily 
from the 1996 Acquired Properties being owned for a full period and the 
addition of the 1997 Acquired Properties, which together contributed an 
additional $3.8 million of tenant recoveries.  Tenant recoveries for the Same 
Properties increased by $416,000, or 19%, due to an increase in operating 
expenses (particularly utilities) being passed through to the tenants.  

     Other income increased by $273,000, or 48%, to $836,000 for 1997 
compared to $563,000 for 1996, resulting from an increase in interest income 
due to the investment of excess funds from the Offering and increased amounts 
in capital improvement reserve accounts.

     Rental operating expenses increased by $4.4 million, or 100%, to $8.8 
million for 1997 compared to $4.4 million for 1996.  The increase resulted 
almost entirely from the 1996 Acquired Properties being owned for a full 
period and the addition of the 1997 Acquired Properties, which together 
contributed an additional $4.0 million in operating expenses.  Operating 
expenses for the Same Properties increased by $401,000, or 17%, primarily due 
to increased utility expenses (due to greater usage) which were passed 
through to the tenants.

     General and administrative expenses increased by $504,000, or 26%, to 
$2.5 million for 1997 compared to $2.0 million for 1996 due to the Company's 
larger scope of operations and increased costs incurred as a result of being 
a public company.

     Special bonus of $353,000 in 1997 reflects a bonus paid to an officer of 
the Company in connection with the Offering.  Post retirement benefit expense 
of $632,000 and $438,000 in 1997 and 1996, respectively, reflects an 
adjustment for the non-cash accrual associated with a one-time post 
retirement benefit for an officer of the Company.  Stock compensation expense 
of $4.2 million was recorded in 1997 for the non-recurring, non-cash expense 
related to the issuance of stock grants and options to officers, directors 
and certain employees of the Company principally in connection with the 
Offering.

     Interest expense increased by $716,000, or 11%, to $7.0 million for 1997 
compared to $6.3 million for 1996.  The increase resulted from indebtedness 
incurred to acquire the 1996 Acquired Properties, offset by a reduction in 
ongoing interest expense due to the payoff of $72.7 million in secured notes 
payable in June 1997 with proceeds from the Offering.

     Acquisition LLC financing costs of $7.0 million in 1997 represent the 
portion of the purchase price of the membership interests in ARE 
Acquisitions, LLC (the "Acquisition LLC")  in excess of the cost incurred by 
the Acquisition LLC to acquire its three Life Science Facilities.

     Write-off of unamortized loan costs in 1997 represents the write-off of 
$2.1 million in loan costs associated with $72.7 million of secured notes 
repaid with proceeds of the Offering and $148,000 in loan costs associated 
with the payoff of debt in November 1997.




     Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.5 million, or 102%, to 
$4.9 million for 1997 compared to $2.4 million for 1996.  The increase 
resulted primarily from depreciation associated with the 1996 Acquired 
Properties being owned for a full period and the addition of the 1997 
Acquired Properties.

     As a result of the foregoing, the net loss was $2.8 million for 1997 
compared to net income of $2.2 million for 1996.

COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

     Rental revenue increased by $4.9 million, or 61%, to $12.9 million for 
the year ended December 31, 1996 compared to $8.0 million for the year ended 
December 31, 1995.  The increase resulted primarily from the 1996 Acquired 
Properties, which contributed an additional $4.6 million of rental revenue in 
1996.  Rental revenue from the Properties owned since January 1, 1995 (the 
"1995 Same Properties") increased by $370,000, or 5%.  Of this increase, 
$320,000 resulted from a full year of rental income in 1996 resulting from 
the increase in occupancy at 11099 North Torrey Pines Road during 1995.

     Tenant recoveries increased by $2.5 million, or 147%, to $4.2 million 
for 1996 compared to $1.7 million for 1995.  The increase resulted primarily 
from the addition of the 1996 Acquired Properties, which contributed an 
additional $2.1 million of tenant recoveries.  Tenant recoveries from the 
1995 Same Properties increased by $395,000, or 23%.  Of this increase, 
$300,000 resulted from a new lease at 11099 North Torrey Pines Road.  The 
remaining increase resulted primarily from a new energy management system at 
10933 North Torrey Pines Road that allows the Company to more accurately 
measure and recover from its tenants certain costs of utility usage.

     Other income increased by $359,000, or 176%, to $563,000 for 1996 
compared to $204,000 for 1995.  The increase resulted primarily from the 
addition of the 1996 Acquired Properties, which contributed an additional 
$337,000 of other income.

     Rental operating expenses increased by $2.2 million, or 100%, to $4.4 
million for 1996 compared to $2.2 million for 1995.  The increase resulted 
primarily from the addition of the 1996 Acquired Properties, which 
contributed an additional $2.0 million of rental operating expenses.  Rental 
operating expenses from the 1995 Same Properties increased by $162,000, or 
7%, primarily as a result of an increase in expenses at 10933 North Torrey 
Pines Road.

     General and administrative expenses increased by $364,000, or 23%, to 
$2.0 million for 1996 compared to $1.6 million for 1995.  The increase 
resulted primarily from additional professional fees incurred during 1996.

     Post-retirement benefit expense in 1996 represents the non-cash accrual 
associated with a one-time post-retirement benefit for an officer of the 
Company.

     Interest expense increased by $2.8 million, or 80%, to $6.3 million for 
1996 compared to $3.5 million for 1995.  The increase resulted primarily from 
indebtedness incurred to acquire the 1996 Acquired Properties, which 
contributed an additional $2.3 million of interest expense, and debt 
outstanding under the Company's then-existing unsecured line of credit, which 
was repaid in July 1996.

     Depreciation and amortization increased by $737,000, or 44%, to $2.4 
million for 1996 compared to $1.7 million for 1995.  The increase resulted 
primarily from depreciation associated with the 1996 Acquired Properties.

     As a result of the foregoing, net income increased by $1.4 million, or 
184%, to $2.2 million for 1996 compared to $761,000 for 1995.






LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

THE OFFERING AND SECURED DEBT

     The Company completed the Offering in June 1997.  Aggregate proceeds of 
the Offering (including proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment 
option), net of underwriting discounts and commissions, advisory fees, and 
offering costs, were approximately $138.9 million. The Company used such net 
proceeds, as well as $15.4 million in proceeds from two new mortgage loans, 
to repay outstanding debt of approximately $77.7 million.  In addition, in 
November 1997, the Company paid off $6.7 million of secured debt with funds 
from its unsecured line of credit obtained in connection with the Offering.  
Total secured debt as of December 31, 1997 included the following:



UNSECURED LINE OF CREDIT

     In connection with the Offering, the Company obtained an unsecured line 
of credit providing for borrowings of up to $150 million, consisting of a 
$100 million activated portion and a $50 million portion that may be 
activated as needed at the Company's discretion (upon payment of an 
activation fee) provided that no default exists thereunder.  The line of 
credit provides for borrowings bearing interest at a floating rate based on 
the Company's election of either a LIBOR based rate or the higher of the 
bank's reference rate and the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%.  For each LIBOR 
based advance, the Company must elect to fix the rate for a one, two, three 
or six month period.

     The line of credit contains financial covenants, including, among other 
things, maintenance of minimum market net worth, a total liabilities to gross 
asset value ratio, and a fixed charge coverage ratio (all as defined).  The 
Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 1997.  
In addition, the terms of the line of credit restrict, among other things, 
certain investments, indebtedness, distributions and mergers.  Borrowings 
under the line of credit are limited to an amount based on a pool of 
unencumbered assets. Accordingly, as the Company acquires additional 
unencumbered properties, borrowings available under the line of credit will 
increase.  As of December 31, 1997, borrowings under the line of credit were 
limited to approximately $103 million, and $23 million was outstanding 
(leaving $80 million available), at a weighted average rate of interest of 
6.9%.

     The line of credit expires on May 31, 2000 and provides for annual 
extensions (provided there is no default) for two additional one-year periods 
upon notice by the Company and consent of the participating banks.  In 
addition, at the Company's election, the line of credit may be converted at 
any time to a term loan with principal installments over two years from the 
date of such conversion.

RESTRICTED CASH

     As of December 31, 1997, approximately $3.4 million had been set aside 
in a restricted cash account to complete the upgrade of laboratory space (as 
well as certain related improvements to the property) at 1102/1124 Columbia 
Street pursuant to an agreement between the Company and a tenant.  The 
Company also holds approximately $758,000 in security deposit reserve 
accounts based on the terms of certain lease agreements.




LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS

     Although cash from operations required to fund interest expense has 
decreased substantially as a result of the Company's reduction in overall 
debt following the Offering, such reduction has been offset by an increased 
requirement to use cash from operations to meet distribution requirements to 
maintain the Company's REIT status.  The Company expects to make 
distributions from cash available for distribution, which is expected to 
exceed cash historically available for distribution as a result of the 
reduction in debt described above, as well as the addition of the 1996 and 
1997 Acquired Properties.  Cash that accumulates on a short-term basis will 
be used to reduce outstanding balances under the Company's unsecured line of 
credit or will be invested by the Company primarily in interest-bearing 
accounts and other short-term, interest-bearing securities that are 
consistent with the Company's qualification for taxation as a REIT.  The 
Company also believes that net cash provided by operations will be sufficient 
to fund its recurring non-revenue enhancing capital expenditures, tenant 
improvements and leasing commissions.

     The Company expects to meet certain long-term liquidity requirements, 
such as property acquisitions, scheduled debt maturities, renovations, 
expansions and other non-recurring capital improvements, through long-term 
secured and unsecured indebtedness, including borrowings under the line of 
credit, and the issuance of additional debt and/or equity securities.

EXPOSURE TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES

     In connection with the acquisition of all of the Properties, the Company 
has obtained Phase I environmental assessments to ascertain the existence of 
any environmental liabilities or other issues.  The Phase I environmental 
assessments of the Properties have not revealed any environmental liabilities 
that the Company believes would have a material adverse effect on the 
Company's financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole, nor 
is the Company aware of any such material environmental liabilities.

HISTORICAL CASH FLOWS

     Net cash provided by operating activities for 1997 increased by $5.5 
million to $3.9 million compared to net cash used by operating activities of 
$(1.6) million for 1996.  The increase resulted primarily from operating cash 
flows from the addition of the 1996 Acquired Properties and the 1997 Acquired 
Properties.

     Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $7.3 million to 
$(87.6) million for 1997 compared to net cash used in investing activities of 
$(94.9) million for 1996.  This use of cash related primarily to  costs 
associated with the acquisition of the 1997 Acquired Properties.

     Net cash provided by financing activities decreased by $13.2 million to 
$84.1 million for 1997 compared to $97.3 million for 1996.  The decrease was 
impacted by $85.8 million of principal reductions in debt, retired 
principally with proceeds from the Offering, offset by $138.9 million in net 
proceeds from the Offering, $15.4 million in proceeds from secured debt, and 
$25.5 million in proceeds from unsecured lines of credit.  In addition, the 
Company paid dividends on the Common Stock of $8.8 million and dividends on 
preferred stock of $1.1 million during 1997.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES, TENANT IMPROVEMENTS AND LEASING COSTS

     The following table sets forth total and weighted average per square 
foot capital expenditures (excluding those expenditures which are recoverable 
from tenants or are revenue-enhancing) and tenant improvements and leasing 
costs for the period from October 1994 (inception of operations) to December 
31, 1994, and for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996, and 1997, 
attributable to leases that commenced at the Properties after acquisition by 
the Company.







     Capital expenditures may fluctuate in any given period subject to the 
nature, extent, and timing of improvements required and to the extent they 
are recoverable from tenants.  The Company maintains an active preventive 
maintenance program in order to minimize required capital improvements.  

     Tenant improvements and leasing costs also may fluctuate in any given 
year depending upon factors such as the timing and extent of vacancies, the 
type of lease (renewal or replacement tenant), the involvement of external 
leasing agents and overall competitive market conditions.

INFLATION

     As of December 31, 1997, approximately 76% of the Company's leases (on a 
square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring tenants to pay 
substantially all real estate taxes and insurance, common area and other 
operating expenses (including increases thereto).  In addition, approximately 
19% of the Company's leases (on a square footage basis) required the tenants 
to pay a majority of operating expenses.  In addition, approximately 64% of 
the Company's leases (on a square footage basis) contain effective annual 
rent escalations that are either fixed (ranging from 2.5% to 4.0%) or indexed 
based on the consumer price index or other index.  Accordingly, the Company 
does not believe that its earnings or cash flow are subject to any 
significant risk of inflation.  An increase in inflation, however, could 
result in an increase in the Company's variable rate borrowing cost, 
including borrowings under the unsecured line of credit.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000

     The Company has evaluated the significance of the change from the year 
1999 to the year 2000 on its existing computer system and has taken steps to 
ensure that its computer system will not be adversely affected thereby. The 
financial impact of steps taken to accommodate the change for the year 2000 
is not anticipated to be material.  The Company relies in part on the 
computer systems of its vendors and other companies.  If any such company 
failed to become year 2000 compliant, the Company could be adversely affected 
thereby. The Company has surveyed several of its larger vendors, and all have 
responded that they either are currently year 2000 compliant, or are actively 
taking steps to become year 2000 compliant.



PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Due to the impact of the Offering and related transactions and the 
acquisitions by the Company in 1996 and 1997, the historical results of 
operations are not indicative of the Company's future results of operations. 
The following pro forma condensed consolidated financial information presents 
the results of operations of the Company as if the Offering (including the 
exercise of the over-allotment option) and related transactions occurred on 
January 1, 1996.  Pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 1997 do 
not include the operations of two of the Properties (14225 Newbrook Drive and 
1330 Piccard Drive) for the period prior to their acquisition by the 
Acquisition LLC (on January 13, 1997 and January 15, 1997, respectively).  
These Properties were owner-occupied prior to purchase and, as a result, 
there were no historical operating results for these Properties as rental 
properties.  The adjusted pro forma financial information presented below 
assumes that the new leases entered into with the sellers of such Properties 
were in effect for the entire period presented.  The pro forma and adjusted 
pro forma financial information presented below is based upon historical 
information and various assumptions and does not purport to present the 
actual results that would have occurred had the Offering and related 
transactions occurred on January 1, 1996, nor to project the Company's 
results of operations for any future period.

                          CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED PRO FORMA
                               FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                                    (UNAUDITED)


FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

     Management believes that funds from operations ("FFO") is helpful to 
investors as a measure of the performance of an equity REIT because, along 
with cash flows from operating activities, financing activities and investing 
activities, it provides investors with an understanding of the ability of the 
Company to incur and service debt, to make capital expenditures and to make 
distributions.  The Company computes FFO in accordance with standards 
established by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real 
Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") in its March 1995 White Paper (the "White 
Paper"), which may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized 
by other equity REITs, and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other 
REITs. Further, FFO does not represent 



amounts available for management's discretionary use because of needed 
capital replacement or expansion, debt service obligations, or other 
commitments and uncertainties.  The White Paper defines FFO as net income 
(loss) (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principals 
("GAAP")), excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring, sales of 
property and unusual items, plus real estate related depreciation and 
amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint 
ventures.  FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income 
(determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of the Company's 
financial performance or to cash flows from operating activities (determined 
in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is it 
indicative of funds available to fund the Company's cash needs, including its 
ability to make distributions.  (See "-Historical Cash Flows" for information 
regarding these measures of cash flow).

     The following tables present the Company's FFO for the year ended 1997 
on a historical, pro forma and adjusted pro forma basis and for the years 
ended 1996 and 1995 on a historical basis.  The adjusted pro forma 
information for the year ended December 31, 1997 assumes that leases entered 
into with sellers of previously owner-occupied properties were in effect for 
the entire period presented:



ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     Not applicable.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 

     The financial statements and supplementary data required by Regulation S-X
are included in this Report on Form 10-K commencing on page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

     None. 




                                   PART III 

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. 

     The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement to be mailed in connection with its annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 15, 1998.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 

     The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement to be mailed in connection with its annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 15, 1998.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT. 

     The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement to be mailed in connection with its annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 15, 1998.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

     The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement to be mailed in connection with its annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on May 15, 1998.











                                     PART IV 

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

     (A)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

          The following consolidated financial information is included as a
separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:



     (B)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

          On December 2, 1997, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K relating
to the acquisition of certain real property.  On January 28, 1998, the Company
filed the required financial statements thereto by amendment on Form 8-K/A.

     (C)  EXHIBITS.






___________

+    Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
     Form S-11 (No. 333-23545), declared effective by the Commission on May 27,
++   Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended June 30, 1997, filed with the Commission on August 14,
+++  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, filed with the Commission on
     November 14, 1997 








                                     SIGNATURES 

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

                              ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.


Dated: March 30, 1998         By:         /s/ Joel S. Marcus      
                                 ----------------------------------
                                           Joel S. Marcus
                                       Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX





______________

+    Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
     Form S-11 (No. 333-23545), declared effective by the Commission on May 27,
++   Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended June 30, 1997, filed with the Commission on August 14,
+++  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, filed with the Commission on
     November 14, 1997












                        Report of Independent Auditors

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alexandria 
Real Estate Equities, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 
31, 1997, and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of operations, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1997, 
1996 and 1995. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement 
Schedule III, rental properties and accumulated depreciation. These 
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement 
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial 
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of the Company as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated results 
of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1997, 
1996 and 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 
Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedule 
referred to above, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial 
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the 
information set forth therein.

                                /s/ Ernst & Young LLP


Los Angeles, California
January 30, 1998

                                       F-1


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       
                            Consolidated Balance Sheets
                 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
                                        


SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.


                                       F-2

                                       
               Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       
                         Consolidated Statements of Operations
                   (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
                                       


SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.



                                       F-3


            Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       
                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


 SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES

                                       F-4


                Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       
                       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                              (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.


                                       F-5



              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                          December 31, 1997 and 1996


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES

BACKGROUND

Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (known as Health Science Properties, 
Inc. prior to 1997), a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), is a real estate 
investment trust ("REIT") formed in 1994.

The Company and its subsidiaries were formed to acquire, manage and 
selectively develop properties for lease principally to participants in the 
life science industry ("Life Science Facilities"). As of December 31, 1997 
and 1996, the Company owned 22 and 12 Life Science Facilities, respectively, 
in four and three states, respectively, consisting of 1,748,000 and 1,031,000 
rentable square feet, respectively.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and 
its wholly owned subsidiaries which own, directly or indirectly, Life 
Science Facilities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions 
have been eliminated in consolidation.

THE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

On June 2, 1997, the Company completed an initial public offering (the 
"Offering") of 6,750,000 shares of common stock. The Offering price was 
$20.00 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of $135,000,000. On June 26, 
1997, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option provided for in 
the Offering, and the Company issued an additional 1,012,500 shares of common 
stock, resulting in additional gross proceeds of $20,250,000. The aggregate 
net proceeds of the Offering (including exercise of the over-allotment 
option), net of underwriting discounts and commissions, advisory fees and 
offering costs, were approximately $138,890,000.


                                      F-6


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

THE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

The following transactions also occurred in June 1997 in connection with the 
Offering:

- -    The Company paid off debt of approximately $77,723,000, including (i)
     mortgage debt of $72,698,000, (ii) debt of $2,500,000 outstanding under
     its prior unsecured line of credit, and (iii) debt of $2,525,000 to Health
     Science Properties Holding Corporation ("Holdings"). Holdings owned all of
     the Company's common stock prior to the Offering and 15.5% of the common
     stock of the Company after the Offering and the exercise of the over-
     allotment option.
  
- -    The Company obtained two new mortgage loans totaling $15,360,000.
  
- -    The Company acquired an entity that owns three Life Science Facilities
     from affiliates of PaineWebber Incorporated, the lead managing underwriter
     for the Offering, for an aggregate purchase price of $58,844,000 (see
     Note 9).
  
- -    Each previously outstanding share of the Company's common stock was split
     into 1,765.923 shares of common stock. The share data as of and for the
     years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 has been restated to reflect the
     effects of the stock split.
  
- -    All of the previously outstanding shares of Series T preferred stock were
     redeemed at their stated value ($1,200 in the aggregate) (see Note 6).
  
- -    All of the previously outstanding shares of Series U preferred stock and
     Series V preferred stock were converted into shares of common stock (7,354
     shares in the aggregate for Series U and 1,659,239 shares in the aggregate
     for Series V) (see Note 6).
  
- -    Officers, directors and certain employees of the Company were granted an
     aggregate of 152,615 shares of the Company's common stock. In addition,
     officers, directors and certain employees of the Company were granted
     options to purchase 57,000 shares of the Company's common stock in
     substitution for stock options previously issued by Holdings (see Notes 5
     and 8). These options were exercised at a nominal exercise price in
     connection with the Offering.


                                      F-7


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

THE INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

- -    Officers, directors and employees of the Company were granted options
     under the Company's 1997 stock option plan to purchase an aggregate of
     600,000 shares of common stock of the Company at the Offering price (see
     Note 8).
  
- -    A special bonus of $353,000 was paid to an officer of the Company.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.

RENTAL PROPERTIES

Rental properties consist of the Company's portfolio of Life Science 
Facilities, recorded at cost. Costs associated with acquiring and renovating 
properties are capitalized as incurred. If events or circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount of a property may be impaired, the Company would 
make an assessment of its recoverability by estimating the future 
undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the property. If the 
carrying amount were to exceed the aggregate future cash flows, the Company 
would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds 
the fair value of the property. Based upon such periodic assessments, no 
impairment has been determined and no rental properties carrying amounts have 
been adjusted.


                                      F-8


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

RENTAL PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)

Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Major replacements and 
betterments are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.

Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method using estimated lives 
of 30 to 40 years for buildings and building improvements, 20 years for land 
improvements, and the term of the respective lease for tenant improvements.

RESTRICTED CASH

Restricted cash as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, consists of a tenant 
improvement reserve of $3,364,000 and $4,715,000, respectively, established 
by the Company pursuant to a lease at one of the Company's properties, funds 
held in trust of $1,966,000 and none, respectively, as additional security on 
a note with the City of Seattle, and security deposit funds and other 
restricted cash of $1,469,000 and $870,000, respectively. In connection with 
the repayment of the note with the City of Seattle, the cash held in trust was 
returned to the Company in February 1998 (see Note 4).

LOAN FEES AND COSTS

Fees and costs incurred in obtaining long-term financing are amortized over 
the terms of the related loans and included in interest expense.

RENTAL INCOME

Rental income from leases with scheduled rent increases, free rent and other 
rent adjustments are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Amounts currently recognized as income, and expected to be received in later 
years, are included in tenant receivables and deferred rent. Amounts received 
currently, but recognized as income in future years, are included in unearned 
rent.

OTHER INCOME

Other income consists of interest income and other income associated with the
operations of the properties. Interest income was $588,000, $118,000 and
$57,000 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


                                      F-9


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

LEASING COMMISSIONS

Leasing commissions are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the related lease.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following disclosures of estimated fair value of financial instruments at 
December 31, 1997 and 1996 were determined by management using available 
market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. Considerable 
judgment is necessary to interpret market data and develop estimated fair 
value. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation 
methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

Based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank 
loans with similar maturities, the fair value of secured notes payable as of 
December 31, 1997 and 1996 is approximately $46,822,000 and $113,215,000, 
respectively.  All other financial instruments are stated at amounts that 
approximate their fair value.

NET (LOSS) INCOME PER SHARE

Historical per share data has not been presented because it is not meaningful 
due to the material changes in the Company's capital structure as a result of 
the Offering.

The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 
("FAS 128") and has restated pro forma net income per share for the years 
ended December 31, 1996 and 1995. Because the impact of the Company's stock 
options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 is antidilutive, diluted net 
income per share is not presented for 1997. There were no dilutive stock 
options on a pro forma basis for 1996 and 1995.


                                      F-10


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

NET (LOSS) INCOME PER SHARE (CONTINUED)

Pro forma shares of common stock outstanding for the years ended December 31, 
1997 and 1996 include all shares outstanding after giving effect to the 
1,765.923 to 1 stock split, the issuance of stock grants, the issuance and 
exercise of substitute stock options and the conversion of the Series U and 
Series V preferred stock. In addition, shares issued to the public in 
connection with the Offering have been weighted for the period of time they 
were outstanding. Pro forma shares of common stock outstanding for the year 
ended December 31, 1995 include all shares outstanding after giving effect to 
the 1,765.923 to 1 stock split.

The following table sets forth the computation of net (loss) income per pro 
forma share of common stock outstanding:




                                      F-11


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


1. BACKGROUND, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES (CONTINUED)

INCOME TAXES

As a REIT, the Company is not subject to federal income taxation as long as 
it meets a number of organizational and operational requirements and 
distributes all of its taxable income to its stockholders. Since the Company 
believes it has met these requirements and the Company's distributions 
exceeded taxable income, no federal income tax provision has been reflected 
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for 1997 and 1996. If 
the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company will 
be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate 
tax rates. For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company reported that 
37.6% of its distributions with respect to common stock represented a return 
of capital for federal income tax purposes, while none of the distributions 
for the year ended December 31, 1996 represented a return of capital.

For the year ended December 31, 1995, before the Company elected to be taxed 
as a REIT, deferred income taxes were recognized for tax consequences of 
temporary differences resulting from income and expense items reported for 
financial accounting and tax purposes in different periods and tax net 
operating loss carryforwards.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current 
year presentation.

2. RENTAL PROPERTIES

Rental properties are as follows:




                                      F-12



              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


2. RENTAL PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)

Four of the Company's rental properties are encumbered by deeds of trust and 
assignments of rents and leases associated with the properties (see Note 4). 
The net book value of these properties as of December 31, 1997 is $70,663,000.

The Company leases space under noncancelable leases with remaining terms of 1 
to 20 years. Certain tenants are also obligated to reimburse the Company for 
specific operating expenses.

The Company capitalizes interest to properties under construction and 
renovation during the period the asset is undergoing activities to prepare it 
for its intended use. Total interest capitalized was $96,000 in 1997. Total 
interest incurred for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was 
$7,139,000, $6,327,000 and $3,553,000, respectively.

A majority of the Company's lease agreements require that the lessee pay all 
taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses applicable 
to the leased properties.

Minimum lease payments to be received under the terms of the operating lease 
agreements, excluding expense reimbursements, as of December 31, 1997, are as 
follows (in thousands):


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

3. UNSECURED LINE OF CREDIT

In connection with the Offering, the Company obtained an unsecured line of
credit providing for borrowings of up to $150,000,000, consisting of a
$100,000,000 activated portion and a $50,000,000 portion that may be activated
as needed at the Company's discretion (upon the payment of an activation fee)
provided no default exists under the line of credit facility. Borrowings under
the line of credit bear interest at a floating rate which is based on the
Company's election of either a LIBOR based rate or the higher of the bank's
reference rate and the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%.  For each LIBOR based


                                      F-13


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


3. UNSECURED LINE OF CREDIT (CONTINUED)

advance, the Company must elect to fix the rate for a one, two, three or six 
month period.

The line of credit contains financial covenants, including, among other 
things, maintenance of minimum market net worth, a total liabilities to gross 
asset value ratio, and a fixed charge coverage ratio (all as defined). The 
Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 1997. In 
addition, the terms of the line of credit restrict, among other things, 
certain investments, indebtedness, distributions and mergers. Borrowings 
under the line of credit are limited to an amount based on a pool of 
unencumbered assets. Accordingly, as the Company acquires additional 
unencumbered properties, borrowings available under the line credit will 
increase.  As of December 31, 1997, borrowings under the line of credit were 
limited to approximately $103,000,000, and $23,000,000 was outstanding 
(leaving $80,000,000 available), at a weighted average rate of interest of 
6.9%.

The line of credit expires on May 31, 2000 and provides for annual extensions 
(provided there is no default) for two additional one-year periods. In 
addition, at the Company's election, the line of credit may be converted at 
any time to a term loan with principal installments over two years from the 
date of such conversion.

In connection with obtaining the line of credit, the Company incurred 
$705,000 in fees and costs, which are being amortized over the term of the 
line of credit. In addition, the Company is required to continue to pay 
certain periodic fees for the line of credit, depending on the usage of the 
facility. The fees are included as part of interest expense.

4. SECURED NOTES PAYABLE

As of December 31, 1997, the Company had three notes payable to banks and an 
insurance company, secured by first and second deeds of trust on four rental 
properties. The notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 7.17% to 
9.00% and are due at various dates through 2016. As of December 31, 1997 and 
1996, the outstanding balances under these notes were $47,817,000 and 
$61,292,000, respectively.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had an aggregate of $51,890,000 
outstanding under two notes payable and two secured lines of credit with 
PaineWebber Incorporated, the City of Seattle and two banks. The loans bore 
interest at variable rates based upon LIBOR or the prime rate. As of December 
31, 1996, the interest rates on these loans ranged from 8.28% to 9.75%. In 
connection with the Offering, the Company repaid $46,030,000 of the balance 
outstanding as of December 31, 1996. The remaining


                                      F-14

              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


4. SECURED NOTES PAYABLE (CONTINUED)

$5,860,000 was repaid in November 1997. In connection with the retirement of 
these loans, the Company wrote-off $2,147,000 of unamortized loan costs, 
including the cost of certain interest rate cap agreements.

Future principal payments due on secured notes payable as of December 31, 
1997, are as follows (in thousands):



5. NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS

Stock compensation expense represents non-cash compensation expense 
associated with stock grants and stock options issued to officers, directors 
and certain employees of the Company in connection with the Offering. Stock 
compensation expense of $4,239,000 was recognized to record the stock grants 
and the issuance and exercise of substitute stock options (see Note 8).

In connection with the Offering, outstanding shares of the Company's Series U 
preferred stock and Series V preferred stock were converted into shares of 
common stock (see Note 6). The common stock issued was recorded at the book 
value of the Series U preferred stock and the Series V preferred stock (an 
aggregate of $27,061,000).

6. PREFERRED STOCK AND EXCESS STOCK

SERIES V CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

Prior to the Offering, the Company had 27,500 shares of manditorily 
redeemable Series V cumulative convertible preferred stock outstanding. The 
stated value of each share was $1,000. In connection with the Offering, the 
shares were converted into 1,659,239 shares of common stock. The conversion 
rate was computed to provide for an internal rate of return on the stated 
value of each share, equal to 20% less the return previously received from 
prior dividends.


                                      F-15


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


6. PREFERRED STOCK AND EXCESS STOCK (CONTINUED)

SERIES V CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK (CONTINUED)

Prior to conversion, Series V preferred stockholders were entitled to 
dividends at an annual rate of 10% of the stated value per share during the 
first twelve dividend periods or such larger amount as would be payable on an 
as converted basis if the Series V preferred stock were converted to common 
stock. Dividends were cumulative and payable in quarterly equal installments 
on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year. Offering 
costs associated with the issuance of the Series V preferred stock were 
deducted from the proceeds of the issuance. Until the conversion of the 
Series V preferred stock into shares of common stock in 1997, the Company 
accreted the amount of the offering costs and the difference between the 
minimum yield requirement on the Series V preferred stock (20% per annum) and 
the minimum dividend payment as a charge to additional paid-in capital.

SERIES T AND SERIES U PREFERRED STOCK

Holders of each of the Series T and Series U preferred stock were entitled to 
dividends at an annual rate of 8.5% of the stated value per share. In 
connection with the Offering, all of the previously outstanding shares of 
Series T preferred stock (12 shares) were redeemed at their stated value 
($1,200 in the aggregate). In connection with the Offering, all of the 
previously outstanding shares of Series U preferred stock (220 shares) were 
converted into an aggregate of 7,354 shares of common stock.

PREFERRED STOCK AND EXCESS STOCK AUTHORIZATIONS

The charter of the Company authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 
shares of preferred stock and 200,000,000 shares of excess stock (as 
defined), none of which was issued and outstanding at December 31, 1997.

7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION

The Company currently is not subject to any material legal proceedings or 
claims, nor, to management's knowledge, are any material legal proceedings or 
claims being threatened.


                                      F-16


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT

In 1997, in connection with the Offering, an officer of the Company retired. 
In connection with the officer's retirement, the Company agreed to pay a 
post-retirement benefit equal to $150,000 for each of the first three years 
following the Offering, and $90,000 per year (plus an annual increase of 2% 
per year) thereafter for the remainder of the longer of the executive's life 
and the executive's current spouse's life. In 1997 and 1996, the Company 
recorded a post-retirement expense for past services equal to $632,000 and 
$438,000, respectively (pursuant to a prior agreement). The accrual was based 
upon the estimated number of payments to be made, discounted at a rate of 8%. 
As of December 31, 1997, the accrued liability for post-retirement benefit is 
$1,037,000. For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company paid $75,000 
under the retirement agreement of which $42,000 represented interest.

EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN

Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted a retirement savings plan 
pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"), whereby 
participants may contribute a portion of their compensation to their 
respective retirement accounts, in an amount not to exceed the maximum 
allowed under the Code. The plan provides for matching contributions by the 
Company, which amounted to $36,000 for the year ended December 31, 1997. Plan 
participants are immediately vested in their contributions and in the 
matching contributions by the Company.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents at insured financial 
institutions. The combined account balances at each institution periodically 
exceed FDIC insurance coverage, and, as a result, there is a concentration of 
credit risk related to amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. 
Management believes that the risk is not significant.

The Company is dependent on rental payments from a limited number of tenants, 
and the inability of any single tenant to make its lease payments could 
adversely affect the Company and its ability to make distributions to 
stockholders. As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 42 leases with a total 
of 35 tenants, and 12 of the Company's 22 properties were single tenant 
properties. At December 31, 1997, three of the Company's tenants accounted 
for approximately 29.5% of the Company's aggregate annualized base rent.


                                      F-17


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK (CONTINUED)

The Company does not generally require collateral or other security from its 
tenants other than security deposits. The Company has available from certain 
tenants two irrevocable letters of credit totaling $858,000 which are used as 
security deposits for two leases.

8. STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK GRANTS

The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, 
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25") and related 
Interpretations in accounting for its employee and director stock options, 
stock grants and stock appreciation rights. Under APB 25, if the exercise 
price of employee and director stock options granted by the Company equals 
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no 
compensation expense is recognized.

1997 STOCK OPTION PLAN

In connection with the Offering, the Company adopted a stock option and 
incentive plan (the "1997 Stock Option Plan"). The 1997 Stock Option Plan is 
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and 
provides for the grant of incentive stock options intended to qualify as such 
under Section 422 of the Code, non-qualified stock options, stock 
appreciation rights and restricted stock to employees, officers, directors 
and independent contractors (including non-employee directors) of the Company 
with respect to 900,000 shares of common stock. The 1997 Stock Option Plan 
permits the Compensation Committee to select eligible employees, officers, 
directors and independent contractors (including non-employee directors) of 
the Company to receive awards, to determine the type and number of awards to 
be granted and to determine the terms, conditions, restrictions and 
performance criteria relating to any award. As of December 31, 1997, there 
were 701,000 options outstanding under the 1997 Stock Option Plan. The 
Company has reserved 900,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the 
1997 Stock Option Plan.

During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company granted 701,000 stock 
options under the 1997 stock option plan at exercise prices ranging from 
$20.00 to $30.94 (the market price at date of grant). All of these options 
have a ten year term. Options for 671,000 shares vest ratably in three annual 
installments from the date of grant. The


                                      F-18



             Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


8. STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK GRANTS (CONTINUED)

1997 STOCK OPTION PLAN (CONTINUED)

remaining 30,000 options (which were issued to non-employee directors) were 
exercisable immediately upon the date of grant.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share has been 
determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options 
under the fair value method. The fair value of the options issued under the 
1997 Stock Option Plan was estimated at the date of grant using a 
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average 
assumptions for 1997: risk-free interest rate of 5.82%; dividend yield 
ranging from 5.17% to 8%; volatility factor of the expected market price of 
the Company's common stock of 28.7%; and a weighted average expected life of 
the option of five years.

For purposes of the following pro forma disclosures for the year ended 
December 31, 1997, the estimated fair value of these options has been 
amortized to expense over the vesting periods (in thousands, except per share 
information):



A summary of the Company's stock option activity under the 1997 Stock Option 
Plan, and related information for the year ended December 31, 1997 follows:



                                      F-19


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


8. STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK GRANTS (CONTINUED)

1997 STOCK OPTION PLAN (CONTINUED)

Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 range from 
$20.00 to $30.94. The weighted average contractual life of those options is 
9.5 years.

PRIOR STOCK OPTION PLAN

Prior to the Offering, the Company had a ten-year incentive and nonqualified 
stock option plan (the "Prior Plan") for certain employees and non-employee 
directors of the Company.

Under the Prior Plan, holders of options to purchase common stock of Holdings 
granted under stock option plans of Holdings ("Holdings Stock Options") were 
eligible, under certain circumstances (including the Offering), to receive 
substitute stock options of the Company in substitution for previously 
granted Holdings Stock Options. As such, in connection with the Offering, 
officers, directors and certain employees of the Company received substitute 
stock options to purchase 57,000 shares of common stock of the Company under 
the Prior Plan. Such substitute stock options were exercised in connection 
with the Offering at a nominal exercise price. No further stock options were 
issued under the Prior Plan. In connection with the issuance of the 
substitute stock options, the Company recognized $1,187,000 of stock 
compensation expense.

The following table sets forth certain information regarding activity in
Holdings Stock Options, including (i) the grant date of the Holdings Stock
Options, (ii) the number of substitute stock options that were granted in
connection with the Offering in substitution for the underlying Holdings Stock
Options and (iii) the weighted average exercise price of substitute stock
options for shares of the Company's common stock.

                                      F-20


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


8. STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK GRANTS (CONTINUED)

PRIOR STOCK OPTION PLAN (CONTINUED)






(1)    The grant of substitute stock options was made in May 1997.



      No compensation expense was recorded with respect to Holdings Stock
      Options issued during the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995
      since they were issued with an exercise price equal to the then fair
      market value of the Holdings common stock.
      
      STOCK GRANTS
      
      In connection with the Offering, officers, directors and certain
      employees of the Company were granted on aggregate of 152,615 shares
      of common stock. As a result of the grants, the Company recorded
      stock compensation expense of $3,052,000.


                                     F-21



              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


9. PURCHASE OF ACQUISITION LLC

During January 1997, the Company assigned its rights to purchase three Life
Science Facilities to an entity owned by affiliates of PaineWebber
Incorporated ("PaineWebber"), the lead managing underwriter of the Offering
(the "Acquisition LLC"). In January 1997, the Acquisition LLC acquired the
three Life Science Facilities for $51,871,000 from unaffiliated sellers. In
connection with the Offering, the Company acquired 100% of the membership
interests in the Acquisition LLC from the PaineWebber affiliates.

The Company's purchase price for the membership interests ($58,844,000)
exceeded the cost incurred by the Acquisition LLC to acquire the properties
($51,871,000). The Company's acquisition of the membership interests in the
Acquisition LLC has been recorded as a financing transaction, with the excess
of the purchase price of such membership interests over the cost of the
Acquisition LLC to acquire the properties ($6,973,000) being reflected as a
financing cost in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

10. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company incurred $3,358,000, $1,708,000 and
$369,000, respectively, for legal services provided by a firm of which a
minority shareholder of Holdings is a member.

During 1996, Holdings advanced to the Company $2,483,000 bearing interest at a
rate of 10% per annum which was due on demand. For the year ended December 31,
1996, $162,000 of interest was accrued and $42,000 was paid on this advance.
During 1997 in connection with the Offering, the Company repaid this advance
plus accrued interest.


                                     F-22


              Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Following is a summary of consolidated financial information on a quarterly
basis for 1997 and 1996:




12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

On various dates subsequent to December 31, 1997 (through March 27, 1998), the
Company acquired 11 Life Science Facilities containing an aggregate of 927,000
rentable square feet for an aggregate purchase price of $109,875,000 and made
a $6,000,000 loan secured by real estate related to one of these Life Science
Facilities. Of these amounts, $103,000,000 was funded through draws on the
Company's line of credit, $12,641,000 through the assumption of existing debt,
and the remainder with working capital.


                                F-23



            Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       
                                 Schedule III
                                       
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Rental Properties and Accumulated
                                 Depreciation
                                       
                               December 31, 1997
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SQUARE FOOT DATA)


(1) The depreciable life for buildings and improvements ranges from 30 to 40
years, 20 years for land improvements, and the term of the respective lease for
tenant improvement.


                                      F-24


A summary of activity of consolidated rental properties and accumulated
depreciation is as follows:










                                       F-25


