
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
                (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
              OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                       OR
          ( ) Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required)
                        For the transition period from       to

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-14756

                               AMEREN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Missouri                                     43-1723446
(State or other jurisdiction                (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
of incorporation or organization)


                 1901 Chouteau Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63103
              (Address of principal executive offices and Zip Code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (314) 621-3222

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE.

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X . No .

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. (X)

         Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
March 20, 1998, based on closing prices most recently available as reported in
The Wall Street Journal: $5,805,929,236.

         Shares of Common Stock, $5 par value, outstanding as of March 20, 1998:
137,215,462 shares.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCES.

         Portions of the registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders (the
"1997 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.

         Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the 1998
annual meeting are incorporated by reference into Part III.

                                


- --------
(1) Incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Not applicable and not included herein.

                                     PART I

ITEM     1.   BUSINESS.

               GENERAL. The Registrant, Ameren Corporation (the "Company"), was
incorporated in Missouri on August 7, 1995. On December 31, 1997, following the
receipt of all required approvals, CIPSCO Incorporated ("CIPSCO") and Union
Electric Company ("UE") combined with the result that the common shareholders of
CIPSCO and UE became the common shareholders of the Company, and the Company
became the owner of 100% of the common stock of CIPSCO's operating subsidiary,
Central Illinois Public Service Company ("CIPS") and UE. Pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 11, 1995 between (among others)
CIPSCO, UE, and the Company, each outstanding share of UE common stock has been
exchanged for one share of the Company's common stock and each outstanding share
of CIPSCO common stock has been exchanged for 1.03 shares of the Company's
common stock.

               For additional information about the merger, see "Overview" in
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" and Notes 1 and 2 to the "Notes to
Financial Statements" on Pages 18, 29, and 30, respectively, of the 1997 Annual
Report pages incorporated herein by reference.

               Ameren is a public utility holding company registered under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 ("PUHCA") and does not own or operate
any significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries, including its
two operating subsidiaries, CIPS and UE. Dividends on Ameren's Common Stock are
dependent on distributions to be made to it by CIPS, UE, and its other
subsidiaries. The 1997 Annual Report Form 10-K's for CIPS and UE are available
from the Company upon request.

               CIPS is an Illinois corporation organized in 1902. It supplies
electric and gas service to territories in central and southern Illinois having
an estimated population of 820,000 within an area of approximately 20,000 square
miles. UE was incorporated in Missouri in 1922, and is successor to a number of
companies, the oldest of which was organized in 1881. It is the largest electric
utility in the State of Missouri and supplies electric and gas service in
territories in Missouri and Illinois having an estimated population of 2,600,000
within an area of approximately 24,500 square miles, including the greater St.
Louis area.

               The Company recorded an extraordinary charge to earnings in the
fourth quarter of 1997 for the write-off of generation-related regulatory assets
and liabilities of the Company's Illinois retail electric business as a result
of electric industry restructuring legislation enacted in Illinois in December
1997. The write-off reduced earnings $52 million, net of income taxes, or 38
cents per share (See Note 2 to the "Notes to Financial Statements " on Page 30
of the 1997 Annual Report pages incorporated herein by reference.)

               On a consolidated basis, 92.1% of the Company's 1997 operating
revenues was derived from the sale of electric energy, 7.5% came from the sale
of natural gas, and 0.4% came from other sources. Consolidated electric
operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for the years
1995 and 1996 were 93% and 92%, respectively.

               The Company also owns all of the common stock of other subsidiary
companies as follows: (a) CIPSCO Investment Company, a non-regulated investment
company incorporated in Illinois; (b) Ameren Services Company, a Missouri
corporation which provides administrative, accounting, legal, engineering,
executive, and other support services to Ameren affiliates; (c) Ameren Energy,
Inc., a Missouri corporation which will provide power marketing, risk management
and energy services; and (d) Ameren Development Company, a non-regulated holding
company incorporated in Missouri. In addition, through its operating
subsidiaries, the Company owns 60% of

                                      - 1 -

the Common Stock of Electric Energy, Inc., which owns and operates a generating
plant with a nominal capacity of 1,000 mW. 60% of the plant's output is
committed to the Department of Energy, 10% to UE, 5% to CIPS, and the remainder
to its other owners.

               At December 31, 1997, the Company and its subsidiaries had 8,149
employees.

               CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM AND FINANCING. The Company is engaged in a
construction program under which expenditures averaging approximately $333
million are anticipated during each of the next five years. Capital expenditures
for compliance with the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 are included in the
construction program but the estimate does not include expenditures which may be
incurred to meet new air quality standards -- also see "Regulation", below. The
Company does not anticipate a need for additional base load electric generating
capacity until after the year 2013.

               In addition to the funds required for construction during the
1998-2002 period, $488 million will be required to repay long-term debt as
follows: $52 million in 1998; $209 million in 1999; $49 million in 2000; $44
million in 2001; and $134 million in 2002. Amounts for years subsequent to 1998
do not include UE's nuclear fuel lease payments since the amounts of such
payments are not currently determinable.

               Financing. Historically, CIPS and UE have financed those
construction costs which exceeded available internally generated funds through
issuance of short-term debt in the form of bank loans and commercial paper. As
needed, the short-term debt would be subsequently reduced by sales of long-term
debt and equity securities.

               To issue first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, CIPS and UE
each must comply with earnings tests contained in their respective mortgages and
Articles. For the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds, generally,
earnings coverage of twice the annual interest charges on first mortgage bonds
outstanding and to be issued is required. Generally, for the issuance of
additional preferred stock, earnings coverage of one and one-half times annual
interest charges and preferred stock dividends is required under the CIPS
Articles, and earnings coverage of at least two and one-half times the annual
dividend on preferred stock outstanding and to be issued is required under UE's
Articles. The ability to issue such securities in the future will depend on
coverages at that time. Currently, each company expects to have adequate
coverage ratios for anticipated requirements.

               For additional information on the Company's financial needs, see
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on
Page 20, and Notes 5, 6, and 10 to the "Notes to Financial Statements" on Pages
34 and 40, of the 1997 Annual Report pages incorporated herein by reference.

               RATES. For the year 1997, approximately 60%, 22%, and 18% of the
Company's electric operating revenues were based on rates regulated by the
Missouri Public Service Commission ("MoPSC"), the Illinois Commerce Commission
("ICC"), and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") of the U. S.
Department of Energy, respectively.

               As permitted by electric utility restructuring legislation in
Illinois, CIPS and UE have elected to eliminate the fuel adjustment clause on
sales of electricity in Illinois, thereby including a historical level of fuel
costs in base rates. The CIPS request has been approved by the ICC, and a
decision on the UE request is expected by early May, 1998.


                                      - 2 -

               For additional information on "Rates", see Note 2 to the "Notes
to Financial Statements" on Page 30 of the 1997 Annual Report pages incorporated
herein by reference.

               FUEL SUPPLY.


               Nuclear. UE has agreements to fulfill its Callaway Nuclear Plant
needs for uranium, enrichment, and fabrication services through 2002, and
agreements for conversion services are sufficient to supply the Plant through
1999. Additional contracts will have to be entered into in order to supply
nuclear fuel during the remainder of the life of the Plant, at prices which
cannot now be accurately predicted. The Callaway Plant normally requires
re-fueling at 18-month intervals and re-fuelings are presently scheduled for the
spring of 1998 and the fall of 1999. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982,
the U. S. Department of Energy is responsible for the permanent storage and
disposal of spent nuclear fuel. DOE currently charges one mill per nuclear
generated kilowatt-hour sold for future disposal of spent fuel. Electric rates
charged to customers provide for recovery of such costs. DOE is not expected to
have its permanent storage facility for spent fuel available until at least
2015. UE has sufficient storage capacity at the Callaway Plant site until 2004
and is pursuing a viable storage alternative. This alternative will require
Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval. The delayed availability of DOE's
disposal facility is not expected to adversely affect the continued operation of
the Callaway Plant.

               For additional information on the Company's "Fuel Supply", see
Note 10 to the "Notes to Financial Statements" on Page 40 of the 1997 Annual
Report pages incorporated herein by reference.

               REGULATION. As a holding company registered under the PUHCA,
Ameren, along with its subsidiaries, is subject to the regulatory provisions
of said Act, including provisions relating to the issuance of securities, sales
and acquisitions of securities and utility assets, the services performed by
Ameren Services Company, and the activities of certain other subsidiaries.

               CIPS and UE are subject to regulation, as applicable, by the
MoPSC and the ICC as to rates, service, accounts, issuance of equity securities,
issuance of debt having a maturity of more than twelve months, mergers, and
various other matters. Said companies are also subject to regulation by the FERC
as to rates and charges in connection with the transmission of electric energy
in interstate commerce and the sale of such energy at wholesale in interstate
commerce, mergers, and certain other matters. Authorization to issue debt having
a maturity of twelve months or less is obtained from the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

               In December 1997, the Governor of Illinois signed the Electric
Service Customer Choice and Rate Relief Law of 1997 providing for electric
utility restructuring in Illinois. This legislation introduces competition into
the supply of electric energy in Illinois and, as a result, prices for the
retail supply of electric generation are expected to transition from cost-based,

                                      - 3 -

regulated rates to rates determined in large part by competitive market forces.
For a discussion of the legislation, see Note 2 to the "Notes to Financial
Statements" on Page 30 of the 1997 Annual Report pages incorporated herein by
reference.

               Operation of UE's Callaway Plant is subject to regulation by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Its Facility Operating License for the Callaway
Plant expires on October 18, 2024. UE's Osage hydroelectric plant and its Taum
Sauk pumped-storage hydro plant, as licensed projects under the Federal Power
Act, are subject to FERC regulations affecting, among other things, the general
operation and maintenance of the projects. The license for the Osage Plant
expires on February 28, 2006, and the license for the Taum Sauk Plant expires on
June 30, 2010. UE's Keokuk Plant and dam located in the Mississippi River
between Hamilton, Illinois and Keokuk, Iowa, are operated under authority,
unlimited in time, granted by an Act of Congress in 1905.

               CIPS and UE are regulated, in certain of their operations, by air
and water pollution and hazardous waste regulations at the city, county, state
and federal levels.

               National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In July 1997, the United
States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") issued final regulations revising
the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter.
Although specific emission control requirements are still being developed, it is
believed that the revised standards will require significant additional
reductions in nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired
boilers. In October 1997, the EPA announced that Missouri and Illinois are
included in the area targeted for nitrogen oxide emissions reductions as part of
the EPA's regional control program. Reduction requirements in nitrogen oxide
emissions from UE's and CIPS' coal-fired boilers could exceed 80% from 1990
levels by the year 2002. Reduction requirements in sulfur dioxide emissions may
be up to 50% beyond that already required by Phase II acid rain control
provisions of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments and could be required by 2007.
Because of the magnitude of these additional reductions, the Company could be
required to incur significantly higher capital costs to meet future compliance
obligations for the coal-fired boilers or purchase power from other sources,
either of which could have significantly higher operations and maintenance
expenditures associated with compliance. At this time, the Company is unable to
determine the impact of the revised air quality standards on its future
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

               In December 1997, the United States and numerous other countries
agreed to certain environmental provisions (the Kyoto Protocol), which would
require decreases in greenhouse gases in an effort to address the "global
warming" issue. The Company is unable to predict what requirements, if any, will
be adopted in this country. However, implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in its
present form would likely result in significantly higher capital costs and
operations and maintenance expenditures by the Company. At this time, the
Company is unable to determine the impact of these proposals on its future
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

               For additional discussion of environmental matters, see Note 10
to the "Notes to Financial Statements" on Page 40 of the 1997 Annual Report
pages incorporated by reference.

               Other aspects of the Company's business are subject to the
jurisdiction of various regulatory authorities and, for additional information
on "Regulation", see Note 2 to the "Notes to Financial Statements" on Page 30 of
the 1997 Annual Report pages incorporated herein by reference.

               INDUSTRY ISSUES.  The Company is facing issues common to the
electric and gas utility industries which have emerged during the past several
years. These issues include: the potential for more intense competition and for
changing the structure of regulation; changes in the

                                      - 4 -

structure of the industry as a result of changes in federal and state laws;
on-going consideration of additional changes of the industry by federal and
state authorities; continually developing environmental laws, regulations and
issues including proposed new air quality standards; public concern about the
siting of new facilities; proposals for demand side management programs; public
concerns about nuclear decommissioning and the disposal of nuclear wastes; and
global climate issues. The Company is monitoring these issues and is unable to
predict at this time what impact, if any, these issues will have on its
operations, financial condition, or liquidity.

               Also see "Outlook" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis" and
Note 10 to the "Notes to Financial Statements" on Pages 22 and 40, respectively,
of the Annual Report pages incorporated herein by reference.

               OPERATING STATISTICS. The information on Pages 46 and 47 in the
Company's 1997 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM     2.   PROPERTIES.

            The following table sets forth information with respect to the
Company's generating facilities and capability at the time of the expected 1998
peak.


                                      - 5 -

               As of December 31, 1997, CIPS owned approximately 4,800 circuit
miles of electric transmission lines and substations with a transformer capacity
of approximately 19,450,000 kVA. CIPS operates one propane-air plant and  4,800
miles of gas mains. As of that date, UE owned approximately 3,304 circuit miles
of electric transmission lines and substations with a transformer capacity of
approximately 45,497,000 kVA. UE operates three propane-air plants and 2,737
miles of gas mains. Other properties of the companies include distribution
lines, underground cable, and office buildings, warehouses, garages and repair
shops.

               Substantially all of the properties and plant of CIPS and UE are
subject to the direct first liens of the indentures securing their first
mortgage bonds.


ITEM      3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

            The Company is involved in legal and administrative proceedings
before various courts and agencies with respect to matters arising in the
ordinary course of business, some of which involve substantial amounts.
Management believes that the final disposition of these proceedings will not
have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations
or liquidity.



            Statements made in this report which are not based on historical
facts, are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed.
Although such forward-looking statements have been made in good faith and are
based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that the expected results
will be achieved. These statements include (without limitation) statements as to
future expectations, beliefs, plans, strategies, objectives, events, conditions
and financial performance. In connection with the "Safe Harbor" provisions of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is providing
this cautionary statement to identify important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those anticipated. Factors include, but are
not limited to, the effects of: regulatory actions; changes in laws and other
governmental actions; competition; future market prices for electricity; average
rates for electricity in the Midwest; business and economic conditions; weather
conditions; fuel prices and availability; generation plant performance; monetary
and fiscal policies; and legal and administrative proceedings.


INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REQUIRED BY ITEM 401(b) OF
REGULATION S-K:



                                     - 6 -

            All officers are elected or appointed annually by the Board of
Directors following the election of such Board at the annual meeting of
stockholders held in April. There are no family relationships between the
foregoing officers of the Company. Except for Mr. Baxter, each of the
above-named executive officers has been employed by the Company or its
affiliates for more than five years in executive or management positions. Mr.
Baxter was previously employed by Price Waterhouse LLP.


                                     PART II

ITEM     5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
              STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

         Information required to be reported by this item is included on Page 49
of the 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM     6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         Information for the 1993-1997 period required to be reported by this
item is included on Page 45 of the 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein
by reference.


ITEM     7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
              CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

         Information required to be reported by this item is included on Pages
18 through 23 of the 1997 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM     8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

         The financial statements of the Company on Pages 24 through 44, the
report thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP appearing on Page 17 and the Selected
Quarterly Information on Page 28 of the 1997 Annual Report are incorporated
herein by reference.

                                      - 7 -

                                    PART III

ITEM     10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         Any information concerning directors required to be reported by this
item is included under "Item (1): Election of Directors" in the Company's 1998
definitive proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A and is incorporated
herein by reference.

         Information concerning executive officers required by this item is
reported in Part I of this Form 10-K.


ITEM     11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

         Any information required to be reported by this item is included under
"Compensation" in the Company's 1998 definitive proxy statement filed pursuant
to Regulation 14A and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM     12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
               MANAGEMENT.

         Any information required to be reported by this item is included under
"Security Ownership of Management" in the Company's 1998 definitive proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A and is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM     13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         Any information required to be reported by this item is included under
"Item (1): Election of Directors" in the Company's 1998 definitive proxy
statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A and is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                      - 8 -

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

         (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

         1.   Financial Statements: *


              *Incorporated by reference from the indicated pages of the 1997
              Annual Report

         2.   Financial Statement Schedule:

              The following schedule, for the years ended December 31, 1997,
              1996, and 1995, should be read in conjunction with the
              aforementioned financial statements (schedules not included have
              been omitted because they are not applicable or the required data
              is shown in the aforementioned financial statements).


         3.   Exhibits: See EXHIBITS beginning on Page 13

         (b)  Reports on Form 8-K. During the last quarter of 1997, the Company
              filed a report on Form 8-K dated December 31, 1997 reporting
              completion of the merger transaction between CIPSCO and UE.


                                      - 9 -

                           REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                            ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE





To the Board of Directors
of Ameren Corporation


Our audits of the financial statements referred to in our report dated February
5, 1998 appearing in the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders of Ameren
Corporation (which report and financial statements are incorporated by reference
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial
Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,
this Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
financial statements.



/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
St. Louis, Missouri
February 5, 1998

                                     - 10 -



                               AMEREN CORPORATION
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995






Note:  Uncollectible accounts charged off, less recoveries.


                                                      - 11 -


                                   SIGNATURES

            Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   AMEREN CORPORATION
                                      (Registrant)

                                   CHARLES W. MUELLER
                                   Chairman, President and
                                   Chief Executive Officer

Date    March 30, 1998             By    /s/ James C. Thompson
     -----------------------          ---------------------------------------
                                        (James C. Thompson, Attorney-in-Fact)

            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

                                     - 12 -

                                    EXHIBITS

                             EXHIBITS FILED HEREWITH




                       EXHIBITS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

            The following exhibits heretofore have been filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to requirements of the Acts
administered by the Commission. Such exhibits are identified by the references
following the listing of each such exhibit, and they are hereby incorporated
herein by reference.







                                                     - 13 -


