10-K


b67076pte10vk.htm

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

For the Fiscal Year Ended: September 30, 2007

Commission File

Number: 0-18059

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
    CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Massachusetts

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

04-2866152

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

140 Kendrick Street, Needham, MA 02494

(Address of principal executive
    offices, including zip code)

(781) 370-5000

(Registrant’s telephone
    number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share

Series A Junior Participating Preferred

Stock Purchase Rights

NASDAQ Global Select Market

None

Securities registered
    pursuant

to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.

YES

x

NO

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is not required to
    file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.

YES

o

NO

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.

YES

x

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated
    Filer

x

Accelerated
    Filer

o

Non-accelerated
    Filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  YES

o

NO

x

The aggregate market value of our voting stock held by
    non-affiliates was approximately $2,145,330,897 on
    March 31, 2007 based on the last reported sale price of our
    common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on that day.
    There were 114,798,585 shares of our common stock
    outstanding on that day and 115,928,680 shares of our
    common stock outstanding on November 23, 2007.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement in connection with
    the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (2008 Proxy Statement)
    are incorporated by reference into Part III.


EXPLANATORY
    NOTE

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for fiscal 2007, we are restating our consolidated financial
    statements (and related disclosures) as of September 30,
    2006 and for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    which are included in “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” in Item 8. This

Form 10-K

also (i) reflects the restatement of “Selected
    Financial Data” in Item 6 as of and for each of the
    years ended September 30, 2003 through 2006 and for each of
    the quarterly periods in fiscal 2007 and 2006 and
    (ii) amends “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
    Item 7 as it relates to fiscal 2006 and 2005.

We also intend to amend our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q

for the quarters ended December 30, 2006, March 31,
    2007 and June 30, 2007 as originally filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 to restate our
    unaudited financial statements and related financial information
    for those periods and the comparative 2006 periods for the
    effects of the restatement. We do not intend to file any other
    amended Annual Reports on

Form 10-K

or Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q

for periods affected by the restatement. For this reason, the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and related financial
    information contained in any of our previously filed financial
    reports should no longer be relied upon.

Background
    of the Restatement

As a result of an independent investigation led by the Audit
    Committee of our Board of Directors, the Audit Committee
    concluded on October 29, 2007 that we would need to restate
    our previously issued financial statements for the effect of
    certain transactions involving Toshiba Corporation of Japan
    (“Toshiba”), for which we recorded revenue of
    approximately $41 million during fiscal 2001 through 2006.
    Based on its investigation, the Audit Committee concluded that
    the understanding of the arrangement was not fully reflected in
    the order paperwork for these transactions because there were
    additional circumstances known or knowable by one or more of our
    personnel in Japan. That condition required us to change our
    conclusion that the transactions met the revenue recognition
    criteria of Statement of Position

97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition

.

The results of the investigation indicate that during the period
    2001 to 2006, an employee of Toshiba Corporation initiated
    purchases of both software and services from our subsidiary in
    Japan, PTC Japan K.K. (“PTC Japan”). Many of these
    purchases were completed through a third party trading company
    that procured the software and services on Toshiba’s
    behalf. The transactions were supported by orders that were
    signed by employees of Toshiba and the third party trading
    company. PTC Japan delivered the items for which revenue was
    recorded and was paid for the orders in question. The Toshiba
    employee also allegedly entered into a series of financing
    agreements with third party leasing companies, including GE
    Capital Leasing Corporation of Japan (“GECL”), in the
    name of Toshiba to fund various purchases. As part of those
    transactions, the leasing companies allegedly entered into
    transactions with various third party trading companies to
    procure the purchased items on behalf of Toshiba. We were not a
    party to those financing agreements. Toshiba has disclaimed
    responsibility for repayment of these financed amounts and has
    alleged that the Toshiba employee who entered into the financing
    agreements was not authorized to do so and that Toshiba did not
    receive delivery of the items so financed.

Recently, the Toshiba employee involved in the transactions was
    arrested and charged with defrauding certain of the leasing
    companies. Among the allegations against him are that he forged
    contracts in the name of Toshiba. In addition, three
    individuals—each employed by a different trading company
    involved in the transactions—have been arrested for alleged
    involvement in a scheme to defraud the leasing companies.
    According to published news reports, the Toshiba employee and
    these other individuals are suspected of diverting some of the
    proceeds of the financings to a bank account controlled by one
    or more of them. Following these arrests, it was reported on
    October 23, 2007 that two former employees of PTC Japan
    were arrested on suspicion of demanding “hush money”
    from one of the participants in the fraudulent scheme. The press
    accounts indicate that the former PTC Japan employees—who
    left employment with PTC Japan in 2003 and 2004,
    respectively—were no longer working at PTC Japan at the
    time of the alleged demands. According to the press accounts,
    these individuals have not been charged with participating in
    the alleged underlying fraud.

To effect the restatement of revenue associated with the
    transactions placed by the Toshiba employee, we reduced
    previously recorded revenue by approximately $8 million in
    fiscal 2006, $15 million in fiscal 2005, $9 million in
    fiscal 2004, $2 million in fiscal 2003 and $7 million
    in prior years, and recorded related income tax effects. We did
    not make any adjustments to the costs incurred in connection
    with these transactions due to the uncertainty regarding our
    ultimate ability to retain the advances received for these
    transactions and our belief that all such costs are
    unrecoverable. Upon restatement, the revenue reversed from those
    prior periods was deferred and classified as Customer Advances
    in our consolidated balance sheets. That liability (which
    totaled $40.3 million and $39.5 million at
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, after the
    effects of foreign currency movements) will remain recorded
    until the rights and obligations of the several companies
    connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the
    extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce
    Customer Advances and record revenue or other income at that
    time.

i


Our restatement of prior period financial statements also
    includes adjustments for other previously identified errors that
    we had corrected in the periods they became known to us rather
    than in the periods in which they originated because we believed
    that the amounts of such errors, individually and in the
    aggregate, were not material to our financial statements for the
    affected periods. In this restatement, we have now recorded
    those corrections in the periods in which each error originated.
    Such adjustments, which have been tax effected, primarily relate
    to (i) recording rent expense on a straight-line basis for
    one of our office facilities, (ii) recording stock-based
    compensation expense due to the timing of approvals for certain
    stock options we granted, (iii) deferring or reversing
    revenue for certain customer orders in the Asia-Pacific region,
    and (iv) reversing an income tax reserve that was
    unwarranted when established. Our restatement also includes an
    adjustment to correct our third quarter 2007 financial
    statements for a $10.4 million overstatement of reported
    net income, which resulted from tax errors detected in the
    fourth quarter of 2007 relating primarily to our release in the
    third quarter of a substantial portion of the valuation
    allowance for our U.S. net deferred tax assets.

Summary
    of the Restatement Effects

A summary of the cumulative revenue and net income effects of
    the restatement on our consolidated financial statements is as
    follows:

Nine months

ended

Year ended September 30,

June 30, 2007





Prior Years

Total

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue, as previously reported

$

674,859

$

854,918

$

720,719

$

660,029

$

671,940

Adjustments

(232

)

(6,935

)

(12,744

)

(8,361

)

(2,487

)

$

(10,506

)

$

(41,265

)

Revenue, as restated

$

674,627

$

847,983

$

707,975

$

651,668

$

669,453

Net income (loss), as previously reported

$

119,780

$

60,866

$

83,592

$

34,813

$

(98,280

)

Adjustments

(6,763

)

(4,062

)

(10,405

)

(3,228

)

(2,907

)

$

(12,927

)

$

(40,292

)

Net income (loss), as restated

$

113,017

$

56,804

$

73,187

$

31,585

$

(101,187

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Diluted, as previously reported

$

1.02

$

0.54

$

0.75

$

0.32

$

(0.93

)

Adjustments

(0.06

)

(0.04

)

(0.10

)

(0.03

)

(0.03

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Diluted, as restated

$

0.96

$

0.50

$

0.65

$

0.29

$

(0.96

)

The adjustments made as a result of the restatement are more
    fully described in Note B to our consolidated financial
    statements included in “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” in Item 8 of this

Form 10-K.

All amounts in this

Form 10-K

referenced to September 30, 2006 and 2005 reflect the
    balances and amounts on a restated basis. Also, comparisons of
    2006 and 2005 to any other years in discussions contained in
    this

Form 10-K

have been revised from those included in our Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for 2006 as necessary to reflect the restated information.

ii

PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

ANNUAL
    REPORT ON

FORM 10-K

FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007

Table of
    Contents


Forward-Looking
    Statements

Statements in this Annual Report about our anticipated
    financial results and growth, as well as about the development
    of our products and markets, are forward-looking statements that
    are based on our current plans and assumptions. Important
    information about the factors that may cause our actual results
    to differ materially from these statements is discussed in
    Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and generally throughout
    this report.

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to a year reflect
    our fiscal year that ends on September 30.

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

Overview

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) develops, markets and
    supports product lifecycle management (PLM) software solutions
    and related services that help companies improve their processes
    for developing physical and information products. Our software
    solutions help customers decrease time to market, improve
    product quality, increase innovation and reduce product
    development cost.

The PLM market encompasses the mechanical computer-aided design,
    manufacturing and engineering (CAD, CAM and CAE) market and the
    collaboration and product data management (PDM) solutions
    market, as well as many previously isolated markets that address
    various phases of a product’s lifecycle. These include:

•

component and supplier management,

•

visualization and digital mockup,

•

enterprise application integration,

•

program and project management,

•

after-market service and portfolio management, requirements
    management, customer needs management, manufacturing planning,
    and technical and marketing publications.

Our software solutions include:

•

a suite of mechanical computer-aided design, engineering
    calculation, and XML-based document authoring tools (our desktop
    solutions); and

•

a range of Internet-based collaboration, content and process
    management, and publishing technologies (our enterprise
    solutions).

These software solutions enable companies to:

•

create

digital product content as represented by product
    designs and component-based documents (collectively,
    “digital products”);

•

collaborate

globally on the development of content with
    cross-functional teams consisting of members within an
    organization and from the extended enterprise;

•

control

content and automate processes over the course of
    a product’s lifecycle;

•

configure

content to match products and services; and

•

communicate

relevant product information across the
    extended enterprise and to customers through multiple channels
    using dynamic publications.

Our PLM solutions suite addresses significant challenges that
    companies, and in particular manufacturing companies, face in
    their product and documentation development processes. These
    include:

•

more frequent change,

•

heterogeneity of systems,

•

regulatory compliance,

•

increased communication inside and outside the manufacturing
    enterprise to support growing globalization and outsourcing of
    development activities,



•

increasingly transparent supply chains, and

•

growing services and maintenance strategies.

Our PLM software solutions suite provides our customers with a
    product development system that permits
    individuals—regardless of their roles in the
    commercialization of a product, the computer-based tools they
    use, or their location geographically or in the supply
    chain—to participate in the product development process. We
    have devoted significant resources to developing our enterprise
    solutions and integrating them with our design software. We
    continue to integrate our products more tightly and make them
    easier to deploy. We believe this will create significant added
    value for our customers.

An extension of our PLM solutions, our publishing solutions
    enable our customers to address significant inefficiencies in
    cross-functional or complex documentation development processes.
    Today, most companies use traditional desktop publishing tools
    that involve a significant amount of manual work to maintain
    accurate documentation. This causes considerable additional work
    where multiple authors contribute to the development of content,
    content changes frequently, multiple organizations within a
    company have specialized requirements but use similar content,
    or regulatory compliance requires standardization across all
    information outputs. Our publishing solutions allow customers to
    create compound documents from reusable content components,
    manage the content and processes to enable teams to work
    together, and configure and publish the information for a
    variety of uses and audiences in multiple formats.

Our solutions are complemented by our experienced services and
    technical support organizations, as well as resellers and other
    strategic partners. Our services and technical support
    organizations provide training, consulting, implementation and
    support services to customers worldwide. Our resellers
    supplement our direct sales force to provide greater geographic
    and small account coverage, primarily for our desktop solutions.
    Our strategic partners provide complementary product

and/or

service offerings.

Acquisitions

A key element of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses
    that complement our product development system.

We have completed a number of strategic acquisitions over the
    past year. Additionally, we recently announced that we have
    entered into an agreement to purchase all of the outstanding
    shares of CoCreate Software GmbH, a provider of PLM and CAD
    modeling solutions, for approximately $250 million, net of
    cash acquired and excluding transaction fees. CoCreate is a
    privately held company based in Sindelfingen, Germany with
    revenue of approximately $75 million over the last twelve
    months and 280 employees. Completion of the acquisition is
    subject to customary conditions. The acquisition of CoCreate is
    expected to close during the first quarter of 2008. Below is a
    summary of the strategic transactions we have completed in the
    past year.

Company

Technology

Date Acquired

Logistics Business Systems Limited

Integrated logistics support software

First Quarter 2008

NC Graphics Ltd.

CAM software for machining applications

Third Quarter 2007

ITEDO Software GmbH and ITEDO Software LLC

Technical illustrations software

First Quarter 2007

In the first quarter of 2008, PTC acquired Logistics Business
    Systems (LBS), a provider of integrated logistics support
    solutions for the aerospace and defense and civil aviation
    industries, for approximately $16 million in cash. LBS was
    a privately held company based in Preston, UK, with
    approximately $5 million in annual revenue and
    approximately 45 employees. This acquisition strengthens
    PTC’s publishing solutions because LBS solutions for
    provisioning, training and

e-learning,

and logistics support analysis help customers deliver product
    support information that is compliant with industry standards
    S1000D, S2000M and SCORM. The combination of PTC and LBS will
    facilitate the reuse of both product design and configuration
    data such as CAD files, bills of material, change management
    information and logistics information.

Our acquisition of NC Graphics enables us to provide a more
    comprehensive suite of computer-aided manufacturing solutions
    for design and machining of molds, dies, prototypes, and other
    high-speed precision machining applications. We now market and
    sell the NC Graphics technology as
    Pro/TOOLMAKER

tm

,
    offered either stand-alone, or as an optional module of our
    Pro/ENGINEER

®

software. NC Graphics had approximately 15 employees,
    primarily in the UK, and approximately $3 million in annual
    revenue.

Our acquisition of ITEDO Software GmbH and ITEDO Software LLC
    (together, ITEDO), enables us to provide software solutions for
    creating and maintaining technical illustrations to customers in
    multiple manufacturing markets such as automotive, aerospace and
    defense, and industrial equipment. The ITEDO solutions are now
    an integral part of our product development system and branded
    as part of the
    Arbortext

®

product family. They help us complete our solution for creating,
    managing and publishing text and graphical content for technical
    publications. ITEDO had approximately 30 employees,
    primarily in Germany, and generated revenue of approximately
    $5 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006.



Our
    Principal Products and Services

Our product strategy is to use a common architecture to align
    our desktop solutions and our enterprise solutions. We
    capitalize on product synergies to offer integral product
    development solutions.

Our comprehensive product development system enables our
    customers to improve their product development processes. These
    processes involve the entire enterprise and extend to supplier,
    partner and customer participants. Our solutions work together
    in a cohesive system, reducing complexity for our customers. Our
    product development system enables our customers to create
    digital product information, collaborate internally and
    externally, control content and automate processes, manage
    product configurations and communicate product information to
    people and systems across the extended enterprise and design
    chain. These capabilities are enabled by a system architecture
    that is built to address the needs of the distributed product
    development environment. Our product development system
    architecture is:

•

integral,

sharing a common database schema, common
    business objects and seamless user interface;

•

Internet-based

, enabling our product development system
    to deploy across existing Intranet and Internet infrastructures
    to accommodate a distributed value chain; and

•

interoperable

, integrating with other systems using
    standard protocols and integration approaches.

These same principles apply to our dynamic publishing system,
    allowing us to deliver the benefits of a system-based approach
    to all of our customers. We describe our integral portfolio of
    Desktop Solutions and Enterprise Solutions in more detail below.

DESKTOP
    SOLUTIONS

Our Desktop Solutions include our integrated CAD/CAM/CAE
    software as well as document authoring tools. Our principal
    Desktop Solutions are described below.

Pro/ENGINEER

®

is a family of three-dimensional product design solution based
    on a parametric, feature-based solid modeler that enables
    changes made during the design process to be associatively
    updated throughout the design. Designers can use Pro/ENGINEER
    for detailed design (CAD), manufacturing/production (CAM), and
    simulation/analysis (CAE), as well as for exchanging CAD data
    with a multitude of sources and in varied standard formats,
    allowing them to create more innovative, differentiated and
    functional products quickly and easily. Pro/ENGINEER can improve
    product quality and reduce time to market by enabling end users
    to evaluate multiple design alternatives and to share data with
    bi-directional associativity.

Mathcad

®

is an engineering calculation software solution that combines a
    computational engine, accessed through conventional math
    notation, with a full-featured word processor and graphing
    tools. Mathcad allows our customers to determine their
    Pro/ENGINEER designs and predict the behavior of a Pro/ENGINEER
    model, which can then be validated using our Pro/ENGINEER CAE
    solutions. This approach can help our customers speed time to
    market by significantly reducing the number of iterations
    necessary to complete a design. In addition, when combined with
    our Windchill solutions, the valuable intellectual property
    captured in Mathcad can be managed and shared securely with
    others for reuse and regulatory compliance.

Arbortext

®

desktop offerings Arbortext
    Editor

tm

and Arbortext
    IsoDraw

®

are designed to help customers speed time to market, improve
    documentation accuracy and lower publishing costs:

•

Arbortext Editor is an XML-based authoring tool used to create
    dynamic content for multiple output types. Arbortext Editor
    looks and works like familiar word processing software but is
    able to create reusable content components, which can be
    aggregated into dynamic, customized publications. With Arbortext
    Editor, documents can be created by multiple contributors and
    the document components are reusable. Consequently, when changes
    to content are made, those changes will be reflected wherever
    that content is used.

•

Arbortext
    IsoDraw

®

is a technical illustration solution that enables companies to
    create both 2D and 3D technical illustrations and animations
    from scratch or from existing CAD data. Because customers use
    the solution to create technical illustrations from existing CAD
    data, they can develop technical publications and engineering
    designs concurrently, link technical illustrations and
    animations to engineering designs, and automatically recreate
    both illustrations and animations when CAD files change through
    direct integration with Pro/ENGINEER or transfer in multiple
    supported formats. Illustrations and animations created using
    Arbortext IsoDraw can be embedded in the Arbortext documents
    resulting in rich technical publications.

ENTERPRISE
    SOLUTIONS

Our suite of Windchill, Arbortext and ProductView solutions is
    designed to help companies manage the process of developing
    products and documentation across an extended enterprise. The
    products in our enterprise solutions category help customers
    leverage product development content not only for the
    engineering processes, but also for use in other processes, such
    as



manufacturing, procurement, technical publications and after
    market services. With our enterprise solutions, our customers
    can improve time to market, increase the number of new products
    they introduce, improve product quality, reduce product cost,
    reduce development cost, and improve content reuse.

Our Enterprise Solutions include:

Windchill

®

is a family of sophisticated, Internet-based content and process
    management solutions for managing complex data and
    relationships, processes and publications, including:

•

Windchill
    PDMLink

®

,
    a product content management solution that is used to control
    information by facilitating data accessibility and automating
    and managing the product development process throughout the life
    of a product. Windchill PDMLink is fluent with workgroup
    level CAD content management as well as complete
    enterprise-wide product content management and enables document
    management, change management and configuration management.
    Optional modules of Windchill PDMLink include Windchill
    MPMLink

tm

,
    which enables companies to concurrently develop manufacturing
    process plans as they develop products, Windchill
    PartsLink

®

Classification and Reuse, which enables companies to organize
    internal design libraries to enable part reuse, and Windchill
    Supplier Management, which enables companies to develop approved
    manufacturer and vendor lists.

•

Windchill
    ProjectLink

tm

,
    a collaborative project management solution that enables
    companies (including their employees, partners, suppliers and
    customers) to work together on projects through Internet-based
    compartmentalized workspaces. Windchill ProjectLink also has
    capabilities for project plan development, milestone and
    deliverable tracking, activity assignment and management, and
    on-line discussion forums.

•

Pro/INTRALINK

®

,
    a Windchill-based Pro/ENGINEER workgroup data management
    solution that provides centralized vaulting and revision control
    of Pro/ENGINEER models, relationships, and capabilities for
    improved information security and accuracy. A subset of the
    capabilities found in Windchill PDMLink, Pro/INTRALINK is used
    for Pro/ENGINEER-only data management within the engineering
    department.

Arbortext

®

enterprise offerings enable our customers to manage complex
    information assets and to streamline their document and
    publishing processes. Optimized for managing XML documents,
    authored using Arbortext these solutions support collaboration
    of geographically dispersed teams, and manage critical processes
    such as configuration management and release of publications.
    The solutions consist of a Windchill-based content and
    configuration management system that assembles
    Arbortext-authored XML and SGML content components and
    automatically publishes audience-specific content in both print
    and electronic forms, with high-quality layout and formatting.

ProductView

tm

solutions enable enterprise-wide visualization, verification,
    annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product
    development data formats including MCAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and
    documents. This solution provides internal and external
    participants in the process with lightweight access to product
    designs and related data without requiring the original
    authoring tool.

SERVICES

Maintenance
    Services

We offer maintenance support plans for our software products.
    Participating customers receive periodic software updates and
    new releases. Active maintenance plan customers also have direct
    access to our global technical support team of certified
    engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service
    support tools that allow our customers access to an extensive
    amount of technical support information.

Consulting
    and Training Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services
    through our services organization, as well as through
    third-party resellers and other strategic partners. These
    services enable our customers to adopt and use our solutions
    more effectively.

Geographic
    and Segment Information

Financial information about our international and domestic
    operations, including by segment and principal products, may be
    found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements” which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.



Product
    Development

To remain competitive, we must provide our customers with new
    and innovative software solutions. Accordingly, we continue to
    invest in research and development, and we look for
    opportunities to acquire new technologies suited to our
    customers’ needs. We must also efficiently manage our
    development resources to ensure the appropriate balance among
    product lines, based on both product development plans and
    customer demand.

The modular structure of our software code helps us to rapidly
    develop new design products. This structure enables functional
    capabilities of existing products to be used in new software
    applications or modules, thereby reducing the amount of new code
    required to develop additional products. Much of our Enterprise
    Solutions technology is Internet-centric, Java-based,
    object-oriented software and our products depend on these
    evolving technologies. We also license certain technologies from
    third parties to augment the functionality of our products. We
    generally pay these third parties either periodic royalties or
    fixed fees for the use of their technologies and rely on them
    for development and other support. We continually review the
    associated costs, development resource savings, support levels,
    and, if applicable, experience with the third party to determine
    whether the use of such technologies is beneficial.

Over the past few years, we have focused much of our research
    and development on integrating our products into a unified
    product development system. This strategy is supported by
    changes we have made to both our product planning and product
    testing processes to ensure that the products work together in a
    cohesive system across specific customer business processes.

We also work closely with our customers to define improvements
    and enhancements to our products. Customers become involved
    early in the software design process to help validate
    feasibility and to provide feedback on functionality. In
    addition, we maintain software and hardware partner programs
    designed to provide partners with access to our products and
    with the mechanisms and environment to facilitate the
    integration of complementary products with our product lines. By
    using our software development toolkits, partners can build
    tightly integrated solutions that satisfy the various
    requirements of our customers.

Our research and development expenses were $162.4 million
    in 2007, $147.0 million in 2006 and $118.3 million in
    2005. Additional information about our research and development
    expenditures may be found in Item 7.
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
    Operations—Costs and Expenses—Research and
    Development.”

Sales and
    Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services
    distributed directly by our sales force to our end-user
    customers. We also offer products through third-party
    distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on large accounts,
    while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of
    covering the small- and medium-size business market.

Within our direct sales force, we have both strategic accounts
    and general business accounts units. The strategic accounts unit
    is further divided into vertical groups, such as aerospace and
    defense, automotive, consumer products, electronics and high
    technology, industrial products and life sciences. This vertical
    orientation is mirrored in our services delivery organization
    and, increasingly, in the products we deliver to strategic
    accounts. The general business account unit is organized
    geographically. In addition, we continue to broaden our indirect
    distribution channel through alliances with third-party
    resellers and other strategic partners who provide products

and/or

services that complement our offerings. Our resellers distribute
    our desktop solutions, including Pro/ENGINEER, and provide
    related services throughout North America, Europe and parts of
    Asia-Pacific; our other strategic partners complement our
    product development system with ancillary offerings. We also
    authorize select resellers to distribute our Windchill solutions
    to the small- and medium-size business market.

Competition

We compete primarily in the PLM market, including the
    CAD/CAM/CAE market. We compete with a number of companies that
    offer solutions that address specific functional areas covered
    by our solutions, including: Dassault Systemes SA and Siemens AG
    (as a result of its acquisition of UGS Corp in 2007) for
    traditional desktop solutions, PDM solutions, manufacturing
    planning solutions and visualization and digital

mock-up

solutions; and Oracle Corporation (as a result of its
    acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in 2007) for PDM
    solutions. In addition, we compete with SAP AG, which has
    entered the PLM market and offers a solution that controls
    product data within the larger framework of its Enterprise
    Resource Planning solution. We believe our PLM solutions are
    more specifically targeted toward the product development
    processes within manufacturing companies and offer broader and
    deeper functionality in those processes.

We compete with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.’s
    Inventor, Siemens AG’s Solid Edge and Dassault
    Systemes’ SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing
    customers. We also compete with EMC Documentum, IBM’s
    FileNet, OpenText, Adobe Framemaker, and the Microsoft Office
    suite.



Proprietary
    Rights

Our software products and our trademarks, including our company
    names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our
    intellectual property rights in these items by relying on
    copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards,
    including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on
    disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with
    other parties.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties
    described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below.
    You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this
    section by reference.

PTC, the PTC Logo, Parametric Technology Corporation, The
    Product Development Company, Create Collaborate Control
    Configure Communicate, Pro/ENGINEER, Wildfire, Pro/INTRALINK,
    Windchill, Windchill PDMLink, Windchill ProjectLink, Windchill
    PartsLink, Windchill MPMLink, ProductView, Arbortext, Arbortext
    IsoDraw, Arbortext IsoView, Mathcad and all product names in the
    PTC product family are trademarks or registered trademarks of
    PTC or our subsidiaries in the United States

and/or

other
    countries.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after
    acceptance of a customer order. A high percentage of our license
    revenue historically has been generated in the third month of
    each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated
    in the later part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist
    at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been
    recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any
    particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 2007, we had 4,449 employees,
    including 1,166 in sales and marketing; 1,271 in customer
    support, training and consulting; 465 in general and
    administration; and 1,547 in product development. Of these
    employees, 1,859 were located in the United States and 2,590
    were located outside the United States.

Website
    Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com
    the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
    electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC:
    our Annual Report on

Form 10-K;

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q;

our Current Reports on

Form 8-K;

and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and
    Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5
    also are available on our website. The reference to our website
    is not intended to incorporate information on our website into
    this document by reference.

Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also is available on our
    website. Additional information about this code and amendments
    and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III,
    Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by
    reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Other
    Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is
    headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.

ITEM 1A.

Risk
    Factors

The following are important factors we have identified that
    could affect our future results. You should consider them
    carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements contained
    in this Annual Report and otherwise made by us or on our behalf
    because these factors could cause actual results and conditions
    to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking
    statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we
    face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to
    us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition

and/or

operating results.



I.

Operational
    Considerations

Our
    operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making our
    revenue and operating results difficult to
    predict.

Our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated and
    are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of
    factors including the following:

•

a high percentage of our revenue has historically been generated
    in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to
    complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause
    us to fall short of our revenue targets;

•

a growing percentage of our revenue comes from our enterprise
    solutions, which tend to be sold in larger deals that are less
    predictable;

•

our operating expenses are based on expected revenues and any
    failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall
    short of our earnings targets as well;

•

our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to
    quarter, creating variability in our operating margins;

•

the outsourcing of our software distribution operations to
    third-party vendors may reduce our ability to undertake
    corrective measures or alternative operations in the event
    shipping systems or processes are interrupted or are hampered
    due to conditions beyond our or our vendor’s control at the
    end of any particular quarter;

•

because a significant portion of our revenue is in foreign
    currency and a significant portion of our expense structure is
    located internationally major shifts in foreign currency
    exchange rates could impact our reported revenue

and/or

expenses; and

•

we may incur expenses in connection with our investigation,
    defense or settlement of legal actions we are defending that
    would increase our operating expenses for the quarter in which
    those expenses are incurred.

Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict
    prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm
    or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for
    a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure
    to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could
    adversely impact the market price of our stock.

We may
    be adversely affected by a decline in demand for PLM
    solutions.

We currently derive our license and service revenues
    predominantly from our integrated PLM software products and
    services and we expect this to continue into the future. As a
    result, factors affecting the demand for PLM software solutions
    or pricing pressures on this single category could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

We
    depend on sales within the manufacturing market.

A large amount of our revenues are related to sales to customers
    in the manufacturing sector. A decline in general economic or
    business conditions or a decline in spending in this sector
    could cause customers to reduce or defer spending on information
    technology improvements, which would cause our revenue and
    earnings to decrease or to grow more slowly. Furthermore,
    declines in license sales may adversely affect the size of our
    installed base and our level of service revenue.

Because
    a substantial portion of our sales are to existing customers and
    sales to new customers often rely on customer references, our
    business could be adversely affected if those customers were to
    become dissatisfied with our products and/or
    services.

Many of our sales are follow-on sales to existing customers who
    invest in our product development system. If a significant
    number of customers were to become dissatisfied with our
    products or services or otherwise elected to adopt either
    competing solutions or a competitive product development system,
    we could lose those follow-on sales, which would adversely
    affect our revenues. In addition, we could lose an important
    source of references, which could adversely impact our ability
    to obtain new customers. Finally, a decrease in the size of our
    installed base could adversely affect both our license revenues
    and our service revenues.

Our cost structure is relatively fixed in the short term,
    which makes it difficult to reduce our expenses quickly in
    response to declines in revenue or revenue growth.

We make expenditures to support our revenue growth in advance of
    achieving the expected revenue. Our expenses associated with
    headcount and facilities can be difficult to reduce quickly due
    to the nature of those items. If revenue does not grow at the
    rate we expect or if it declines, our expenses may constitute a
    larger percentage of our operating budget than we planned, which
    would adversely affect our profitability.



We are
    relocating some of our business functions to new locations,
    which could adversely affect our operations.

As part of our effort to reduce our operating costs and to
    increase our presence in strategic regions, we are relocating
    some of our business functions to new locations, including
    China. Transitioning those functions to those locations involves
    terminating employees in the location from which the business
    function is moved, which will cause us to incur restructuring
    costs and may cause disruption in those business functions as
    new personnel are hired and trained. Additionally, because we do
    not have significant operating experience in some of these
    countries, it may take us longer to realize the benefits we
    expect from relocating those functions, if at all.

We use
    third parties, in addition to our direct sales force, for the
    distribution and implementation of our software solutions, which
    makes it more difficult to manage customer
    relationships.

We have entered into relationships with groups of geographically
    dispersed resellers and other strategic partners to promote,
    sell

and/or

implement our products, which can reduce our control over the
    sales process and the delivery of services to our customers. Our
    ability to distribute and implement our software solutions
    through third parties will depend on:

•

our ability to enter into agreements with appropriate third
    parties that can deliver our products

and/or

services in appropriate markets;

•

the third party’s ability to learn, promote and implement
    our products;

•

our ability to efficiently manage our sales channels by
    effectively coordinating and managing joint activities
    (including sales, marketing, implementation, support and
    customer service); and

•

our ability to optimize our sales and services coverage and
    productivity through, among other means, effective use and
    management of our internal resources in combination with our
    resellers and other strategic partners, including, when
    appropriate, making measured increases to our internal resources
    and investing in our reseller channel and other strategic
    partners.

Our
    financial condition could be adversely affected if significant
    errors or defects are found in our software.

Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other
    performance problems when first introduced or when new versions
    or enhancements are released as these enhanced versions contain
    additional programming code and third party sourced
    functionality that must work across our large product suite. If
    errors or defects are discovered in our current or future
    products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner,
    or provide an adequate response to our customers. We may
    therefore need to expend significant financial, technical and
    management resources, or divert some of our development
    resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects.

Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products
    may also result in the loss of, or delay in, the market
    acceptance of our products or postponement of product releases
    or customer deployments. Such difficulties could also cause us
    to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers
    could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose
    new business opportunities.

We may
    be unable to successfully acquire and integrate additional
    strategic businesses and any additional businesses we acquire
    may not achieve the revenue and earnings we
    anticipated.

The success of our long-term strategic plan depends in part on
    our ability to acquire strategic businesses

and/or

technologies. If we are unable to identify and complete such
    acquisitions, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings
    targets. If the businesses

and/or

technologies we acquire do not generate the revenue and earnings
    we expect or if we are unable to effectively integrate the
    acquired technology into our products, we may not achieve our
    revenue or earnings targets.

In addition, business combinations involve a number of factors
    that affect operations and operating results, including:

•

diversion of management’s attention;

•

potential loss of key personnel;

•

entry into unfamiliar markets, which creates new product, sales,
    services and support requirements;

•

possible assumption of unanticipated legal or financial
    liabilities;

•

possibly incurring debt to finance an acquisition;

•

unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the
    acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of
    the acquired entity;



•

possible impairment of acquired intangible assets, including
    goodwill; and

•

dilution to our earnings per share if we were to issue stock as
    consideration.

As a result, we may fail to successfully integrate and manage
    businesses and technologies that we may acquire without
    incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that
    could negatively impact our results of operations. If our
    short-term liquidity declines or we are forced to divert
    attention from other initiatives due to resource constraints in
    connection with acquisition-related activity, our ability to
    implement other strategic initiatives or make investments in our
    operational infrastructure could be impaired.

We are
    dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our product
    development or our sales efforts.

Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain
    highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel.

Our product development efforts are directly affected by the
    abilities of our technical personnel. Competition for such
    highly skilled technical personnel in our industry is intense.
    This competition is even greater in offshore regions where we
    have shifted certain research and development resources and
    where concerted efforts to solicit our employees are not
    uncommon. If we are unable to attract and retain technical
    personnel with the requisite skills, our product development
    efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our
    revenues and profitability.

Our sales efforts rely on having a sufficient number of sales
    representatives with the skills and knowledge necessary to sell
    our products, including an ability to educate our customers
    about our products in order to create and meet demand for our
    products. If we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel
    with the requisite expertise, our sales and revenue could be
    adversely affected.

We
    must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace
    with changing technology and address our customers’ needs,
    and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our
    products.

We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace
    with changes in computer software, hardware and database
    technology and emerging Internet standards, and to meet evolving
    customer requirements. Our ability to remain competitive will
    depend on our ability to:

•

enhance our current offerings and develop new products and
    services that keep pace with technological developments through:

•

internal research and development and quality assurance programs,

•

acquisition of technology, and

•

strategic partnerships;

•

anticipate and meet evolving customer requirements, especially
    ease-of-use and interoperability;

•

adequately utilize our development resources; and

•

license appropriate technology from third parties for inclusion
    in our products.

Also, as is common in the computer software industry, we may
    from time to time experience delays in our product development
    efforts. Any such delays could cause us to incorrectly predict
    the fiscal quarter in which we will realize revenue from the
    licensing and shipment of the new or enhanced products and give
    our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing
    products.

We
    depend on sales from outside the United States that could be
    adversely affected by changes in international
    markets.

A significant portion of our business comes from outside the
    United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely
    affected by economic downturns in Europe or the Asia-Pacific
    region. Other risks associated with international business
    include:

•

regulatory practices and tariffs;

•

staffing and managing international operations, including the
    difficulties in providing cost-effective, incentive based
    compensation to attract skilled workers;

•

longer collection cycles in certain areas;

•

changes in tax and other laws; and

•

greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights.



At
    times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which
    may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions and
    could adversely affect our revenues if we ceased making these
    terms available.

We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in
    connection with transactions we have completed with them.
    Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our
    customers’ purchasing decisions but may hurt our cash flows
    in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment
    terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer
    the amount they spend on our products and services from the
    amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms
    were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or
    revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods or than we
    expect.

We may
    be unable to adequately protect our proprietary
    rights.

Our software products and our trademarks, including our company
    names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our
    intellectual property rights in these items by relying on
    copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards,
    including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on
    disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with
    other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant
    jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products
    and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently
    encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our
    software solutions. If our measures to protect our intellectual
    property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights,
    which could reduce our competitiveness and harm our business.

Intellectual
    property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which
    could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on
    our use of the claimed intellectual property.

The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation
    regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property
    rights. While we have not had any significant claims of this
    type asserted against us, such claims could be asserted against
    us in the future. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could
    result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of
    our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that
    we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not
    prevail, we could be prevented from using that intellectual
    property or required to enter into royalty or licensing
    agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to
    us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our
    proprietary information, some of our products contain technology
    developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise
    be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these
    third-party technologies.

II.

Product
    Related Considerations

Competition
    is increasing, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce
    our market share.

The market for our PLM software solutions is rapidly changing
    and increasingly competitive. We expect competition to
    intensify, which could result in price reductions for our
    products and services, reduced gross margins and loss of market
    share. Our primary competition comes from:

•

larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who may
    seek to extend the functionality of their products to encompass
    PLM or who may develop

and/or

purchase PLM technology; and

•

other vendors of engineering information management software.

In addition, analysts expect future consolidation within the
    software industry, which could give rise to new competitors. To
    compete effectively in this evolving industry, we must:

•

successfully develop solutions that are technologically superior
    to those of our competitors;

•

effectively demonstrate the value proposition offered by our
    solutions, including return on investment and value
    creation; and

•

overcome the perception, based on our historical roots, that we
    are solely a mechanical computer-aided design (MCAD) company.

Increasing
    competition in the computer-aided design marketplace may reduce
    our revenues.

A large portion of our revenues are currently derived from our
    computer-aided design solutions and there are an increasing
    number of competitive design products, some of which emphasize
    lower price points and ease of use compared to the more robust
    functionality of our solutions. This increased competition makes
    attracting new customers more difficult. In addition, some
    competitive products have reached a level of functionality
    whereby product differentiation is less likely, in and of
    itself, to dislodge incumbent design systems, given the
    training, data conversion and other startup costs associated
    with system replacement. Although Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire, which
    focuses on PLM interoperability and ease of use, is designed to
    address these competitive



pressures, increased competition and further market acceptance
    of competitive products could have a negative effect on pricing
    and revenue for our products, which could have a material
    adverse affect on our results.

In addition, even though our design software is capable of
    performing on a variety of platforms as compared to several of
    our competitors whose products focus on single platform
    applications (particularly Windows-based platforms), we may be
    unable to create a competitive advantage by offering multiple
    platform applications.

Growth
    in the computer-aided design solutions industry has
    slowed.

Growth in certain segments of the computer-aided design
    solutions industry has slowed and, coupled with decreased
    functional differentiation among flexible engineering tools, may
    adversely affect our ability to penetrate the market for new
    customers and capture market share. Over the long term, we
    believe our emphasis on PLM solutions will allow us to
    differentiate our CAD/CAM/CAE solutions from the competition and
    to increase sales of our enterprise solutions. However, the
    strategy may not be successful or may take longer than we
    expect. Our operating results could be materially adversely
    affected if these assumptions are incorrect.

Our
    assumptions about the Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) market
    opportunity may be wrong.

We have identified PLM as a market opportunity for us and have
    devoted significant resources toward capitalizing on that
    opportunity. We offer a suite of PLM solutions and related
    services targeted at this market based on our enterprise
    solutions, together with our desktop solutions. This suite
    includes software and services that use Internet technologies to
    enable our customers’ employees, suppliers and customers to
    collaboratively develop, build, distribute and manage products
    throughout their entire lifecycle. Because the market for
    software products that enable companies to collaborate on
    product information on an enterprise-wide level is emerging, we
    cannot be sure of the size of this market, whether it will grow,
    whether companies will elect to use our products or acquire PLM
    solutions from other sources, or forego PLM initiatives
    altogether.

In addition, companies that have already invested substantial
    resources in other methods of sharing product information in the
    design-through-manufacture process may be reluctant to adopt a
    new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their
    existing systems or methods. We expect that we will continue to
    need to educate prospective customers about the uses and
    benefits of our products. Demand for and market acceptance of
    our products will be affected by the success of those efforts.

If we
    are unable to successfully differentiate our products from those
    of our competitors, we may be unable to preserve or increase our
    market share.

We rely on the integral nature of our offerings as a competitive
    differentiator. Some of our competitors have recently announced
    or taken steps to make their products integrated. If our
    competitors succeed in their efforts, or convince customers that
    they will be successful in their efforts, our ability to use the
    integral nature of our offerings as a competitive differentiator
    will be diminished, which could adversely affect our ability to
    retain or increase our market share.

Our
    solutions must meet customer expectations to be
    successful.

The success of our PLM strategy will depend in large part on the
    ability of our solutions to meet customer expectations,
    especially with respect to:

•

return on investment and value creation;

•

ease and rapidity of installation;

•

integration of our customers’ and their partners’
    existing computer systems and software programs;

•

ease of use;

•

full capability, functionality and performance;

•

ability to support a large, diverse and geographically dispersed
    user base, including the ability to support global product
    development programs; and

•

quality and efficiency of the services performed by us and our
    partners relating to implementation and configuration.

Our opportunity in the small- and medium-size business market
    when manufacturers migrate from two-dimensional design tools to
    entry-level three-dimensional design tools depends in large part
    on our ability to educate consumers on the benefits and ease of
    use of our products. Likewise with larger strategic customers,
    we must differentiate our products’ capabilities from those
    of our competitors, including larger companies with established
    enterprise-wide relationships with these customers.



If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers
    may stop their adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of
    potential additional sales, and we may be unable to attract new
    customers for our solutions.

III.
    Other Considerations

We are
    currently defending a lawsuit seeking substantial damages in
    which we could be liable.

On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation
    (“GECL”) filed a lawsuit against us. The lawsuit
    alleges that GECL was fraudulently induced to provide over
    $60 million in financing on behalf of Toshiba Corporation
    for purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC
    products, during the period from 2003 to 2006. GECL claims that
    PTC participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should
    have been aware of the scheme and made negligent
    misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue
    undetected. All of the alleged transactions occurred in Japan.
    GECL claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times
    that amount plus attorneys’ fees. In connection with our
    restatement of revenue associated with the Toshiba transactions
    described in Note B to our consolidated financial
    statements, approximately $41 million of revenue was
    deferred and classified as Customer Advances in our consolidated
    balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded until the
    rights and obligations of the several companies connected with
    the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the extent that
    matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce Customer
    Advances and record revenue or other income at that time. We
    have not accrued any other liability for this matter as of
    September 30, 2007.

We dispute GECL’s claims and intend to defend this action
    vigorously. If GECL were to prevail in the litigation, we could
    be liable for damages to GECL, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition or results of operations.

We
    have identified a material weakness in our internal control over
    financial reporting that, until remediated, could result in a
    material misstatement in our financial statements.

In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial
    statements as of and for the year ended September 30, 2007,
    we identified a material weakness in our internal control over
    financial reporting because we failed to maintain effective
    controls over the accounting for income taxes. We are in the
    process of addressing and remediating this material weakness,
    but this process will take some time. Accordingly, until we
    remediate this weakness, this weakness could result in a
    misstatement of our tax-related accounts that would result in a
    material misstatement to our interim or annual consolidated
    financial statements. If we are unable to effectively remediate
    this material weakness and to conclude that our internal control
    over financial reporting is effective in any future period, we
    could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness
    of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on
    our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. In
    addition, we will incur costs and expenses, including the hiring
    of additional personnel and the retention of professional
    advisors, in connection with remediating this material weakness.

We
    have a revolving credit facility and have borrowed funds under
    that facility.

We recently announced that we have entered into an agreement to
    purchase all of the outstanding shares of CoCreate Software
    GmbH, a provider of PLM and CAD modeling solutions, for
    approximately $250 million, net of cash acquired and
    excluding transaction fees. In connection with this acquisition,
    we borrowed approximately $220 million under our revolving
    credit facility. In addition, we may undertake additional
    borrowings against the credit facility in the future to support
    our operations, including additional strategic acquisitions. For
    any such borrowing we will incur periodic payment obligations.
    In addition, we are required to comply with the required
    financial and operating covenants, which could limit our ability
    to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our
    failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our
    payment obligations could result in an event of default which,
    if not cured or waived, would result in all amounts outstanding,
    including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming
    immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient working
    capital or liquidity to satisfy our repayment obligations in the
    event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if
    we are not in compliance with the financial and operating
    covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable
    to borrow funds or to borrow additional funds.

Our
    stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to
    resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable

to you.

Market prices for securities of software companies are generally
    volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated
    or disproportionate to the operating performance of these
    companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks,
    and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the
    public’s perception of the prospects of software companies,
    or of PTC or the PLM market generally, could depress our stock
    price regardless of our results.

Also, traditionally, a large percentage of our common stock has
    been held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our
    common stock by these institutional investors could have a
    significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more



information about those investors, please see our proxy
    statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of
    stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with
    respect to our common stock.

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.

ITEM 2.

Properties

We currently lease 113 offices used in operations in the United
    States and internationally through our

non-U.S. subsidiaries,

predominately as sales

and/or

support offices and for research and development work. Of our
    total of approximately 1,281,000 square feet of leased
    facilities used in operations, approximately 583,000 square
    feet are located in the U.S., including 329,000 square feet
    of our headquarters facility located in Needham, Massachusetts.
    The lease for our headquarters began in December 2000 and
    expires in December 2012, subject to certain renewal rights. We
    also lease space comprising approximately 401,000 square
    feet, which is not used for our current operations and is
    primarily subleased to third parties. As described in
    Notes C and H of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements,” lease commitments on unused facilities in
    excess of expected sublease income have been included in our
    restructuring provisions. We continue to engage in subleasing
    and early lease termination initiatives to employ alternate uses
    for these excess facilities. We believe that our facilities are
    adequate for our present needs.

ITEM 3.

Legal
    Proceedings

On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation
    (“GECL”) filed a lawsuit against us in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The
    lawsuit alleges that GECL was fraudulently induced to provide
    over $60 million in financing to Toshiba Corporation for
    purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC products,
    during the period from 2003 to 2006. GECL claims that PTC
    participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should
    have been aware of the scheme and made negligent
    misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue
    undetected. All of the alleged transactions occurred in Japan.
    GECL claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times
    that amount plus attorneys’ fees. We dispute GECL’s
    claims and intend to contest them vigorously. In connection with
    our restatement of revenue associated with the Toshiba
    transactions described in Note B to our consolidated
    financial statements, approximately $41 million of revenue
    was deferred and classified as Customer Advances in our
    consolidated balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded
    until the rights and obligations of the several companies
    connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the
    extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce
    Customer Advances and record revenue or other income at that
    time. We have not accrued any other liability for this matter as
    of September 30, 2007.

We also are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
    arise in the ordinary course of business. We currently believe
    that resolving these other matters will not have a material
    adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
    operations.

ITEM 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the last quarter of 2007.



PART II

ITEM 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Information with respect to the market for our common stock may
    be found in the section captioned “Selected Financial
    Data” in Item 6 below and is incorporated herein by
    reference.

On September 30, 2007, the close of our fiscal year, our
    common stock was held by 4,465 shareholders of record. As
    of November 23, 2007, our common stock was held by
    4,442 shareholders of record.

We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and we retain
    earnings for use in our business. Although we review our
    dividend policy periodically, we cannot assure you that our
    review will cause us to pay any dividends in the future.
    Further, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain
    specified leverage and fixed-charge ratios that may limit the
    amount of dividends that we can pay.

The table below shows the number of shares of our common stock
    we repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2007.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Maximum Number

Total Number of

(or Approximate Dollar

Shares (or Units)

Value) of Shares

Purchased as Part

(or Units) that May

Total Number of

Average Price

of Publicly

Yet Be Purchased

Shares (or Units)

Paid per Share

Announced Plans

Under the Plans

Period

Purchased

(or Unit)

or Programs

or Programs*

July 1—July 28, 2007

—

n/a

—

3,423,843

July 29—August 25, 2007

457,000

$17.82

457,000

2,966,843

August 26—September 30, 2007

—

n/a

—

2,966,843

Total

457,000

$17.82

457,000

2,966,843

*

In September 1998, our Board of Directors authorized us to
    repurchase up to 8.0 million shares of our common stock and
    in July 2000 increased the shares authorized for repurchase to
    16.0 million. We repurchased 12.5 million shares
    through the end of 2004 and repurchased no shares thereafter
    until the third quarter of 2007 when our Board of Directors
    authorized us to resume purchases under that authorization
    within established parameters. Those parameters permit us to use
    up to $40 million of cash from operations to repurchase our
    shares through May 15, 2008, unless such parameters are
    earlier modified, extended or revoked. We announced our intent
    to resume repurchases of shares on May 25, 2007. All such
    purchases were made in open-market transactions.



ITEM 6.
    Selected Financial Data

FIVE-YEAR
    SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(in thousands, except per share data)

September 30,


2006 (1)

2005 (1)



Restated(3)

Restated(3)

Restated(3)

Restated(3)

Revenue

$941,279

$847,983

$707,975

$651,668

$669,453

Operating income (loss)

92,768

66,513

73,042

31,598

(82,856

)

Net income (loss)

143,656

56,804

73,187

31,585

(101,187

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Basic(2)

1.27

0.52

0.67

0.29

(0.96

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Diluted(2)

1.22

0.50

0.65

0.29

(0.96

)

Total assets

1,090,313

901,387

791,593

679,137

611,582

Working capital

164,289

53,242

47,056

190,237

123,561

Long-term liabilities, less current portion

65,464

110,641

118,017

122,148

114,848

Stockholders’ equity

594,507

405,872

296,905

224,486

180,901

QUARTERLY
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

(in thousands, except per share data)

July 1, 2007

September 30,

Previously

March 31,

December 30,

2007(5)

Reported

Restated (3)



Revenue

$

266,652

$

225,096

$

224,864

$

228,096

$

221,667

Operating income

30,953

19,805

19,573

21,259

20,983

Net income

30,639

87,228

80,465

17,399

15,153

Earnings per share:

Basic

0.27

0.77

0.71

0.15

0.14

Diluted

0.26

0.74

0.68

0.15

0.13

Common Stock prices:(4)

High

$

21.68

$

21.77

$

20.29

$

20.08

Low

$

16.08

$

17.73

$

17.30

$

17.26

September 30, 2006

July 1, 2006

April 1, 2006

December 31, 2005

Previously

Previously

Previously

Previously

Reported

Restated(3)

Reported

Restated(3)

Reported

Restated(3)

Reported

Restated(3)

Revenue

$

245,502

$

244,297

$

216,704

$

215,565

$

200,194

$

195,269

$

192,518

$

192,852

Operating income

31,899

32,974

13,461

12,322

15,088

10,163

11,278

11,054

Net income

25,723

26,979

16,876

15,914

10,751

6,558

7,516

7,353

Earnings per share:

Basic

0.23

0.24

0.15

0.14

0.10

0.06

0.07

0.07

Diluted

0.22

0.24

0.15

0.14

0.09

0.06

0.07

0.07

Common Stock prices:(4)

High

$

17.77

$

16.54

$

17.42

$

17.67

Low

$

12.45

$

11.73

$

14.40

$

14.20



ITEM 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations

Forward-Looking
    Statements

Statements in this Annual Report about anticipated financial
    results and growth, as well as about the development of our
    products and markets, are forward-looking statements that are
    based on our current plans and assumptions. Important
    information about the bases for these plans and assumptions and
    factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially
    from these statements is contained below and in
    Item 1A.“Risk Factors” of this report.

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to a year reflect
    our fiscal year that ends on September 30.

Restatement
    of Previously Issued Financial Results

As a result of an independent investigation led by the Audit
    Committee of our Board of Directors, the Audit Committee
    concluded on October 29, 2007 that we would need to restate
    our previously issued financial statements for the effect of
    certain transactions involving Toshiba Corporation of Japan
    (“Toshiba”), for which we recorded revenue of
    approximately $41 million during fiscal 2001 through 2006.
    Based on its investigation, the Audit Committee concluded that
    the understanding of the arrangement was not fully reflected in
    the order paperwork for these transactions because there were
    additional circumstances known or knowable by one or more of our
    personnel in Japan. That condition required us to change our
    conclusion that the transactions met the revenue recognition
    criteria of Statement of Position

97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition

.

The results of the investigation indicate that during the period
    2001 to 2006, an employee of Toshiba Corporation initiated
    purchases of both software and services from our subsidiary in
    Japan, PTC Japan K.K. (“PTC Japan”). Many of these
    purchases were completed through a third party trading company
    that procured the software and services on Toshiba’s
    behalf. The transactions were supported by orders that were
    signed by employees of Toshiba and the third party trading
    company. PTC Japan delivered the items for which revenue was
    recorded and was paid for the orders in question. The Toshiba
    employee also allegedly entered into a series of financing
    agreements with third party leasing companies, including GE
    Capital Leasing Corporation of Japan (“GECL”), in the
    name of Toshiba to fund various purchases. As part of those
    transactions, the leasing companies allegedly entered into
    transactions with various third party trading companies to
    procure the purchased items on behalf of Toshiba. We were not a
    party to those financing agreements. Toshiba has disclaimed
    responsibility for repayment of these financed amounts and has
    alleged that the Toshiba employee who entered into the financing
    agreements was not authorized to do so and that Toshiba did not
    receive delivery of the items so financed.

Recently, the Toshiba employee involved in the transactions was
    arrested and charged with defrauding certain of the leasing
    companies. Among the allegations against him are that he forged
    contracts in the name of Toshiba. In addition, three
    individuals—each employed by a different trading company
    involved in the transactions—have been arrested for alleged
    involvement in a scheme to defraud the leasing companies.
    According to published news reports, the Toshiba employee and
    these other individuals are suspected of diverting some of the
    proceeds of the financings to a bank account controlled by one
    or more of them. Following these arrests, it was reported on
    October 23, 2007 that two former employees of PTC Japan
    were arrested on suspicion of demanding “hush money”
    from one of the participants in the fraudulent scheme. The press
    accounts indicate that the former PTC Japan employees—who
    left employment with PTC Japan in 2003 and 2004,
    respectively—were no longer working at PTC Japan at the
    time of the alleged demands. According to the press accounts,
    these individuals have not been charged with participating in
    the alleged underlying fraud.

To effect the restatement of revenue associated with the
    transactions placed by the Toshiba employee, we reduced
    previously recorded revenue by approximately $8 million in
    fiscal 2006, $15 million in fiscal 2005, $9 million in
    fiscal 2004, $2 million in fiscal 2003 and $7 million
    in prior years, and recorded related income tax effects. We did
    not make any adjustments to the costs incurred in connection
    with these transactions due to the uncertainty regarding our
    ultimate ability to retain the advances received for these
    transactions and our belief that all such costs are
    unrecoverable. Upon restatement, the revenue reversed from those
    prior periods was deferred and classified as Customer Advances
    in our consolidated balance sheets. That liability (which
    totaled $40.3 million and $39.5 million at
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, after the
    effects of foreign currency movements) will remain recorded
    until the rights and obligations of the several companies
    connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the
    extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce
    Customer Advances and record revenue or other income at that
    time.

Our restatement of prior period financial statements also
    includes adjustments for other previously identified errors that
    we had corrected in the periods they became known to us rather
    than in the periods in which they originated because we believed
    that the amounts of such errors, individually and in the
    aggregate, were not material to our financial statements for the
    affected periods. In this restatement, we have now recorded
    those corrections in the periods in which each error originated.
    Such adjustments, which have been tax effected, primarily relate
    to (i) recording rent expense on a straight-line basis for
    one of our office facilities,



(ii) recording stock-based compensation expense due to the
    timing of approvals for certain stock options we granted,
    (iii) deferring or reversing revenue for certain customer
    orders in the Asia-Pacific region, and (iv) reversing an
    income tax reserve that was unwarranted when established. Our
    restatement also includes an adjustment to correct our third
    quarter 2007 financial statements for a $10.4 million
    overstatement of reported net income, which resulted from tax
    errors detected in the fourth quarter of 2007 relating primarily
    to our release in the third quarter of a substantial portion of
    the valuation allowance for our U.S. net deferred tax
    assets.

A summary of the cumulative revenue and net income effects of
    the restatement on our consolidated financial statements is as
    follows:

Nine months

ended

June 30,

Year ended September 30,






Prior Years

Total

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue, as previously reported

$

674,859

$

854,918

$

720,719

$

660,029

$

671,940

Adjustments

(232

)

(6,935

)

(12,744

)

(8,361

)

(2,487

)

$

(10,506

)

$

(41,265

)

Revenue, as restated

$

674,627

$

847,983

$

707,975

$

651,668

$

669,453

Net income (loss), as previously reported

$

119,780

$

60,866

$

83,592

$

34,813

$

(98,280

)

Adjustments

(6,763

)

(4,062

)

(10,405

)

(3,228

)

(2,907

)

$

(12,927

)

$

(40,292

)

Net income (loss), as restated

$

113,017

$

56,804

$

73,187

$

31,585

$

(101,187

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Diluted, as previously reported

$

1.02

$

0.54

$

0.75

$

0.32

$

(0.93

)

Adjustments

(0.06

)

(0.04

)

(0.10

)

(0.03

)

(0.03

)

Earnings (loss) per share—Diluted, as restated

$

0.96

$

0.50

$

0.65

$

0.29

$

(0.96

)

The restatement had no effect on previously reported cash
    balances or on the amounts of net cash flows from operating,
    investing and financing activities. The adjustments made as a
    result of the restatement are more fully described in
    Note B to our consolidated financial statements included in
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in
    Item 8. For a discussion of our consideration of the
    accounting errors which resulted in the restatement and our
    assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over
    financial reporting, see “Controls and Procedures”
    included in Part II, Item 9A of this

Form 10-K.

All amounts referenced to September 30, 2006 and 2005 in
    the following discussion reflect the balances and amounts on a
    restated basis. Also, comparisons of 2006 and 2005 to any other
    years have been revised from those included in our Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K

for 2006 as necessary to reflect the restated information.

Executive
    Overview

During the past few years, PTC has focused on both revenue
    growth and profitability improvements to increase shareholder
    value. In 2007, we achieved 11% revenue growth over 2006, and
    our operating income improved from $66.5 million to
    $92.8 million. Net income for 2007 was $143.7 million,
    or $1.22 per diluted share, compared to $56.8 million, or
    $0.50 per diluted share in 2006. In 2007, we reversed our
    valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. and other jurisdictions and, as a result, we recorded
    a one-time tax benefit of $58.9 million. Even if the impact
    of this valuation allowance reversal were excluded, we improved
    net income and EPS from 2006 to 2007.

For 2007, we reported total revenue of $941.3 million,
    including total license revenue of $296.1 million, which
    was up 12% from 2006. Our results reflect continued organic
    revenue growth and a small contribution from our acquired
    businesses. We delivered increased Desktop Solutions revenue,
    record Enterprise Solutions revenue, and significant operating
    leverage.

We believe our operating results in 2007 reflect successful
    execution of our strategic initiatives, which focused on
    improving our product and service offerings, our distribution
    model, our strategic account relationships, our competitive
    position and our marketing programs, as well as increased
    technology spending by our customers, particularly in Europe. We
    believe our strategic initiatives have created three key
    competitive differentiators: our product development system
    capabilities, our single platform architecture, and an
    understanding of our customers’ product development
    challenges, which we believe are causing customers to adopt our
    solutions. In particular, we believe our strategy to offer a
    product development system with fully integrated solutions on a
    common architecture provides us with a significant competitive
    advantage and is a major factor in our increased sales of
    Pro/ENGINEER and Windchill.

As part of our continuing efforts to increase profitability, we
    are relocating additional business functions to locations,
    including China, where operating costs are lower and where we
    are also seeking to establish a presence. As part of this
    initiative, we incurred restructuring costs of
    $15.3 million in 2007, all of it in the fourth quarter, and
    expect to incur additional restructuring costs of



approximately $10 million in 2008. We expect that by moving
    these business functions to these countries we will increase
    both our strategic presence and our profitability.

Also, we are continuing to expand our business through
    acquisitions. We recently entered into an agreement to purchase
    CoCreate Software GmbH for approximately $250 million, net
    of cash acquired and excluding transaction fees. We expect the
    transaction to close in the first quarter of 2008. In connection
    with the planned closing of the transaction, on
    November 28, 2007, we borrowed approximately
    $220 million from our revolving credit facility to complete
    the transaction. Our acquisition of CoCreate is significant in a
    number of respects. First, we expect it will increase both
    revenue and operating margins in 2008 as CoCreate had revenue of
    approximately $75 million and significant operating margins
    in the past twelve months. Second, it enables us to both offer
    additional product development solutions and enhance our ability
    to offer our other product development solutions to
    CoCreate’s historical customers. We expect to be able to
    leverage our strong presence in North America and the Pacific
    Rim to sell CoCreate’s products to our existing customer
    base. Finally, because CoCreate’s revenues are concentrated
    in Europe and Japan, we expect to benefit from increased
    presence in those markets.

Acquisitions

A significant element of our growth strategy is to acquire
    strategic companies and technologies that expand our solution
    footprint

and/or

our
    distribution model, and will also be accretive to our financial
    results. We have made a number of strategic acquisitions that
    add to and expand elements of our solutions. Each of our
    acquisitions has helped us to extend our product development
    system, which we consider to be a significant competitive
    advantage for us. You can find more information about these
    acquisitions under the subheading “Acquisitions” of
    Item 1. “Business” of this Annual Report, which
    begins on page 1, and in Note E to the accompanying
    “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Market
    Opportunities

We believe demand for our traditional CAD/CAM/CAE solutions will
    continue to grow modestly and that the broader PLM market
    presents an opportunity for greater growth. We believe the
    overall market for PLM solutions is evolving as manufacturers
    seek to improve their total product development processes
    instead of focusing on individual productivity in engineering or
    manufacturing. These product development processes have become
    increasingly complex as companies develop and manufacture
    products across geographic and corporate boundaries (a trend we
    refer to as “global product development”).

We also believe there is a growing opportunity in the small- and
    medium-size business market as manufacturers in this segment
    migrate from two-dimensional design tools to entry-level
    three-dimensional design tools. Additionally, we believe these
    smaller manufacturers have a need for and will invest in
    enterprise solutions over the next several years.

Fiscal
    Year 2008 Strategies and Risks

In support of our goal to increase revenue and profitability in
    2008, we plan to continue to:

•

improve our product and service offerings;

•

maintain and grow revenue from our traditional vertical market
    segments;

•

leverage and optimize our distribution model, including, when
    appropriate, making measured increases to our direct sales force
    and reseller channel while continuing our efforts to increase
    sales productivity;

•

enhance our relationships with strategic accounts;

•

continue to improve services profitability by focusing on
    services utilization and limiting growth of lower margin
    services such as implementation consulting, while growing
    higher-margin services such as training and process consulting
    services;

•

continue to offshore or outsource selected non-customer facing
    roles in multiple organizations to ensure that we grow resources
    to support planned growth while keeping overall costs low;

•

invest in emerging geographies, particularly China, and focus on
    increasing revenue in the Asia-Pacific market; and

•

pursue corporate development opportunities, including mergers
    and acquisitions and strategic partnerships.

Our success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to:

•

encourage our customers to expand their product development
    technology infrastructure to a more robust PLM product
    development system in order to further their global product
    development initiatives;

•

differentiate our products and services from those of our
    competitors to effectively pursue opportunities within the small
    and medium-size business market as well as with strategic,
    larger accounts;

•

optimize our sales and services coverage and productivity
    through, among other means, effective use and management of our
    internal resources in combination with our resellers and other
    strategic partners and appropriate investment in our
    distribution channel;



•

manage the development and enhancement of our expanding product
    line using our geographically dispersed development resources;

•

manage our operations in

non-U.S. locations

where we are expending our operations, such as China; and

•

integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations and
    execute future corporate development initiatives while remaining
    focused on organic growth opportunities, including penetration
    of strategic vertical markets.

We discuss additional factors affecting our revenue and
    operating results under Item 1A. “Risk
    Factors

”

of this Annual Report.

Results
    of Operations

Overview

The following is a summary of our results of operations for the
    last three years, which includes the results of operations of
    companies we acquired beginning on their acquisition date and,
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, includes increased
    stock-based compensation expense as a result of our adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) at the beginning of that quarter. A detailed
    discussion of these results follows the table.

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(Dollar amounts in millions)

Total revenue

$

941.3


%

(1)

$

848.0


%

(1)

$

708.0

Total costs and expenses

848.5


%

(2)

781.5


%

(2)

634.9

Operating income

92.8


%

66.5

(9

)%

73.1

Other income (expense), net

6.9

3.7

5.5

Income before income taxes

99.7

70.2

78.6

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

(44.0

)

13.4

5.4

Net income

$

143.7


%

$

56.8

(22

)%

$

73.2

(1)

On a consistent foreign currency basis from the prior period,
    total revenue increased 9% from 2006 to 2007 and increased 22%
    from 2005 to 2006.

(2)

On a consistent foreign currency basis from the prior period,
    total costs and expenses increased 6% from 2006 to 2007 and
    increased 25% from 2005 to 2006.

Total costs and expenses reflect increases in our operating cost
    structure from acquisitions, measured increases to support
    planned revenue growth and, from 2005 to 2006, the adoption of
    new stock-based compensation accounting rules. Refer to Costs
    and Expenses beginning on page 24 for a more detailed
    discussion. Total costs and expenses reflect the following:

•

Stock-based compensation expense of $36.4 million in 2007,
    $38.2 million in 2006 and $15.5 million in 2005;

•

Restructuring and other charges (credits) of $15.3 million
    in 2007, $5.9 million in 2006 and $(1.3) million in
    2005; and

•

Amortization expense related to intangible assets of
    $14.9 million in 2007, $11.9 million in 2006 and
    $4.2 million in 2005.

The provision for (benefit from) income taxes in 2007, 2006 and
    2005 is net of tax benefits totaling $62.8 million,
    $6.1 million and $12.1 million, respectively. The 2007
    benefit includes a $58.9 million tax benefit due to the
    reversal of a significant portion of our valuation allowances
    against deferred tax assets in the U.S. and in a foreign
    jurisdiction and a $3.9 million tax benefit from the
    favorable outcome of a tax refund claim in the U.S. The 2006
    benefit resulted from favorable resolutions of tax audits with
    the Internal Revenue Service in the U.S. The 2005 benefit
    resulted from favorable resolutions of tax audits in a non-US
    jurisdiction.

Net income reflects improved operating margin contributions from
    increased revenue year over year, offset by the impact of the
    items discussed above.



The following table shows certain consolidated financial data as
    a percentage of our total revenue for the last three years:

Year ended September 30,




Revenue:

License


%


%


%

Service




Total revenue




Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue




Cost of service revenue




Sales and marketing




Research and development




General and administrative




Amortization of acquired intangible assets



—

In-process research and development

—

—

—

Restructuring and other charges (credits)



—

Total costs and expenses




Operating income




Interest income


—


Other expense, net

—

—

—

Income before income taxes




Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

(4

)



Net income


%


%


%

Revenue

Our revenue consists of software license revenue and service
    revenue, which includes software maintenance revenue (consisting
    of providing our customers software updates and technical
    support) and consulting and training revenue (including
    implementation services).

We report our revenue in two product categories:

•

Enterprise Solutions

, which includes Windchill,
    Pro/INTRALINK, ProductView, Arbortext Publishing Engine,
    Arbortext IsoView and all other solutions that help companies
    collaborate and manage and publish information across an
    extended enterprise; and

•

Desktop Solutions

, which includes Pro/ENGINEER, Arbortext
    Editor, Arbortext IsoDraw, Mathcad and all other solutions that
    help companies create content and improve desktop productivity.

Through the end of the third quarter of 2005, half of
    Pro/INTRALINK revenue was allocated to Desktop Solutions and
    half was allocated to Enterprise Solutions. As a result of the
    new, Windchill-based architecture of Pro/INTRALINK, beginning as
    of the fourth quarter of 2005, all Pro/INTRALINK revenue is
    classified as Enterprise Solutions.



Total
    Revenue

The following table illustrates trends from 2005 to 2007 in our
    software license and service revenues, as well as by product
    category:

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(Dollar amounts in millions)

License revenue:

Enterprise

$

115.4


%

$

96.8


%

$

71.0

Desktop

180.7


%

166.7


%

136.2

Total license revenue

296.1


%

263.5


%

207.2

Maintenance revenue:

Enterprise

80.1


%

68.3


%

56.3

Desktop

328.3


%

300.9


%

284.1

Total maintenance revenue

408.4


%

369.2


%

340.4

Consulting and training service revenue:

Enterprise

158.8


%

127.9


%

88.4

Desktop

78.0

(11

)%

87.4


%

72.0

Total consulting and training service revenue

236.8


%

215.3


%

160.4

Total service revenue

645.2


%

584.5


%

500.8

Total revenue

$

941.3


%

$

848.0


%

$

708.0

Revenue by product category:

Total Enterprise Solutions revenue

$

354.4


%

$

293.0


%

$

215.6

Total Desktop Solutions revenue

586.9


%

555.0


%

492.4

In 2007 and 2006, we had year-over-year revenue growth in both
    Desktop Solutions and Enterprise Solutions. We attribute this
    growth to execution of our strategic initiatives, an increase in
    the number of new seats sold in both product categories, and
    increased technology spending by our customers, particularly in
    Europe and China, and, in 2006, North America. The revenue
    growth reflects both organic growth of our Enterprise Solutions
    and Desktop Solutions and revenue from acquired businesses
    including Arbortext and Mathsoft. Additionally, total revenue in
    2007 was benefited by changes in the foreign exchange rate due
    to the translation of revenue recorded in Europe into
    U.S. Dollars. Prior to our acquisitions of those
    businesses, Arbortext generated revenue of approximately
    $40 million for the twelve months ended June 30, 2005
    and Mathsoft generated revenue of approximately $20 million
    for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. The Arbortext
    and Mathsoft businesses have been included in our results of
    operations since their acquisition dates (Arbortext on
    July 19, 2005 and Mathsoft on April 28, 2006).
    Accordingly, 2005 results include Arbortext only for the fourth
    quarter and do not include Mathsoft; and 2006 results include
    Mathsoft for approximately 5 months (since April 29,
    2006).

Total revenue from our Enterprise Solutions software and related
    services was 38%, 35% and 30% of our total revenue in 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

The increases in Enterprise Solutions revenue in 2007 and 2006
    compared to the prior year reflect:

•

organic growth of our Windchill solutions, which we believe
    reflects our success in helping customers understand the
    benefits of investing in PLM solutions, as well as our ability
    to help customers adopt our solutions incrementally, which
    lowers customer risk, and

•

more wide-spread adoption of our solutions by both our existing
    and new customers, which we believe is a result of customer
    recognition of the benefits of our broad set of capabilities
    delivered on a single system architecture.

The increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue in 2006 compared to
    2005 also reflects:

•

revenue contribution from the Arbortext business; and

•

the 2005 launch of Windchill-based Pro/INTRALINK.

Total revenue from our Desktop Solutions and related services
    was 62%, 65% and 70% of our total revenue in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. The increase in Desktop Solutions revenue in
    2007 as compared to 2006 reflects:

•

growth in maintenance revenue, which we believe reflects
    continued customer satisfaction with PTC and our solutions;



•

growth in license revenue in Europe and Asia-Pacific, which
    primarily reflects increased sales of new seats of

Pro/ENGINEER; and

•

revenue contribution from the acquired ITEDO and Mathsoft
    businesses.

These increases were partially offset by declines in Desktop
    Solutions service revenue, particularly in North America, due to
    both anticipated and unplanned reductions in revenue from
    training services and computer-based training products.

The increase in Desktop Solutions revenue in 2006 as compared to
    2005 was due primarily to increases in sales of our entry-level
    package of Pro/ENGINEER and sales of related modules and package
    upgrades throughout our customer base, as well as to sales of
    products from our Arbortext and Mathsoft businesses.

License
    Revenue

Total

License revenue accounted for 31% of total revenue in 2007 and
    2006 and 29% of total revenue in 2005. The growth in license
    revenue in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects revenue growth from
    customers of all sizes and across product categories. The growth
    in license revenue in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to
    organic growth in both Enterprise Solutions and Desktop
    Solutions (including contributions from our reseller channel)
    and contributions from our acquired businesses, including
    Arbortext, Mathsoft and ITEDO, from the date of each transaction.

Enterprise

The increase in Enterprise Solutions license revenue in 2007 as
    compared to the 2006 came primarily from sales of Windchill
    PDMLink

®

,
    our core Windchill content and process management solution, as
    both existing and new customers adopted our Windchill solutions.
    The increase in Enterprise Solutions license revenue in 2006 as
    compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to organic growth as
    well as to sales of our Arbortext products. The number of new
    Windchill seats sold in both 2007 and 2006 increased as compared
    to the prior year periods, which we believe reflects our success
    in marketing incremental adoption of our solutions, as well as
    our improved competitive position.

Desktop
    Solutions

The increase in Desktop Solutions license revenue in 2007
    compared to 2006 was due primarily to revenue contribution from
    sales of Mathcad and Arbortext IsoDraw. Revenue from sales of
    Pro/ENGINEER was relatively flat from 2007 to 2006, with
    increases in new seat revenue offset by declines in upgrades and
    modules. The increase in Desktop Solutions license revenue in
    2006 compared to 2005 was due primarily to organic growth, which
    was primarily attributable to higher sales of our entry-level
    package of Pro/ENGINEER and related modules and package
    upgrades, and to revenue contributions from sales of Mathcad and
    Arbortext IsoDraw.

Maintenance
    Revenue

Total

Maintenance revenue represented 43%, 44% and 48% of total
    revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Growth in our
    maintenance revenue was due to a higher number of seats under
    maintenance agreements and reflects continued success in
    improving customer satisfaction with our solutions, product
    enhancements and technical support.

Enterprise
    Solutions

Increases in our Enterprise Solutions maintenance revenue in
    2007 and 2006 were due primarily to an increase in the number of
    new users of our Enterprise Solutions as new customers were
    added and existing customers expanded their implementations to
    additional users.

Desktop
    Solutions

The increase in our Desktop Solutions maintenance revenue in
    2007 and 2006 was due to revenue contributions from our acquired
    products, particularly Mathcad, a higher number of seats under
    maintenance agreements and growth of license revenue in prior
    periods.



Consulting
    and Training Revenue

Total

Consulting and training service revenue, which has a lower gross
    profit margin than license and maintenance revenue, accounted
    for 25% of total revenue in 2007 and 2006 and 23% of total
    revenue in 2005. Growth in total consulting and training
    services revenue is attributable to increased use by our
    customer base of our consulting and training services, including
    our expanding suite of computer-based training products as well
    as contributions from acquired businesses. As we have increased
    our service revenue, we have focused on improving our consulting
    and training service profit margins by improving consulting
    staff utilization and growing revenue from higher-margin sources
    such as computer-based training products.

Enterprise
    Solutions

Increases in our Enterprise Solutions consulting and training
    service revenue in 2007 were due to increased customer demand
    for process and implementation consulting services as a result
    of increased adoption of our software solutions. Also, during
    2007 our Enterprise Solutions consulting and training revenue
    included a large customer engagement in Europe which contributed
    to the growth in 2007 as compared to 2006. Increases in our
    Enterprise Solutions consulting and training service revenue
    from 2005 to 2006 were due to planned growth in services
    capacity to address increased customer demand for process and
    implementation consulting services, as well as the addition of
    Arbortext, which had a significant services business for its
    publishing solutions.

Desktop
    Solutions

The decline in Desktop Solutions consulting and training service
    revenue in 2007 from 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in
    consulting and training revenue in North America. The increase
    in Desktop Solutions consulting and training service revenue in
    2006 compared to 2005 was due to the increase in the number of
    new seats sold in these years versus the prior years as well as
    to higher revenue from sales of consulting services and training
    packages, including computer-based training products, which help
    our customers improve user proficiency and engineering
    productivity.

Revenue
    from Individual Customers

We enter into customer contracts that may result in revenue
    being recognized over multiple reporting periods. Accordingly,
    revenue recognized in a current period may be attributable to
    contracts entered into during the current period or in prior
    periods. License

and/or

consulting and training service revenue of $1 million or
    more recognized from individual customers in a single quarter
    during the fiscal year was $156.7 million,
    $138.0 million and $73.3 million in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. While our customers may not continue to
    spend at these levels in future periods, we believe this
    increase is the result of a shift in customer priorities toward
    PLM solutions relative to other IT spending initiatives, our
    improved ability to provide broader solutions to our customers,
    and improvements in our competitive position due to our system
    architecture and product development process knowledge.

Revenue
    by Geography

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


North America

$

365.0


%

$

360.6


%

$

272.0

Europe

353.4


%

(1)

287.5


%

(1)

254.2

Asia-Pacific

222.9


%

(2)

199.9


%

(2)

181.8

$

941.3


%

(3)

$

848.0


%

(3)

$

708.0

We derived 61%, 57% and 62% of our total revenue from sales to
    customers outside of North America in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Total revenue growth in North America was
    primarily due to organic growth and, in 2006, contributions from
    sales of Arbortext and Mathsoft products, sales of which were
    concentrated in that region. The results in 2007 in North
    America reflect growth in maintenance revenue and relatively
    flat license revenue, offset by declines in consulting and
    training service revenue. We believe the improvements in our
    2006 revenue in North America are attributable to implementation
    of our strategic initiatives



and improvements in the economy in that region, where the
    manufacturing sector and related technology spending had been
    weak.

Revenue in Europe in 2007 reflects strong growth in both product
    categories and a benefit from foreign exchange rate movements.
    In 2007, our Enterprise Solutions consulting and training
    revenue included a large customer engagement in Europe which
    contributed to the growth in 2007 as compared to 2006. Our
    European revenue in 2006 reflects improvement in sales and
    services performance in strategic accounts in that region. The
    increase in European revenue in 2006 compared to 2005 was due
    primarily to strong performance in Enterprise Solutions,
    including growth in license, consulting and training service and
    maintenance revenue. We also experienced growth in Desktop
    Solutions, particularly license and consulting and training
    service revenue.

Asia-Pacific revenue in 2007 compared to 2006 reflected an 11%
    increase in the Pacific Rim and a 12% increase in Japan. Revenue
    performance in Asia-Pacific for 2006 compared to 2005 reflected
    a 30% increase in revenue in the Pacific Rim sub-region, offset
    by a 9% decrease in revenue in the Japan sub-region. We believe
    that the growth in the Pacific Rim reflects improved market
    opportunity and better execution after strategic and
    organizational changes we made in that region early in 2006. We
    believe that the decrease in revenue in Japan in 2006 was
    partially attributable to market dynamics and partially
    attributable to our operational execution problems. We made
    organizational and strategic changes in Japan and believe these
    changes have helped improved our results there. Additionally,
    Japan revenue performance is largely driven by large customer
    transactions which have fluctuated period-to-period. We believe
    the Asia-Pacific region, particularly China, continues to
    present an important growth opportunity because global
    manufacturing companies have continued to invest in that region
    and the market in that region for both our Desktop Solutions and
    Enterprise Solutions is relatively unsaturated.

Revenue
    from Our Reseller Channel

We have been building and diversifying our reseller channel to
    become less dependent on a small number of resellers and to
    provide the resources necessary for more effective distribution
    of our products. Although we typically receive lower revenue per
    seat for an indirect sale versus a direct sale, we believe that
    using diverse and geographically dispersed resellers that focus
    on smaller businesses provides an efficient and cost effective
    means to reach these customers and allows our direct sales force
    to focus on larger sales opportunities. Total sales from our
    reseller channel, which are primarily for our Desktop Solutions,
    were $195.2 million in 2007 (21% of total revenue),
    $171.5 million (20% of total revenue) in 2006 and
    $141.4 million (20% of total revenue) in 2005. We attribute
    the revenue increase from our reseller channel to our efforts to
    expand our reseller channel, to the success of Pro/ENGINEER
    Wildfire among small and medium-size businesses as Pro/ENGINEER
    Wildfire has become increasingly competitive in this market
    (both relative to our historic offerings as well as to
    competitive offerings in this market segment) and to sales of
    recently acquired Arbortext and Mathsoft products. In each year,
    we continued to experience growth in our reseller channel
    revenue in North America and Europe and, in 2006, we also
    experienced strong growth in our reseller channel in
    Asia-Pacific. We attribute the improvement in our Asia-Pacific
    reseller channel performance in 2006 to organizational and
    infrastructure changes we made in that region in the first half
    of the year.

Costs
    and Expenses

Over the past several years, we have made significant
    investments to transform our business from providing a single
    line of technical software with a largely direct distribution
    model, supplemented by a small number of channel partners, to
    providing integrated product development system solutions with
    an expanded channel and partner-involved distribution model. As
    part of this effort, we have broadened our product development
    system through acquisitions, and we intend to continue to do so.

While we intend to continue to invest in our strategic
    initiatives to support planned revenue growth and to fund
    revenue-generating initiatives, we remain focused on achieving
    our operating margin goals. Accordingly, we are taking steps to
    improve operating margins. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we
    recorded a restructuring charge of $15.3 million. The
    restructuring charge included a $13.2 million charge for
    severance and related costs associated with 262 employees
    notified of termination during the quarter and $2.1 million
    related to excess facilities. The charges for excess facilities
    were primarily related to gross lease commitments in excess of
    estimated sublease income for excess facilities. We are also
    evaluating other cost savings opportunities including optimizing
    the use of our leased facilities worldwide and relocating
    functions and additional workforce to lower-cost geographies. We
    expect that this process will result in additional restructuring
    costs totaling approximately $10 million in 2008. We expect
    these planned restructuring initiatives will help us to improve
    operating margins while continuing to grow the business and
    increase our strategic presence in emerging geographies.



The following table illustrates trends from 2005 to 2007 in our
    costs and expenses:

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(Dollar amounts in millions)

Costs and Expenses

Cost of license revenue

$

16.1


%

$

12.2


%

$

8.4

Cost of service revenue

274.7


%

257.6


%

199.8

Sales and marketing

292.2


%

273.0


%

243.8

Research and development

162.4


%

147.0


%

118.3

General and administrative

79.8


%

77.6


%

63.6

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

7.5


%

6.1


%

1.6

In-process research and development

0.5

(74)

%

2.1


%

0.7

Restructuring and other charges (credits)

15.3


%

5.9

(1.3

)

Total costs and expenses

$

848.5


%*

$

781.5


%*

$

634.9

*

On a consistent foreign currency basis from the prior period,
    total costs and expenses increased 6% from 2006 to 2007 and
    increased 25% from 2005 to 2006.

Effective July 3, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

. Accordingly, for the full year of
    2007 and 2006 and the three months ended September 30,
    2005, stock-based compensation was accounted for under
    SFAS 123(R), which requires the expensing of the fair value
    of stock-based awards in our consolidated statements of
    operations, while for the nine months ended July 2, 2005,
    stock-based compensation was accounted for under APB
    No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

,
    which required only the expensing of the intrinsic value, if
    any, of stock-based awards. The amounts in the table above
    include the following amounts for stock-based compensation.

Year ended September 30,




(in millions)

Cost of license revenue

$

0.1

$

0.1

$

0.1

Cost of service revenue

7.4

7.5

2.6

Sales and marketing

9.0

9.6

5.1

Research and development

7.2

8.6

3.8

General and administrative

12.7

12.4

3.9

Total stock-based compensation expense

$

36.4

$

38.2

$

15.5

Total
    Costs and Expenses

2007 compared to 2006.

Total costs and
    expenses increased to $848.5 million in 2007, compared to
    $781.5 million in 2006. Total costs and expenses were
    adversely impacted by foreign currency exchange rates as costs
    and expenses incurred in Europe were translated into
    U.S. Dollars. Headcount increased to 4,449 at the end of
    2007 from 4,309 at the end of 2006. Our increase in costs and
    expenses, including headcount, were primarily due to the
    following:

•

planned spending to support revenue growth, including increasing
    our services delivery capacity and higher sales commission
    expense;

•

acquisitions completed in 2007 and the second half of 2006 that
    added operating costs and increased headcount by an aggregate of
    over 50 employees; and

•

higher restructuring charges recorded in 2007 relating to
    certain actions we took to reduce operating costs.

2006 compared to 2005.

Total costs and
    expenses increased to $781.5 million in 2006, compared to
    $634.9 million in 2005. Headcount increased to 4,309 at the
    end of 2006 from 3,751 at the end of 2005. Our increase in costs
    and expenses, including headcount, was primarily due to the
    following:

•

planned spending to support revenue growth, including increasing
    our services delivery capacity and higher sales commission
    expense;

•

increased stock-based compensation expense due to the adoption
    of SFAS 123(R) in the fourth quarter of 2005;



•

six acquisitions completed in the second half of 2005 that added
    operating costs and increased headcount by an aggregate of over
    400 employees; and

•

a restructuring charge recorded in the third quarter of 2006
    relating to certain actions we took to reduce operating costs.

Cost of
    License Revenue

Our cost of license revenue consists of fixed and variable costs
    associated with reproducing and distributing software and
    documentation as well as royalties paid to third parties for
    technology embedded in or licensed with our software products.
    Cost of license revenue as a percentage of license revenue was
    5% for both 2007 and 2006 and 4% for 2005. The increase in cost
    of license revenue in 2007 and 2006 compared to the prior year
    is due primarily to higher amortization of purchased and
    capitalized software of approximately $1.7 million and
    $3.1 million, respectively, primarily attributable to
    acquisitions completed since the second half of 2005. Cost of
    license revenue as a percent of license revenue can vary
    depending on product mix sold and the effect of fixed and
    variable royalties and the level of amortization of acquired
    software intangible assets.

Cost of
    Service Revenue

Our cost of service revenue includes costs associated with
    training, customer support and consulting personnel, such as
    salaries and related costs; third-party subcontractor fees;
    costs associated with the release of maintenance updates
    (including related royalty costs); and facility costs. Cost of
    service revenue as a percentage of service revenue was 43% in
    2007, 44% in 2006 and 40% in 2005. Service margins can vary
    based on the product mix sold in the period. Service margins in
    2007 and 2006 were lower than in 2005 primarily due to the
    change in accounting for stock-based compensation described
    above and a higher percentage of consulting and training
    services revenue (which has a lower margin than maintenance
    revenue) relative to total service revenue. Service-related
    employee headcount decreased 3% and increased 27% at the end of
    2007 and 2006, respectively, compared to the prior year. At the
    end of 2007, 2006 and 2005, services headcount was 1,256, 1,291
    and 1,019, respectively. Year-end headcount for 2007 reflects
    employee terminations that occurred in the fourth quarter.
    Actual average headcount was approximately 11% higher in 2007
    compared to 2006. Total salaries, commissions, benefits and
    travel costs were higher by an aggregate of approximately
    $9.7 million and $41.7 million in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, compared to the prior year (including a decrease
    of $0.1 million and an increase of $4.9 million in
    2007 and 2006, respectively, related to stock-based
    compensation). These costs were higher due to planned increases,
    including by acquisition, in our services delivery capacity and,
    in 2006, were higher due to higher commissions resulting from
    the increase in service revenue. The cost of third-party
    consulting services was $4.9 million and $14.7 million
    higher in 2007 and 2006, respectively, compared to the prior
    year periods, due to the use of such services in support of
    increases in consulting and training services revenue.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing expenses primarily include salaries and
    benefits, sales commissions, advertising and marketing programs,
    travel and facility costs. Sales and marketing expenses as a
    percentage of total revenue were 31%, 32% and 35% in 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. Total sales and marketing employee
    headcount increased 2% and 5% at the end of 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, compared to the prior year. At the end of 2007,
    2006 and 2005, sales and marketing headcount was 1,166, 1,145
    and 1,087, respectively. Total salaries, commissions, benefits
    and travel costs were higher by an aggregate of approximately
    $13.5 million and $29.2 million in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, compared to the prior year (including a decrease
    of $0.6 million and an increase of $4.5 million in
    2007 and 2006, respectively, related to stock-based
    compensation). Sales and marketing costs were higher in 2007 and
    2006 due to planned increases, including by acquisition, in
    headcount and higher commissions, due primarily to increased
    license and service revenue.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development expenses consist principally of
    salaries and benefits, costs of computer equipment and facility
    expenses. Major research and development activities include
    developing new releases of our software that work together in a
    more integrated fashion and that include functionality
    enhancements desired by our customers. We released Windchill 9.0
    in the fourth quarter of 2007, we released Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire
    3.0 in the second quarter of 2006 and we are planning to release
    the next version of Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire in 2008. Research and
    development expenses as a percentage of total revenue were 17%
    in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005. Research and development
    headcount increased 8% and 16% at the end of 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, compared to the prior year. At the end of 2007,
    2006 and 2005, research and development headcount was 1,547,
    1,437 and 1,242, respectively. Total salaries, benefits and
    travel costs were higher in 2007 and 2006 compared to the prior
    year by an aggregate of approximately $14.5 million and
    $24.2 million, respectively (including a decrease of
    $1.4 million and an increase of $4.8 million in 2007
    and 2006, respectively, related to stock-based compensation).



General
    and Administrative

Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of our
    corporate, finance, information technology, human resources,
    legal and administrative functions, as well as bad debt expense.
    General and administrative expenses also include costs
    associated with outside professional services, including
    accounting and legal fees. General and administrative expenses
    as a percentage of total revenue were 8% in 2007 and 9% in both
    2006 and 2005. General and administrative headcount increased by
    11% and 9% at the end of 2007 and 2006, respectively, compared
    to the prior year. At the end of 2007, 2006 and 2005, general
    and administrative headcount was 465, 420 and 385, respectively.
    Total salaries, benefits and travel costs were higher in 2007
    and 2006 compared to the prior year by an aggregate of
    approximately $3.5 million and $12.6 million,
    respectively (including an increase of $0.3 million and
    $8.5 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to
    stock-based compensation). Our general and administrative
    expenses in 2007 included costs for outside professional
    services incurred in connection with our corporate development
    initiatives, including $1.7 million related to potential
    acquisitions that did not close. Additionally, general and
    administrative expenses in 2007 included $1.1 million for
    professional fees incurred primarily in connection with our
    investigation into Toshiba orders described in “Restatement
    of Previously Issued Financial Results” in the front part
    of this section. Our general and administrative expenses in 2006
    included costs for outside professional services totaling
    $2.5 million incurred in connection with our investigation
    in the Asia-Pacific region described in our 2005 Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K

and included a $2.3 million charge related to our
    settlement of litigation with Rand A. Technology, a former
    distributor of our products.

Amortization
    of Acquired Intangible Assets

The amortization of acquired intangible assets line item on our
    statement of operations reflects the amortization of non-product
    related intangible assets from acquisitions. Amortization of
    these acquisition-related intangible assets, which totaled
    $7.5 million, $6.1 million and $1.6 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily includes the
    amortization of customer-related intangibles. The increases in
    2007 and 2006 compared to 2005 were due to amortization of
    intangible assets resulting from acquisitions completed in the
    second half of 2005, 2006 and 2007. We expect amortization of
    non-product related intangible assets from our completed
    acquisitions to total approximately $18 million in 2008.

Our acquisitions of NC Graphics, ITEDO and the assets of
    NetRegulus completed in 2007 resulted in an increase in acquired
    intangibles of $16.4 million and an increase in goodwill of
    $12.2 million. Acquired intangible assets consisted of
    $3.1 million of customer relationship intangibles,
    $13.1 million of purchased software, and $0.2 million
    of other intangibles, which are being amortized over estimated
    useful weighted average lives of 9 years, 5 years and
    3 years, respectively.

Our acquisition of Mathsoft in the third quarter of 2006
    resulted in an increase in acquired intangible assets of
    $25.6 million and goodwill of $42.0 million. Acquired
    intangible assets consisted of $13.9 million of customer
    relationship intangibles, $10.3 million of purchased
    software, and $1.4 million of trademarks and distributor
    networks, each of which are being amortized over estimated
    useful lives of 7 to 10 years, 5 years and
    5 years, respectively.

Our acquisitions of DENC AG and substantially all of the assets
    of Cadtrain, Inc. in the first quarter of 2006 resulted in
    $4.3 million of goodwill and $5.9 million of other
    acquired intangible assets, primarily comprised of customer
    relationship intangibles, which are being amortized over a
    weighted average of 8.3 years.

Our acquisition of Arbortext in the fourth quarter of 2005
    resulted in an increase in acquired intangible assets of
    $46.6 million and goodwill of $151.6 million. Acquired
    intangible assets consisted of $35.3 million of customer
    relationship intangibles, $10.5 million of purchased
    software and $0.8 million of trademarks, each of which are
    being amortized over estimated useful lives of 10 years, 3
    to 5 years and 5 years, respectively.

Our acquisitions of Polyplan Technologies, Inc. and Aptavis
    Technologies Corporation in the third quarter of 2005 resulted
    in an increase in goodwill of $5.6 million and acquired
    intangible assets of $3.3 million, primarily comprised of
    purchased software, which is being amortized over 3 years.

In-process
    Research and Development

In the third quarter of 2007, we recorded a charge of
    $0.5 million for in-process research and development in
    connection with our acquisition of NC Graphics related to a
    project under development for which technological feasibility
    had not yet been established at the acquisition date and for
    which there was no alternative future use. The value of the
    purchased in-process research and development was determined
    using the residual income approach, which discounts expected
    future cash flows from projects under development to their net
    present value.

In the third quarter of 2006, we recorded a charge of
    $2.1 million for in-process research and development in
    connection with our acquisition of Mathsoft related to a project
    under development for which technological feasibility had not
    yet been established at the acquisition date and for which there
    was no alternative future use. The value of the purchased
    in-process research and development was determined using the
    residual income approach, which discounts expected future cash
    flows from projects under



development to their net present value. The expected cost to
    complete was approximately $0.8 million at the acquisition
    date. This development project was completed in 2007.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a charge of
    $0.7 million for in-process research and development
    related to two Arbortext projects under development for which
    technological feasibility had not yet been established at the
    acquisition date and for which there was no alternative future
    use. The value of the purchased in-process research and
    development was determined using the residual income approach,
    which discounts expected future cash flows from projects under
    development to their net present value. The expected cost to
    complete was approximately $2 million as of the acquisition
    date. These development projects were completed in 2006, as
    expected.

Restructuring
    and Other Charges (Credits)

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded restructuring and other
    charges (credits) of $15.3 million, $5.9 million and
    $(1.3) million, respectively, primarily associated with
    reductions in workforce and excess facility obligations to
    reduce our cost structure and to improve profitability. During
    those same periods, we made cash payments related to
    restructuring and other charges (including payments relating to
    restructuring and other charges recorded prior to 2004) of
    $14.7 million, $15.2 million and $10.8 million,
    respectively. Amounts not yet paid at September 30, 2007
    relating to restructuring and other charges taken during the
    current and all prior periods were $23.3 million and
    primarily relate to excess facility obligations to be paid out
    through 2014. Of the total amount accrued at September 30,
    2007, we expect to make cash disbursements within the next
    twelve months of approximately $14 million for
    restructuring charges incurred in 2007 and prior periods.

In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a restructuring
    charge of $15.3 million. The restructuring charge included
    a $13.2 million charge for severance and related costs
    associated with 262 employees notified of termination
    during the quarter and $2.1 million related to excess
    facilities. The charges for excess facilities were primarily
    related to gross lease commitments in excess of estimated
    sublease income for excess facilities. We are also evaluating
    other cost savings opportunities including relocating functions
    and additional workforce to lower-cost locations. We expect that
    this process will result in additional restructuring costs
    totaling approximately $10 million in 2008.

In the third quarter of 2006, we recorded a net restructuring
    charge of $5.9 million. The net restructuring charge
    included $7.4 million of severance and related costs
    associated with the termination of 91 employees in the
    third quarter of 2006, partially offset by a credit of
    $1.5 million primarily related to a plan to reoccupy a
    portion of our headquarters facility that was previously vacated
    and had been included in restructuring costs in prior periods.
    The headquarters space was available for sublease and was being
    marketed, but is being reoccupied due to space requirements
    related to our acquisition of Mathsoft. As of September 30,
    2007, substantially all of our remaining excess headquarters
    space had been sublet.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a net credit to
    restructuring and other charges of $1.3 million. The
    restructuring credit includes a $3.0 million credit for
    changes in our estimated liabilities for facilities that we
    vacated, offset by $1.7 million of severance and
    termination costs related to nine employees terminated during
    the period. The $3.0 million credit was due primarily to
    reoccupying, in the fourth quarter of 2005, a portion of our
    headquarters facility that was previously vacated and included
    in restructuring costs in a prior period. The space was
    available for sublease and was being marketed, but was
    reoccupied due to space requirements related to our three
    acquisitions completed in 2005 and general business growth.

Interest
    Income

Interest income represents earnings on the investment of our
    available cash balances and totaled $9.9 million,
    $5.4 million and $6.9 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The increase in 2007 compared to 2006 was related
    primarily to higher average cash balances and higher interest
    rates. Interest income was lower in 2006 as compared to 2005
    primarily due to lower average cash balances as a result of
    acquisitions completed in the second half of 2005 and the first
    nine months of 2006.

Other
    Expense, Net

Other expense, net includes costs of hedging contracts, certain
    realized and unrealized foreign currency transaction gains or
    losses, charges incurred in connection with financing customer
    contracts, write-downs of investments and foreign exchange gains
    or losses resulting from the required period-end currency
    remeasurement of the assets and liabilities of our subsidiaries
    that use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. A
    large portion of our revenue and expenses is transacted in
    foreign currencies. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
    foreign exchange rates, we engage in hedging transactions
    involving the use of foreign currency forward contracts,
    primarily in Western European and Asian currencies. Other
    expense, net totaled $3.0 million, $1.7 million and
    $1.4 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
    increase in other expense, net in 2007 was due primarily to
    higher foreign exchange losses and other expense of
    $0.7 million recorded in the second quarter of 2007 related
    to the settlement of a disputed obligation related to a
    previously divested business unit.



Income
    Taxes

Our income tax provision has fluctuated significantly in terms
    of amount and rate in each of the past three years, due
    primarily to the impact of discrete events, such as the release
    of a substantial portion of the U.S. valuation allowance
    and the settlements of tax audits, which created one-time income
    tax benefits. In 2007, our effective tax rate was a benefit of
    44.1% on pre-tax income of $99.7 million compared to a
    provision of 19.1% in the 2006 on pre-tax income of
    $70.2 million and 6.8% in 2005 on pre-tax income of
    $78.6 million. The net tax benefit recorded in 2007 was
    principally due to a tax benefit of $58.9 million recorded
    upon our decision in the third quarter of 2007 to release a
    substantial portion of the valuation allowance recorded against
    net deferred tax assets in the U.S. and a foreign
    jurisdiction as well as a net tax benefit of $3.9 million
    recorded in the third quarter of 2007 from the favorable outcome
    of a tax refund claim in the U.S. In 2006, our effective
    tax rate of 19.1% was lower than the statutory federal income
    tax rate of 35% due primarily to a $6.1 million benefit
    recorded upon settlement of prior year tax audits in the
    U.S. (discussed below) as well as our use of net operating
    loss carryforwards (NOLs) to offset our 2006 U.S. taxable
    income, which reduced the valuation allowance we had previously
    recorded against those NOLs. In 2005, our effective tax rate of
    6.8% was lower than the 35% statutory federal income tax rate
    due primarily to a tax benefit of $12.1 million arising
    from a reduction of our tax liabilities upon favorable
    resolution of tax audits in a foreign jurisdiction; the benefit
    of foreign taxes paid at a net effective tax rate lower than
    that in the U.S.; and the benefit from the reversal of
    $4.1 million of valuation allowances in certain foreign
    jurisdictions due to their consistent profitability. Excluding
    the effect of these one-time tax benefits, our income tax
    provisions in 2007, 2006 and 2005 consisted primarily of taxes
    owed in relation to the income generated by our foreign
    subsidiaries as well as withholding taxes that we incurred in
    the U.S. in connection with certain foreign operations. The
    tax provisions of those periods included only insignificant
    amounts in relation to the income that we generated in the U.S.,
    due to our utilization of available net operating loss
    carryforwards that previously had been recorded in our balance
    sheet with a full valuation allowance.

As of the end of the second quarter of 2007, a full valuation
    allowance was recorded against our net deferred tax assets
    (consisting primarily of net operating loss carryforwards) in
    the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Based upon our
    operating results over recent years and through June 30,
    2007, as well as an assessment of our expected future results of
    operations, during the third quarter of 2007, we determined that
    it had become more likely than not that we would realize a
    substantial portion of our net deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction. As a result, during the
    third quarter, we released a total of $79.8 million of our
    valuation allowances. Of the $79.8 million valuation
    allowance release, $58.9 million was recorded as a one-time
    income tax benefit, $20.0 million was recorded as a
    reduction to goodwill recorded upon prior acquisitions, and
    $0.9 million was recorded as a decrease to accumulated
    other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity.

As of September 30, 2007, we have a remaining valuation
    allowance of $37.1 million against net deferred tax assets
    in the U.S. and a remaining valuation allowance of
    $39.4 million against net deferred tax assets in certain
    foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowance recorded against
    net deferred tax assets in the U.S. consists of
    $27.7 million for foreign tax credits and $2.7 million
    for capital losses that we have determined are not more likely
    than not to be realized; $6.6 million for stock-based
    compensation deductions that will be credited to additional
    paid-in capital only when realized; and $0.1 million for
    certain state operating loss carryforwards that will likely
    expire without being utilized. The valuation allowance recorded
    against net deferred tax assets of certain foreign jurisdictions
    consists primarily of net operating loss carryforwards that will
    likely expire without being utilized.

In the normal course of business, PTC and its subsidiaries are
    examined by various taxing authorities, including the Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States. We recorded a net
    tax benefit of $3.9 million in the third quarter of 2007
    from the favorable outcome of a tax refund claim in the
    U.S. In the third quarter of 2006, we reached final
    agreement with the IRS and made federal income tax payments
    totaling $9.5 million for liabilities arising from our
    income tax returns for fiscal years 2001 and 2002. As a result
    of this final agreement and the tax payments made being less
    than the accrued income taxes that we had recorded for those
    years, we recorded an income tax benefit in the third quarter of
    2006 of $6.1 million. In 2005, we recorded tax benefits of
    $12.1 million arising from the reduction of our tax
    liabilities upon the favorable resolution of foreign
    jurisdiction tax audits.

Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the
    amount of income taxes associated with our foreign earnings,
    which are taxed at rates different from the U.S. federal
    statutory rate, as well as the timing and extent of the
    realization of deferred tax assets and changes in the tax law.
    Further, our tax rate may fluctuate within a fiscal year,
    including from quarter to quarter, due to items arising from
    discrete events, including settlements of tax audits and
    assessments; the resolution or identification of tax position
    uncertainties; and acquisitions of other companies.



Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates

We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In preparing our financial statements,
    we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a
    significant impact on our reported revenues, results from
    operations, and net income, as well as on the value of certain
    assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. These estimates,
    assumptions and judgments about future events and their effects
    on our results cannot be determined with certainty, and are made
    based on our historical experience and on other assumptions that
    we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These
    estimates may change as new events occur or additional
    information is obtained, and we may periodically be faced with
    uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control
    and may not be known for a prolonged period of time.

The accounting policies, methods and estimates used to prepare
    our financial statements are described generally in Note A
    of

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

. The most
    important critical accounting judgments and estimates that we
    made in preparing the financial statements involved:

•

revenue recognition;

•

valuation of assets and liabilities of business combinations;

•

valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets;

•

accounting for income taxes;

•

accounting for pensions;

•

accounting for stock-based compensation;

•

allowance for accounts and other receivables; and

•

restructuring charges.

A critical accounting policy is one that is both material to the
    presentation of our financial statements and requires us to make
    difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a
    material effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations. Critical accounting policies require us to make
    assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time
    of the estimate, and different estimates that we could have
    used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to
    occur, may have a material impact on our financial condition or
    results of operations. Because the use of estimates is inherent
    in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ
    from those estimates.

Accounting policies, guidelines and interpretations related to
    our critical accounting policies and estimates are generally
    subject to numerous sources of authoritative guidance and are
    often reexamined by accounting standards rule makers and
    regulators. These rule makers

and/or

regulators may promulgate interpretations, guidance or
    regulations that may result in changes to our accounting
    policies, which could have a material impact on our financial
    position and results of operations.

Revenue
    Recognition

While we apply the guidance of Statement of Position (SOP)

No. 97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition,

and Statement of Position

No. 98-9,

Modification of

SOP 97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain
    Transactions,

both issued by the American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants, as well as SEC Staff Accounting
    Bulletin 104,

Revenue Recognition,

we exercise
    judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination
    of the amounts of software license and services revenues to be
    recognized in each accounting period. Our primary judgments
    involve the following:

•

determining whether collection is probable;

•

assessing whether the fee is fixed or determinable;

•

determining whether service arrangements, including
    modifications and customization of the underlying software, are
    not essential to the functionality of the licensed software and
    thus would qualify as “service transactions” under

SOP 97-2,

resulting in the revenue for license and service elements of an
    agreement to be recorded separately; and

•

determining the fair value of services and maintenance elements
    included in multiple-element arrangements, which is the basis
    for allocating and deferring revenue for such services and
    maintenance.



We derive revenues from three primary sources: (1) software
    licenses, (2) maintenance services and (3) consulting
    and training services. Revenue by type for 2007, 2006 and 2005
    was as follows:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

License revenue

$

296,125

$

263,471

$

207,222

Maintenance services revenue

408,412

369,186

340,403

Consulting and training services revenue

236,742

215,326

160,350

Total revenue

$

941,279

$

847,983

$

707,975

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize revenue when: (1) persuasive
    evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has
    occurred (generally, FOB shipping point or electronic
    distribution), (3) the fee is fixed or determinable, and
    (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our
    license revenues are recognized in this manner.

Our software is distributed primarily through our direct sales
    force. In addition, we have an indirect distribution channel
    through alliances with resellers and, for our Mathsoft products,
    with distributors. Approximately 21% of our total revenue in
    2007 was generated from our indirect distributor channel.
    Revenue arrangements with resellers are recognized on a
    sell-through basis; that is, when we receive persuasive evidence
    that the reseller has sold the products to an end-user customer.
    We do not offer contractual rights of return, stock balancing,
    or price protection to our resellers, and actual product returns
    from them have been insignificant to date. As a result, we do
    not maintain reserves for reseller product returns and related
    allowances. In contrast, revenue arrangements with distributors
    of our Mathsoft products have a contractual right to exchange
    product and are recognized on a sell-in basis; that is, when we
    ship the products to the distributor. As of September 30,
    2007, the value of product inventory held by distributors and
    the accrual that we have recorded for estimated product returns
    were not material.

At the time of each sale transaction, we must make an assessment
    of the collectibility of the amount due from the customer.
    Revenue is only recognized at that time if management deems that
    collection is probable. In making this assessment, we consider
    customer credit-worthiness and historical payment experience. At
    that same time, we assess whether fees are fixed or determinable
    and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties. If the
    fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is recognized only as
    payments become due from the customer, provided that all other
    revenue recognition criteria are met. In assessing whether the
    fee is fixed or determinable, we consider the payment terms of
    the transaction, including transactions with payment terms that
    extend beyond twelve months, and our collection experience in
    similar transactions without making concessions, among other
    factors. Our software license arrangements generally do not
    include customer acceptance provisions. However, if an
    arrangement includes an acceptance provision, we record revenue
    only upon the earlier of (1) receipt of written acceptance
    from the customer or (2) expiration of the acceptance
    period.

Our software arrangements often include implementation and
    consulting services that are sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts or as part of the software license
    arrangement. When we determine that such services are not
    essential to the functionality of the licensed software and
    qualify as “service transactions” under

SOP 97-2,

we record revenue separately for the license and service
    elements of these arrangements. Generally, we consider that a
    service is not essential to the functionality of the software
    based on various factors, including if the services may be
    provided by independent third parties experienced in providing
    such consulting and implementation in coordination with
    dedicated customer personnel. If an arrangement does not qualify
    for separate accounting of the license and service elements,
    then license revenue is recognized together with the consulting
    services using either the percentage-of-completion or
    completed-contract method of contract accounting. Contract
    accounting is also applied to any software arrangements that
    include customer-specific acceptance criteria or where the
    license payment is tied to the performance of consulting
    services. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we estimate
    the stage of completion of contracts with fixed or “not to
    exceed” fees based on hours or costs incurred to date as
    compared with estimated total project hours or costs at
    completion. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure
    progress towards completion, revenue is recognized upon
    completion of the contract. When total cost estimates exceed
    revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses when identified.
    The use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting
    requires significant judgment relative to estimating total
    contract costs, including assumptions relative to the length of
    time to complete the project, the nature and complexity of the
    work to be performed, and anticipated changes in salaries and
    other costs. When adjustments in estimated contract costs are
    determined, such revisions may have the effect of adjusting, in
    the current period, the earnings applicable to performance in
    prior periods.

We generally use the residual method to recognize revenues from
    arrangements that include one or more elements to be delivered
    at a future date, when evidence of the fair value of all
    undelivered elements exists. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of



the undelivered elements (e.g., maintenance, consulting and
    training services) based on vendor-specific objective evidence
    (VSOE) is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement
    fee is allocated to the delivered elements (i.e., software
    license). If evidence of the fair value of one or more of the
    undelivered services does not exist, all revenues are deferred
    and recognized when delivery of all of those services has
    occurred or when fair values can be established. We determine
    VSOE of the fair value of services revenues based upon our
    recent pricing for those services when sold separately. VSOE of
    the fair value of maintenance services may also be determined
    based on a substantive maintenance renewal clause, if any,
    within a customer contract. Our current pricing practices are
    influenced primarily by product type, purchase volume,
    maintenance term and customer location. We review services
    revenues sold separately and maintenance renewal rates on a
    periodic basis and update, when appropriate, our VSOE of fair
    value for such services to ensure that it reflects our recent
    pricing experience.

Valuation
    of Assets and Liabilities of Business Combinations

In accordance with business combination accounting, we allocate
    the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and
    intangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and in-process
    research and development based on their estimated fair values.
    Determining these fair values requires management to make
    significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect
    to intangible assets.

Our identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of developed
    technology, core technology, tradenames, customer lists and
    contracts, software support agreements and related relationships
    and consulting contracts. Developed technology consists of
    products that have reached technological feasibility. Core
    technology represents a combination of processes, inventions and
    trade secrets related to the design and development of acquired
    products. Customer lists and contracts and software support
    agreements and related relationships represent the underlying
    relationships and agreements with customers of the acquired
    company’s installed base. We have generally valued
    intangible assets using a discounted cash flow model. Critical
    estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include
    but are not limited to:

•

future expected cash flows from software license sales,
    maintenance and customer support agreements, consulting
    contracts, customer contracts and related customer relationships
    and acquired developed technologies and trademarks and trade
    names;

•

expected costs to develop the in-process research and
    development into commercially viable products and estimating
    cash flows from the projects when completed;

•

the acquired company’s brand awareness and market position,
    as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired
    brand will continue to be used by the combined company; and

•

discount rates used to determine the present value of estimated
    future cash flows.

In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our intangible
    assets based upon the expected period over which we anticipate
    generating economic benefits from the related intangible asset.

Net tangible assets consist of the fair values of tangible
    assets less the fair values of assumed liabilities and
    obligations. Except for deferred revenues and restructuring
    reserves, net tangible assets were generally valued by us at the
    respective carrying amounts recorded by the acquired company, as
    we believed that their carrying values approximated their fair
    values at the acquisition date.

The values assigned to deferred revenue reflect an amount
    equivalent to the estimated cost plus an appropriate profit
    margin to perform the services related to the acquired
    company’s software support contracts. Restructuring
    reserves include the severance costs related to employees of the
    acquired company, planned closure of certain facilities and
    other costs associated with exiting activities of the acquired
    company.

Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed
    to be reasonable at that time, but which are inherently
    uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or
    inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur
    which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions,
    estimates or actual results.

Valuation
    of Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets

Our net goodwill and acquired intangible assets totaled
    $325.1 million and $327.1 million as of
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As described in
    Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements”, we have two reporting units: (1) our
    software products segment, and (2) our services segment. As
    of September 30, 2007 and 2006, goodwill and acquired
    intangible assets in the aggregate attributable to our software
    products segment was $299.9 million and
    $300.9 million, respectively, and attributable to our
    services segment was $25.2 million and $26.2 million,
    respectively.

We assess the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived
    intangible assets on at least an annual basis and whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    value of the asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider
    important



(on an overall company basis and reportable segment basis, as
    applicable) that could trigger an impairment review include
    significant underperformance relative to historical or projected
    future operating results, significant changes in our use of the
    acquired assets or a significant change in the strategy for our
    business, significant negative industry or economic trends, a
    significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period,
    or a reduction of our market capitalization relative to net book
    value.

The goodwill impairment test prescribed by SFAS 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, requires us to
    identify reporting units and to determine estimates of the fair
    values of our reporting units as of the date we test for
    impairment. To conduct these tests of goodwill, the fair value
    of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value. If the
    reporting unit’s carrying value exceeded its fair value, we
    would record an impairment loss equal to the difference between
    the carrying value of goodwill and its fair value. We estimate
    the fair values of our reporting units using discounted cash
    flow valuation models. Those models require estimates of future
    revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital and
    discount rates for each reporting unit. We estimate these
    amounts by evaluating historical trends, current budgets,
    operating plans and industry data. We conduct our annual
    impairment test of goodwill and indefinite lived assets as of
    the end of the third quarter of each fiscal year. We completed
    our annual impairment review as of the end of the third quarter
    of 2007 and concluded that no impairment charge was required as
    of that date.

For long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets other
    than goodwill, we reassess the recoverability of the asset based
    on projected undiscounted future cash flows over the
    asset’s remaining life if an event occurs or circumstances
    change that would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value
    of the reportable segment below its carrying value. When the
    carrying value of the asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows,
    we record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying
    value over the fair value of the asset, determined using
    projected discounted future cash flows of the asset. Determining
    the fair value of our reporting units for the purpose of testing
    the potential impairment of individual assets and goodwill
    requires significant judgment by management. Different judgments
    could yield different results.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial
    statements, we are required to calculate our income tax expense
    based on taxable income by jurisdiction. There are many
    transactions and calculations about which the ultimate tax
    outcome is uncertain; as a result, our calculations involve
    estimates by management. Some of these uncertainties arise as a
    consequence of revenue-sharing, cost-reimbursement and transfer
    pricing arrangements among related entities and the differing
    tax treatment of revenue and cost items across various
    jurisdictions. If we were compelled to revise or to account
    differently for our arrangements, that revision could affect our
    tax liability.

The income tax accounting process also involves estimating our
    actual current tax liability, together with assessing temporary
    differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax
    and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred
    tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our
    consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood
    that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future
    taxable income and, to the extent we believe that it is more
    likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets
    will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance as
    a charge to income tax expense.

As of the end of the second quarter of 2007, a full valuation
    allowance was recorded against our net deferred tax assets
    (consisting primarily of operating loss carryforwards) in the
    U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Based upon our
    operating results over recent years and through June 30,
    2007 as well as an assessment of our expected future results of
    operations, during the third quarter of 2007, we determined that
    it had become more likely than not that we will realize a
    substantial portion of our net deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction. As a result, during the
    third quarter, we released a total of $79.8 million of our
    valuation allowances. Of the $79.8 million valuation
    allowance release, $58.9 million was recorded as a one-time
    income tax benefit, $20.0 million was recorded as a
    reduction to goodwill recorded upon prior acquisitions, and
    $0.9 million was recorded as a decrease to accumulated
    other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity.

As of September 30, 2007, we have a remaining valuation
    allowance of $76.5 million against net deferred tax assets.
    The valuation allowance includes $37.1 million in the U.S.
    against net deferred tax assets consisting primarily of foreign
    tax credits. The valuation allowance also includes
    $39.4 million recorded against net deferred tax assets in
    certain foreign jurisdictions consisting primarily of net
    operating loss carryforwards that will likely expire without
    being utilized.

Net deferred tax assets at September 30, 2007 were
    $97.3 million, comprised of deferred tax assets of
    $210.8 million, partially offset by deferred tax
    liabilities of $36.9 million and a valuation allowance of
    $76.5 million.

Accounting
    for Pensions

We sponsor a frozen pension plan covering mostly inactive
    participants in the United States. We make several assumptions
    that are used in calculating the expense and liability of the
    plans. These key assumptions include the expected long-term rate
    of return



on plan assets and the discount rate. In selecting the expected
    long-term rate of return on assets, we consider the average
    future rate of earnings expected on the funds invested or to be
    invested to provide for the benefits under the pension plan.
    This includes considering the plan’s asset allocations and
    the expected returns likely to be earned over the life of this
    plan. The discount rate reflects the estimated rate at which an
    amount that is invested in a portfolio of high-quality debt
    instruments would provide the future cash flows necessary to pay
    benefits when they come due. In addition, our actuarial
    consultants determine the expense and liabilities of the plan
    using other assumptions for future experience, such as mortality
    rates. The actuarial assumptions used by us may differ
    materially from actual results due to changing market and
    economic conditions or longer or shorter life spans of the
    participants. Our actual results could differ materially from
    those we estimated, which could require us to record a greater
    amount of pension expense in future years. In determining our
    pension cost for 2007, 2006 and 2005, we used a discount rate of
    5.75%, 5.5% and 6.0%, respectively, and an expected return on
    plan assets of 7.5% for each year.

Certain of our foreign subsidiaries also sponsor pension plans.
    Accounting and reporting for these plans requires the use of
    country-specific assumptions for discount rates and expected
    rates of return on assets. We apply a consistent methodology in
    determining the key assumptions that, in addition to future
    experience assumptions such as mortality rates, are used by our
    actuaries to determine our liability and expense for each of
    these plans. In determining our pension cost for 2007, 2006 and
    2005, we used weighted average discount rates of 4.7%, 4.6% and
    5.2%, respectively, and a weighted average expected return on
    plan assets of 3.8%, 3.9% and 4.3%, respectively.

The most sensitive assumptions used in calculating the expense
    and liability of our pension plans are the discount rate and the
    expected return on plan assets. A 50 basis point change to
    our discount rate and expected return on plan assets assumptions
    would not have changed our pension expense for the year ended
    September 30, 2007 by more than $1.2 million. A
    50 basis point decrease in our discount rate assumptions
    would increase our accumulated and projected benefit obligation
    as of September 30, 2007 by approximately $13 million.

Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation

We adopted SFAS 123(R) on July 3, 2005, effective with
    the beginning of our fourth quarter of 2005. SFAS 123(R)
    requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in
    exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
    grant-date fair value of the award using an option pricing
    model. That cost is recognized as an expense over the period
    during which an employee is required to provide service in
    exchange for the award.

In connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R), we altered
    our equity incentive program to use restricted shares and
    restricted stock units as our principal equity incentive awards.
    Our grants of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock
    units have either time-based vesting requirements or
    performance-based vesting requirements, some of which are then
    subject to subsequent time-based restrictions if the
    performance-based targets are achieved. In determining the
    amount of expense to be recorded for restricted shares and
    restricted stock units, judgment is required by us to estimate
    forfeitures of the awards and to assess the probability of
    achievement of performance-based award targets. If actual
    forfeitures or actual performance-based target achievement
    differs from our estimates, our results of operations could be
    impacted.

Allowance
    for Accounts and Other Receivables

Management judgment is required in assessing the collectibility
    of customer accounts and other receivables, for which we
    generally do not require collateral. We maintain allowances for
    doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
    inability of our customers to make required payments. In
    determining the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts,
    management specifically analyzes individual accounts receivable,
    historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer
    credit-worthiness, current economic conditions, accounts
    receivable aging trends and changes in our customer payment
    terms. Our customer base consists of large numbers of
    geographically diverse customers dispersed across many
    industries, and no individual customer comprised more than 10%
    of our net accounts receivable for any period presented. The
    following table summarizes our accounts receivable and related
    reserve balances at September 30, 2007 and 2006:

September 30,



(Dollar amounts in thousands)

Gross accounts receivable

$

220,970

$

185,908

Allowances for doubtful accounts

(3,869

)

(4,900

)

Net accounts receivable

$

217,101

$

181,008

Accounts receivable reserves as a percentage of gross accounts
    receivable

1.8

%

2.6

%



If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
    additional allowances might be required, resulting in future
    operating expenses that are not included in the allowance for
    doubtful accounts. The allowance for bad debts as a percentage
    of gross accounts receivable can vary depending on the level and
    timing of quarterly revenue as well as the timing of the
    resolution of specifically reserved doubtful accounts
    receivable, either via collection or write-off.

Restructuring
    Charges

We periodically record restructuring charges resulting from
    restructuring our operations (including consolidations

and/or

relocations of operations), changes to our strategic plan, or
    managerial responses to declines in demand, increasing costs, or
    other environmental factors. The determination of restructuring
    charges requires management judgment and may include costs
    related to employee benefits, such as costs of severance and
    termination benefits, and estimates of costs for future lease
    commitments on excess facilities, net of estimated future
    sublease income. In determining the amount of the facilities
    charge, we are required to estimate such factors as future
    vacancy rates, the time required to sublet properties and
    sublease rates. These estimates are reviewed quarterly based on
    known real estate market conditions and the credit-worthiness of
    subtenants, and may result in revisions to established facility
    reserves. We had accrued $16.9 million as of
    September 30, 2007 related to excess facilities (compared
    to $20.7 million at September 30, 2006), representing
    gross lease commitments with agreements expiring at various
    dates through 2014 of approximately $37.3 million, net of
    committed and estimated sublease income of approximately
    $20.1 million and a present value factor of
    $0.3 million. We have entered into signed sublease
    arrangements for approximately $17.9 million, with the
    remaining $2.2 million based on future estimated sublease
    arrangements. If our sublease assumptions prove to be
    inaccurate, we may need to make changes in these estimates that
    would affect our results of operations and potentially our
    financial condition.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

September 30,




(in thousands)

Cash and cash equivalents

$

263,271

$

183,448

$

204,423

Activity for the year included the following:

Cash provided by operating activities

$

127,374

$

65,281

$

130,168

Cash used by investing activities

(55,149

)

(94,556

)

(215,032

)

Cash (used) provided by financing activities

(1,024

)

6,427

(4,047

)

Cash provided by operating activities included the following:

Cash disbursements for restructuring and other charges

(14,716

)

(15,239

)

(10,758

)

Cash used by investing activities included the following:

Cash paid to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired

(27,120

)

(75,084

)

(198,897

)

Cash (used) provided by financing activities included the
    following:

Common stock repurchases

(9,952

)

—

—

Cash payments for stock option exchange

—

—

(12,733

)

We invest our cash with highly rated financial institutions and
    in diversified domestic and international money market mutual
    funds. The portfolio is invested in short-term instruments to
    ensure cash is available to meet requirements as needed.

Cash
    and cash equivalents

At September 30, 2007, cash and cash equivalents totaled
    $263.3 million, compared to $183.4 million at
    September 30, 2006 and $204.4 million at
    September 30, 2005. The increase in cash and cash
    equivalents in 2007 is due primarily to $127.4 million of
    cash provided by operations and $9.1 million of proceeds
    from the issuance of common stock (net of cash paid for
    withholding taxes in connection with settlement of restricted
    stock units) partially offset by $31.1 million paid for
    acquisitions, primarily ITEDO and NC Graphics,
    $24.1 million for additions to property and equipment and
    $10.0 million used to repurchase common stock. The decrease
    in cash and cash equivalents in 2006 was due primarily to
    acquisitions of businesses, which used cash of
    $75.1 million, and additions to property and equipment of
    $19.5 million, partially offset by $65.3 million of
    cash provided by operations and $7.8 million provided by
    net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our
    employee stock plans.



Cash
    provided by operating activities

    compared to 2006

Cash provided by operating activities was $127.4 million in
    2007, compared to $65.3 million in 2006. The increase in
    cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to:

•

higher profitability (income before income taxes increased
    $29.5 million to $99.7 million in 2007 from
    $70.2 million in 2006); and

•

lower net income tax payments of $17.8 million in 2007 (net
    of a U.S. federal refund received of $4.1 million) compared
    to $36.6 million in 2006 (including a U.S. federal payment
    made of $9.5 million, after reaching final agreement with
    the IRS regarding liabilities arising from our income tax
    returns for fiscal years 2001 and 2002).

Days sales outstanding (DSO) was 74 days as of
    September 30, 2007 compared to 67 days as of
    September 30, 2006. DSO at the end of 2007 was adversely
    affected by the timing of revenue recorded and the impact of
    extended payment term deals we offered to customers during 2007
    and 2006. We offer these terms to some customers with
    established payment and credit histories.

We provided extended payment terms on internally financed
    transactions accounting for approximately $26 million and
    $51 million of revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
    include non-current receivables from customers related to
    extended payment term contracts totaling $25.3 million and
    $31.1 million at September 30, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

    compared to 2005

Cash provided by operating activities was $65.3 million in
    2006, compared to $130.2 million in 2005. Cash provided by
    operating activities was lower primarily due to:

•

net income tax payments of $36.6 million in 2006 compared
    to net refunds of $23.9 million in 2005 (including a
    U.S. federal refund of $39.5 million); and

•

an increase in customer accounts receivable resulting from an
    increase in revenue and in the amount of accounts receivables
    for which customers have extended payment terms.

Despite the increase in customer accounts receivable, days sales
    outstanding were 67 days at September 30, 2006,
    compared to 68 days at September 30, 2005.

Our operating cash flow in 2006 was adversely impacted by the
    increase in the amount of extended payment terms we offered to
    customers during the year. The amount of financing increased due
    to an increase in large deals in 2006 for which we provided
    financing, particularly in the fourth quarter. We provided
    extended payment terms on transactions accounting for
    approximately $51 million of revenue in 2006, which was
    approximately twice the amount of similar transactions in 2005.

Cash
    used by investing activities

Cash used by investing activities was $55.1 million in
    2007, $94.6 million in 2006 and $215.0 million in
    2005. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had cash expenditures of
    $27.1 million, $75.1 million and $198.9 million,
    respectively, for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired.
    In 2007, we paid net of cash acquired, $6.7 million for NC
    Graphics, $16.6 million for ITEDO, $2.3 million for
    substantially all of the assets of NetRegulus and
    $1.5 million related to the acquisition of the Cadtrain
    assets. In 2006, we paid $64.4 million for Mathsoft,
    $9.9 million for the DENC and Cadtrain acquisitions and
    $0.8 million related to the Arbortext acquisition. In 2005,
    we acquired Arbortext for $191.7 million, net of cash
    acquired. Further, during the third quarter of 2007 we acquired
    the remaining equity interest in a controlled subsidiary for
    $4.0 million. Cash used for additions to property,
    equipment and intangible assets was $24.1 million,
    $19.5 million and $16.1 million in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Our expenditures for property and equipment
    consist primarily of computer equipment, software, office
    equipment and facility improvements.

Cash
    (used) provided by financing activities

Cash (used) provided by financing activities was
    $(1.0) million in 2007, $6.4 million in 2006 and
    $(4.0) million in 2005. The increase in cash used by
    financing activities in 2007 was due primarily to the repurchase
    of 557,000 shares of common stock for approximately
    $10.0 million. The increase in cash provided by financing
    activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to
    payments of $12.7 million in 2005 related to our stock
    option exchange described below. Cash proceeds from the issuance
    of our common stock under our stock plans were
    $15.6 million, $7.8 million and $10.2 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2007, 2006 and 2005 we
    used $6.5 million, $0.1 million and $2.3 million,
    respectively, to pay employee withholding taxes related to
    restricted stock units that vested during the period in lieu of
    issuing shares to employees with respect to those



awards. Cash provided by financing activities in 2006 was net of
    $0.9 million of costs incurred to obtain our revolving
    credit facility described below.

Share
    Repurchase Authorization

In September 1998, our Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to 8.0 million shares of our common stock
    and in July 2000 increased the shares authorized for repurchase
    to 16.0 million. We had repurchased 12.5 million
    shares through the end of 2004 and did not repurchase any
    additional shares until the third quarter of 2007, when our
    Board of Directors authorized us to resume repurchases within
    established parameters. Those parameters permit us to use up to
    $40 million of cash from operations to repurchase our
    shares through May 15, 2008. In 2007, we repurchased
    557,000 shares at a cost of $10.0 million. Since 1998,
    and through September 30, 2007, we repurchased, at a cost
    of $376.8 million, a total of 13.0 million shares of
    the 16.0 million shares authorized. We periodically
    consider repurchasing additional shares. If we were to
    repurchase additional shares, it would reduce our cash balances.

Stock
    Option Exchange

In 2005, we completed a shareholder-approved stock option
    exchange. Employees elected to exchange approximately
    7.3 million stock options for an aggregate of
    $12.7 million in cash payments, which were made in 2005. Of
    this amount, $0.5 million was recorded as compensation
    expense and $12.2 million was recorded as a charge to
    additional paid-in capital in stockholders’ equity, in
    accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R).

Credit
    Facility

On February 21, 2006, we entered into a multi-currency bank
    revolving credit facility. The credit facility consists of a
    $230 million revolving credit facility, which may be
    increased up to an additional $150 million if the existing
    or additional lenders are willing to make increased commitments.
    The credit facility expires on February 20, 2011, when all
    amounts will be due and payable in full.

On November 28, 2007, in connection with the planned
    closing of our acquisition of CoCreate, we borrowed
    approximately $220 million under the credit facility. We
    borrowed this amount in two parts. First, a $36 million
    tranche at an interest rate of 5.8125% per year, the accrued
    interest on which is due on February 28, 2008 and at which
    time the rate will be reset if the principal amount is not
    repaid. Second, a $184 million tranche at an interest rate
    of 5.4375% per year, the accrued interest on which is due on
    May 28, 2008 and at which time the rate will be reset if
    the principal amount is not repaid. The principal amounts
    borrowed are not due until February 10, 2011.

Interest rates under the credit facility range from 0.75% to
    1.50% above the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings
    or are at the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in
    each case based upon our leverage ratio. In addition, we may
    borrow certain foreign currencies at the London
    interbank-offered interest rates for those currencies, with the
    same range above such rates based on our leverage ratio. A
    quarterly commitment fee based on the undrawn portion of the
    credit facility is required to be paid by us, ranging from
    0.125% to 0.30% per year, depending upon our leverage ratio.

The credit facility limits our and our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness;
    incur liens or guarantee obligations; pay dividends and make
    other distributions; make investments and enter into joint
    ventures; dispose of assets; and engage in transactions with
    affiliates, except on an arms-length basis. Under the credit
    facility, we and our material domestic subsidiaries may not
    invest cash or property in, or loan cash to, our foreign
    subsidiaries in aggregate amounts exceeding $25 million for
    any purpose, except in connection with acquisitions of
    businesses, in which case the limit includes an additional
    $50 million. These limitations have been waived to permit
    the CoCreate acquisition. In addition, under the credit
    facility, we and our subsidiaries must maintain specified
    leverage and fixed-charge ratios. Any failure to comply with the
    financial or operating covenants of the credit facility would
    not only prevent us from being able to borrow additional funds,
    but would constitute a default, resulting in, among other
    things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest
    and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We were
    in compliance with all financial and operating covenants of the
    credit facility as of September 30, 2007.

Expectations
    for Fiscal 2008

We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents together with
    cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our
    working capital and capital expenditure requirements through at
    least the next twelve months.

During 2008, we expect to make cash disbursements estimated at
    $14 million for restructuring charges incurred in 2007 and
    prior periods. Capital expenditures for 2008 are currently
    anticipated to be approximately $25 million.



Although we expect positive operating cash flow in 2008, we
    expect our cash balance to decrease at the end of the first
    quarter, primarily due to our acquisition of LBS for
    approximately $16 million, which was completed in the first
    quarter of 2008, and our proposed acquisition of CoCreate for an
    aggregate purchase price of approximately $250 million, net
    of cash acquired and excluding transaction fees, which we expect
    to close in the first quarter of 2008, subject to satisfaction
    of customary closing conditions. We borrowed approximately
    $220 million under our revolving credit facility on
    November 28, 2007 to finance this acquisition, with the
    balance funded from our existing cash.

We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, possible
    strategic transactions on an ongoing basis and at any given time
    may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to
    possible strategic transactions. Our cash position could be
    reduced and we may incur debt obligations to the extent we
    complete any significant transactions.

Contractual
    Obligations

We lease office facilities and certain equipment under operating
    leases that expire at various dates through 2014, including an
    operating lease agreement related to our headquarters office in
    Needham, Massachusetts entered into in 2000, which expires in
    December 2012, subject to certain renewal rights. These leases
    qualify for operating lease accounting treatment and, as such,
    are not included on our balance sheet. At September 30,
    2007, our contractual obligations, including future minimum
    lease payments, net of sublease income, under noncancellable
    operating leases, are as follows:

Payments due by period

Less than

More than

Contractual Obligations

Total

1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

5 years

(in millions)

Capital lease obligations

$

0.7

$

0.5

$

0.2

$

—

$

—

Operating leases(1)

127.6

36.5

52.3

33.6

5.2

Purchase obligations(2)

22.1

16.6

5.4

0.1

—

Pension liabilities(3)

38.3

4.3

8.7

5.7

19.6

Total

$

188.7

$

57.9

$

66.6

$

39.4

$

24.8

As of September 30, 2007, we had letters of credit and bank
    guarantees outstanding of approximately $4.7 million (of
    which $1.4 million was collateralized), primarily related
    to the lease of our headquarters in Needham, Massachusetts.

In November 2007, we borrowed $220 million under our
    revolving credit facility to finance our acquisition of CoCreate.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements

We have not created, and are not party to, any special-purpose
    or off-balance sheet entities for the purpose of raising
    capital, incurring debt or operating parts of our business that
    are not consolidated (to the extent of our ownership interest
    therein) into our financial statements. We have not entered into
    any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have
    subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other
    contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing
    risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a
    variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides
    financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us.



New
    Accounting Pronouncements

In accordance with recently issued accounting pronouncements, we
    will be required to comply with certain changes in accounting
    rules and regulations.

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    issued Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty
    in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109

(FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the
    accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
    enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with
    SFAS 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes.

FIN 48
    prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
    FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
    classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
    periods and disclosure relative to uncertain tax positions.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006, with early adoption encouraged. We will
    adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. We are
    currently evaluating whether or not the adoption of FIN 48
    will have a material effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows.

Fair
    Value Measurements

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

(SFAS 157). This Statement
    defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
    value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement
    applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or
    permit fair value measurements, the FASB having previously
    concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is
    the relevant measurement attribute. Accordingly, this Statement
    does not require any new fair value measurements. This Statement
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. We do not believe the adoption of
    SFAS 157 in fiscal 2009 will have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities

In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 159,

The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
    Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115

(SFAS 159). This Statement permits entities to choose
    to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at
    fair value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by
    providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility
    in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and
    liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge
    accounting provisions. This Statement is expected to expand the
    use of fair value measurement, which is consistent with the
    FASB’s long-term measurement objectives for accounting for
    financial instruments. The fair value option established by this
    Statement permits all entities to choose to measure eligible
    items at fair value at specified election dates. A business
    entity must report unrealized gains and losses on items for
    which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each
    subsequent reporting date. This Statement is effective for
    financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years,
    with early adoption permitted. We do not believe the adoption of
    SFAS 159 in fiscal 2009 will have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We face exposure to financial market risks, including adverse
    movements in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in
    interest rates. These exposures may change over time as business
    practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial results.

Foreign
    currency exchange risk

Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant
    foreign currency exposures relate to Western European countries
    and Japan. We enter into various hedging transactions to manage
    this risk. We do not enter into or hold foreign currency
    derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
    purposes.

Our

non-U.S. revenues

generally are transacted through our

non-U.S. subsidiaries

and typically are denominated in their local currency. In
    addition, our

non-U.S. expenses

that are incurred by our

non-U.S. subsidiaries

typically are denominated in their local currency. Approximately
    61%, 57% and 62% of our total revenue was from sales to
    customers outside of North America in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Approximately 46%, 42% and 45% of our total
    expenses were incurred by our subsidiaries domiciled outside of
    North America in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.



Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations
    arises in part from intercompany transactions, with most
    intercompany transactions occurring between a U.S. dollar
    functional currency entity and a foreign currency denominated
    entity. Intercompany transactions typically are denominated in
    the local currency of the

non-U.S. subsidiary

in order to centralize foreign currency risk. Also, both PTC
    (the parent company) and our

non-U.S. subsidiaries

may transact business with our customers and vendors in a
    currency other than their functional currency (transaction
    risk). In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations as the financial results and balances of our

non-U.S. subsidiaries

are translated into U.S. dollars (translation risk). If
    sales to customers outside of the United States increase, our
    exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could
    increase.

Our foreign currency risk management strategy is principally
    designed to mitigate the future potential financial impact of
    changes in the value of transactions and balances denominated in
    foreign currency, resulting from changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates. Our foreign currency hedging program uses
    forward contracts to manage the foreign currency exposures that
    exist as part of our ongoing business operations. The contracts
    primarily are denominated in European currencies and Japanese
    Yen, and have maturities of less than three months.

Generally, we do not designate foreign currency forward
    contracts as hedges for accounting purposes, and changes in the
    fair value of these instruments are recognized immediately in
    earnings. Because we enter into forward contracts only as an
    economic hedge, any gain or loss on the underlying
    foreign-denominated balance would be offset by the loss or gain
    on the forward contract. Gains and losses on forward contracts
    and foreign denominated receivables and payables are included in
    other income (expense), net. As of September 30, 2007 and
    2006, we had outstanding forward contracts with notional amounts
    equivalent to approximately $91.0 million
    ($40.5 million in Euros, $31.1 million in British
    Pounds, $7.1 million in Japanese Yen, $1.6 million in
    Korean Won and $10.7 million in other currencies) and
    $94.8 million ($32.6 million in Euros,
    $27.8 million in British Pounds, $20.7 million in
    Japanese Yen, $5.4 million in Korean Won and
    $8.3 million in other currencies), respectively.

We periodically use foreign currency option contracts to hedge
    specific forecasted net cash flow transactions that are derived
    from anticipated

non-U.S. revenue.

Foreign currency option contracts are designated as cash flow
    hedges for accounting purposes and changes in the fair value of
    the option contract are deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings when the
    underlying forecasted transaction impacts earnings. As of
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, there were no foreign currency
    option contracts outstanding.

Cash and
    cash equivalents

As of September 30, 2007, cash equivalents were invested in
    highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or
    less when purchased. We invest our cash with highly rated
    financial institutions in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific
    and in diversified domestic and international money market
    mutual funds. At September 30, 2007, we had cash and cash
    equivalents of $93.9 million in the United States,
    $99.0 million in Europe, $50.5 million in Japan and
    $19.9 million in other

non-U.S. countries,

principally in Asia-Pacific. Given the short maturities and
    investment grade quality of the portfolio holdings at
    September 30, 2007, a hypothetical 10% change in interest
    rates would not materially affect the fair value of our cash and
    cash equivalents.

Our invested cash is subject to interest rate fluctuations and,
    for

non-U.S. operations,

foreign currency risk. In a declining interest rate environment,
    we would experience a decrease in interest income. The opposite
    holds true in a rising interest rate environment. Over the past
    several years, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, European
    Central Bank and Bank of England have changed certain benchmark
    interest rates, which have led to declines and increases in
    market interest rates. These changes in market interest rates
    have resulted in fluctuations in interest income earned on our
    cash and cash equivalents. Interest income will continue to
    fluctuate based on changes in market interest rates and levels
    of cash available for investment. Our consolidated cash balances
    were impacted favorably in 2007 and 2006 and unfavorably in 2005
    by the strengthening and weakening, respectively, of foreign
    currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, particularly with
    respect to the Euro and the Japanese Yen.

ITEM 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

The consolidated financial statements and notes to the
    consolidated financial statements are attached as
    APPENDIX A below.

ITEM 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management maintains disclosure controls and procedures as
    defined in

Rules 13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    “Exchange Act”) that are designed to provide
    reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed
    in its reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is
    processed, recorded, summarized and reported



within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
    forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated
    to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, respectively), as appropriate, to
    allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

As required by SEC

Rule 13a-15(b),

we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
    participation of management, including our principal executive
    and principal financial officers, of the effectiveness of the
    design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures
    as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based
    on this evaluation, we concluded that our disclosure controls
    and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2007,
    at the reasonable assurance level, because of the material
    weakness noted in our accounting for income taxes described in
    Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting.

Notwithstanding the existence of the material weakness described
    below, we concluded that the consolidated financial statements
    in this

Form 10-K

fairly present, in all material respects, our financial
    position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim
    and annual periods presented.

Management’s
    Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
    control over financial reporting is defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

of
    the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the
    supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial
    officers and effected by our board of directors, management and
    other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles and includes those
    policies and procedures that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of our assets;

•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of our management and
    directors; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
    assets that could have a material effect on the financial
    statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2007
    using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal
    Control—Integrated Framework

.

A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of
    deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such
    that there is a reasonable possibility that a material
    misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will
    not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.

As of September 30, 2007, we identified a material weakness
    in our internal control over financial reporting because we did
    not maintain effective controls over the accounting for income
    taxes, including the determination and reporting of accrued
    income taxes, deferred taxes and the related income tax
    provision. Specifically, we did not have adequate personnel to
    enable us to properly consider and apply generally accepted
    accounting principles for taxes, review and monitor the accuracy
    and completeness of the components of the income tax provision
    calculations and the related deferred taxes and accrued income
    taxes, ensure that the rationale for certain tax positions was
    appropriate, and ensure that effective oversight of the work
    performed by our outside tax advisors was exercised. This
    material weakness resulted in the restatement of our unaudited
    interim consolidated financial statements for the third quarter
    of 2007. In addition, until remediated, this material weakness
    could result in a misstatement in the tax-related accounts
    described above that would result in a material misstatement to
    our interim or annual consolidated financial statements and
    disclosures that would not be prevented or detected.

As a result of the material weakness described above, our
    management has concluded that, as of September 30, 2007,
    our internal control over financial reporting was not effective.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2007 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears under
    Item 8.



Remediation
    Initiatives

Our management is in the process of actively addressing and
    remediating the material weakness in internal control over
    financial reporting described above. During 2008, we will
    undertake the following actions to remediate the material
    weakness identified:

•

Hire additional personnel and retain professional advisors
    trained and experienced in income tax accounting;

•

Re-evaluate the design of income tax accounting processes and
    controls and implement new and improved processes and controls,
    if warranted; and

•

Increase the level of review and discussion of significant tax
    matters and supporting documentation with senior finance
    management.

As part of our 2008 assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting, our management will conduct sufficient
    testing and evaluation of the controls to be implemented as part
    of this remediation plan to ascertain that they operate
    effectively.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial
    reporting (as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    September 30, 2007 that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
    over financial reporting.

Impact
    of the Revenue Restatement on Management’s Assessment of
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting

As described in Note B to our consolidated financial
    statements included in “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” in Item 8, the Audit Committee of
    our Board of Directors concluded on October 29, 2007 that
    restatement of our previously issued financial statements was
    required for the effect of certain transactions involving
    Toshiba Corporation of Japan, for which we recorded revenue of
    approximately $41 million during fiscal 2001 through 2006.
    In this

Form 10-K

for fiscal 2007, we are restating our consolidated financial
    statements (and related disclosures) as of September 30,
    2006 and for years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.

In connection with our assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as of
    September 30, 2007, we considered the accounting error
    related to certain transactions involving Toshiba that resulted
    in the restatement and concluded that such accounting error is
    not indicative of the existence of a material weakness in our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2007. The circumstances that gave rise to the
    accounting error involve arrangements established as early as
    2001, and the employees associated with those arrangements have
    not been employed with us since 2004. In fiscal 2005 and since
    that time, we enhanced our internal control environment in
    connection with our initial and subsequent compliance with the
    provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The enhancements
    to our control environment included providing revenue
    recognition and ethics training to our employees, including
    employees in the affected region, among other items. In
    addition, beginning in early fiscal 2007, we implemented
    additional order confirmation procedures with the customer in
    question to confirm the arrangement underlying any transactions
    completed in fiscal 2007. Finally, our Audit Committee has
    conducted an independent investigation to confirm that the error
    that resulted in the restatement did not impact any transactions
    other than those included in the restatement.

ITEM 9B.

Other
    Information

On November 28, 2007, we borrowed approximately
    $220 million under our revolving credit facility. A
    discussion of the terms and conditions of this borrowing and the
    revolving credit facility is contained in Item 7.
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” —
    “Liquidity and Capital Resources” —
    “Credit Facility” of this Annual Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.



PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this item with respect to our
    directors and executive officers, including the qualifications
    of certain members of the Audit Committee of our Board of
    Directors, may be found in the sections captioned
    “Proposal 1: Elect Two Directors,” “Our
    Directors,” “The Committees of the Board,”
    “Certain Relationships” and “Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” appearing in our
    2008 Proxy Statement. We incorporate that information into this
    Item 10 by reference.

Our executive officers are:

Name

Age

Position

C. Richard Harrison


Chief Executive Officer and President

Barry F. Cohen


Executive Vice President, Strategic Services and Partners

Paul J. Cunningham


Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales

Anthony DiBona


Executive Vice President, Global Maintenance Support

James E. Heppelmann


Executive Vice President and Chief Product Officer

Cornelius F. Moses


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Aaron C. von Staats


Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Clerk

Mr. Harrison has been Chief Executive Officer and President
    of PTC since March 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Harrison served
    as President and Chief Operating Officer from August 1994 to
    February 2000.

Mr. Cohen has been Executive Vice President, Strategic
    Services and Partners since August 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Cohen served as Executive Vice President, Marketing and
    Human Resources from December 2000 to July 2002.

Mr. Cunningham has been Executive Vice President, Worldwide
    Sales since October 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Cunningham
    served as Executive Vice President, Americas Sales from July
    2000 to September 2002.

Mr. DiBona has been Executive Vice President, Global
    Maintenance Support since April 2003. Prior to that,
    Mr. DiBona led the PTC Global Business Partner Group from
    April 2000 to April 2003.

Mr. Heppelmann has been Executive Vice President and Chief
    Product Officer since February 2003. Prior to that,
    Mr. Heppelmann served as Executive Vice President, Software
    Solutions and Chief Technology Officer from June 2001 to January
    2003.

Mr. Moses joined PTC in June 2003 as our Executive Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and since March
    2004 has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer. Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Moses was Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of Axcelis Technologies,
    Inc., a semiconductor equipment manufacturer, from October 2000
    to June 2003.

Mr. von Staats has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel
    and Clerk since February 2003. Prior to that, he served as Vice
    President, North American Counsel from December 2001 through
    January 2003 and prior to that served as Regional Corporate
    Counsel, North America from June 1998 through November 2001.

Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics

We have adopted the PTC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a
    code of ethics that applies to our Chief Executive Officer,
    Chief Financial Officer, and Controller, as well as others. A
    copy of the PTC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is publicly
    available on our website at www.ptc.com. If we make any
    substantive amendments to the PTC Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from
    a provision of the code to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer or Controller, we will disclose the nature of
    such amendment or waiver in a current report on

Form 8-K.

ITEM 11.

Executive
    Compensation

Information with respect to director and executive compensation
    may be found under the headings captioned “Director
    Compensation” and “Executive Compensation”
    appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement. Such information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to security ownership may be found
    under the heading captioned “Information About PTC Common
    Stock Ownership” of our 2008 Proxy Statement. Such
    information is incorporated herein by reference.



The following table sets forth information regarding our equity
    compensation plans as of September 30, 2007.

EQUITY
    COMPENSATION PLANS

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

Number of securities

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

remaining available for

outstanding options,

outstanding options

future issuance under

Plan Category

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

equity compensation plans

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

2000 Equity Incentive Plan

6,777,357

(1)

$

9.86

(2)

4,457,108

Terminated equity incentive plans

1,135,197

$

30.05

—

2000 Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan

(3)

—

—

2,908,672

Total

7,912,554

(1)

$

13.93

(2)

7,365,780

Equity compensation plans not approved by security
    holders

(4)

5,232,872

(5)

$

16.13

(5)

—

Total

13,145,426

(1)(5)

$

14.99

(2)(5)

7,365,780

Non-Stockholder
    Approved Plan

PTC maintained the 1997 Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan until
    March 10, 2005, at which time, in connection with
    stockholder approval of certain amendments to the 2000 EIP, we
    terminated all future offerings under that plan.

Plans
    Assumed in Connection with a Merger or Other Acquisition
    Transaction

PTC has also assumed stock options under certain equity plans in
    connection with certain mergers and acquisitions. These plans
    are all inactive and no future options or other equity awards
    may be granted under them.

ITEM 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence

Information with respect to this item may be found under the
    headings “Independence,” “Review of Transactions
    with Related Persons” and “Transactions with Related
    Persons” appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement. Such
    information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Information with respect to this item may be found under the
    heading “Information About Our Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm” appearing in our 2008 Proxy
    Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents
    Filed as Part of

Form 10-K

1.

Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
    September 30, 2007 and 2006

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Operations
    for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-2

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
    for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-3

Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended September 30,
    2007, 2006 and 2005

F-4

Consolidated Statements of
    Comprehensive Income for the years ended September 30,
    2007, 2006 and 2005

F-4

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements

F-5

Report of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm

F-51

2.

Financial Statement Schedules

Schedules have been omitted since they are either
    not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise
    included.

3.

Exhibits

The list of exhibits in the Exhibit Index is
    incorporated herein by reference

(b)

Exhibits

We hereby file the exhibits listed in the attached
    Exhibit Index.

(c)

Financial
    Statement Schedules

None.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized on the 29th day of November, 2007.

Parametric Technology
    Corporation

By:

/s/

C.
    Richard Harrison

C. Richard Harrison

Chief Executive Officer and
    President



POWER OF
    ATTORNEY

We, the undersigned officers and directors of Parametric
    Technology Corporation, hereby severally constitute Cornelius F.
    Moses, III and Aaron C. von Staats, Esq., and each of
    them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to
    them, and each of them singly, to sign for us and in our names
    in the capacities indicated below any and all subsequent
    amendments to this report, and to file the same, with exhibits
    thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and
    confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact may do or
    cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated
    below, on the 28th day of November, 2007.

Signature

Title

(i) Principal Executive Officer:

/s/

C.
    Richard Harrison

C.
    Richard Harrison

Chief Executive Officer and President

(ii) Principal Financial and Accounting Officer:

/s/

Cornelius
    F. Moses, III

Cornelius
    F. Moses, III

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

(iii) Board of Directors:

/s/

Noel
    G. Posternak

Noel
    G. Posternak

Chairman of the Board of Directors

/s/

C.
    Richard Harrison

C.
    Richard Harrison

Director

/s/

Robert
    N. Goldman

Robert
    N. Goldman

Director

/s/

Donald
    K. Grierson

Donald
    K. Grierson

Director

/s/

Oscar
    B. Marx, III

Oscar
    B. Marx, III

Director

/s/

Joseph
    M. O’Donnell

Joseph
    M. O’Donnell

Director

/s/

Michael
    E. Porter

Michael
    E. Porter

Director



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Exhibit


.1(a)

—

Restated Articles of Organization of Parametric Technology
    Corporation adopted February 4, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
    our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
    March 30, 1996 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by
    reference).


.1(b)

—

Articles of Amendment to Restated Articles of Organization
    adopted February 9, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 4.1(b) to our
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-01297)
    and incorporated herein by reference).


.1(c)

—

Articles of Amendment to Restated Articles of Organization
    adopted February 13, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 4.1(b) to our
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-22169)
    and incorporated herein by reference).


.1(d)

—

Articles of Amendment to Restated Articles of Organization
    adopted February 10, 2000 (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2000
    (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.1(e)

—

Certificate of Vote of Directors establishing Series A Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1(e) to our
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
    30, 2000 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by
    reference).


.1(f)

—

Articles of Amendment to Restated Articles of Organization
    adopted February 28, 2006 (filed as Exhibit 3.1(f) to our
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April
    1, 2006 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.2

—

By-Laws, as amended and restated, of Parametric Technology
    Corporation (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to our Annual Report on Form
    10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 (File No.
    0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.1

—

Rights Agreement effective as of January 5, 2001 between
    Parametric Technology Corporation and American Stock Transfer
    & Trust Company (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our Annual Report
    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 (File
    No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.1.1*

—

Parametric Technology Corporation 2000 Equity Incentive Plan
    (filed as Exhibit 10.1.1 to our Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (File
    No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.1.2*

—

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Non-Employee Director)
    (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
    the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and
    incorporated herein by reference).


.1.3*

—

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Employee) (filed as Exhibit
    10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
    ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein
    by reference).


.1.4

—

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Certificate (U.S.) (filed as
    Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
    quarter ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated
    herein by reference).


.1.5

—

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Certificate (Non-U.S.) (filed as
    Exhibit 10.4 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
    quarter ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated
    herein by reference).


.1.6*

—

Form of Incentive Stock Option Certificate (filed as Exhibit
    10.5 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
    ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein
    by reference).


.1.7*

—

Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Certificate (filed as Exhibit
    10.6 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
    ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein
    by reference).


.1.8*

—

Form of Stock Appreciation Right Certificate (filed as Exhibit
    10.7 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
    ended July 2, 2005 (Filed No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein
    by reference).


.2*

—

Parametric Technology Corporation 1997 Incentive Stock Option
    Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
    for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2004 (File No. 0-18059) and
    incorporated herein by reference).


.3*

—

Amendment to Parametric Technology Corporation 1997 Incentive
    Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report
    on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2001 (File
    No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.4

—

Parametric Technology Corporation 1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option
    Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
    for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2004 (File No. 0-18059) and
    incorporated herein by reference).


.6*

—

Parametric Technology Corporation 1996 Directors Stock
    Option Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to our Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999
    (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.7*

—

Computervision Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan as amended
    September 15, 1994, April 18, 1995 and December 5, 1996 (filed
    as Exhibit 10.3 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
    Computervision Corporation for the fiscal year ended December
    31, 1996 (File No. 1-7760/0-20290) and incorporated herein by
    reference).



Exhibit

Number


.8.1*

—

Executive Agreement with C. Richard Harrison, Chief Executive
    Officer, dated August 29, 2006 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2006 (File No.
    0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.8.2*

—

First Amendment dated November 28, 2007 to Executive Agreement
    with C. Richard Harrison, Chief Executive Officer, dated August
    29, 2006.


.9.1*

—

Form of Executive Agreement entered into with each of Mr. Moses,
    Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cunningham, Mr. Heppelmann, Mr. DiBona, and Mr.
    von Staats. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form
    8-K dated August 29, 2006 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated
    herein by reference).


.9.2*

—

Form of First Amendment dated November 28, 2007 to Executive
    Agreement entered into with each of Mr. Moses, Mr. Cohen, Mr.
    Cunningham, Mr. Heppelmann, Mr. DiBona, and Mr. von Staats dated
    August 29, 2006.


.10*

—

Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement with Michael E. Porter
    dated July 28, 2005 (filed as Exhibit 1.1 to our Current Report
    on Form 8-K filed on July 29, 2005 (File No. 0-18059) and
    incorporated herein by reference).


.11*

—

PTC Executive Incentive Performance Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.22
    to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2004 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by
    reference).


.12*

—

Director compensation information (filed as Exhibit 10 to our
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March
    31, 2007 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by
    reference).


.13*

—

Compensatory arrangements with Executive Officers.


.14

—

Lease dated December 14, 1999 by and between PTC and Boston
    Properties Limited Partnership (filed as Exhibit 10.21 to our
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
    30, 2000 (File No. 0-18059) and incorporated herein by
    reference).


.15

—

Amended and Restated Lease Agreement dated as of January 1, 1995
    between United Trust Fund Limited Partnership and Computervision
    Corporation (filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form
    10-K of Computervision Corporation for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-7760/0-20290) and incorporated
    herein by reference).


.16

—

Credit Agreement dated February 21, 2006 by and among Parametric
    Technology Corporation, KeyBank National Association, Bank of
    America, N.A., Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, Sovereign Bank,
    Citicorp USA, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank,
    National Association (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2006
    (File No 0-18059) and incorporated herein by reference).


.1

—

Subsidiaries of Parametric Technology Corporation.


.1

—

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm.


.1

—

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to
    Exchange Act Rules 13(a)-14(a) and 15d-14(a).


.2

—

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to
    Exchange Act Rules 13(a)-14(a) and 15d-14(a).


**

—

Certification of Periodic Financial Report Pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350.

*

Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement in which an executive officer or director of PTC
    participates.

**

Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report
    and is not filed as a part of it.



APPENDIX A

PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in
    thousands, except per share data)

September 30,



Restated

Note B

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

263,271

$

183,448

Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of
    $3,869 and $4,900 at September 30, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively

217,101

181,008

Prepaid expenses

23,972

20,495

Other current assets (Note A)

62,922

51,824

Deferred tax assets

27,365

1,341

Total current assets

594,631

438,116

Property and equipment, net

54,745

51,603

Goodwill

244,497

249,252

Acquired intangible assets, net

80,555

77,870

Deferred tax assets

69,969

9,148

Other assets

45,916

75,398

Total assets

$

1,090,313

$

901,387

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

18,715

$

17,109

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities

55,138

52,128

Accrued compensation and benefits

80,595

72,632

Accrued income taxes

16,857

5,761

Customer advances (Note B)

40,297

39,475

Deferred revenue (Note A)

218,740

197,769

Total current liabilities

430,342

384,874

Other liabilities (Notes C and M)

57,040

97,413

Deferred revenue (Note A)

8,424

13,228

Commitments and contingencies (Note H)

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 5,000 shares
    authorized; none issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 500,000 shares
    authorized; 114,704 and 111,880 shares issued and
    outstanding at September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively

1,147

1,119

Additional paid-in capital

1,759,459

1,723,570

Accumulated deficit

(1,132,565

)

(1,276,221

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(33,534

)

(42,596

)

Total stockholders’ equity

594,507

405,872

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

1,090,313

$

901,387

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

F-1


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in
    thousands, except per share data)

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

Revenue:

License

$

296,125

$

263,471

$

207,222

Service

645,154

584,512

500,753

Total revenue

941,279

847,983

707,975

Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue

16,083

12,218

8,444

Cost of service revenue

274,727

257,522

199,798

Sales and marketing

292,215

273,018

243,758

Research and development

162,351

146,957

118,267

General and administrative

79,777

77,634

63,605

Amortization of acquired intangible assets (Note F)

7,467

6,074

1,638

In-process research and development


2,100


Restructuring and other charges (credits) (Note C)

15,347

5,947

(1,307

)

Total costs and expenses

848,511

781,470

634,933

Operating income

92,768

66,513

73,042

Interest income

9,868

5,443

6,878

Other expense, net

(2,976

)

(1,744

)

(1,352

)

Income before income taxes

99,660

70,212

78,568

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

(43,996

)

13,408

5,381

Net income

$

143,656

$

56,804

$

73,187

Earnings per share—Basic

(Note A)

$

1.27

$

0.52

$

0.67

Earnings per share—Diluted

(Note A)

$

1.22

$

0.50

$

0.65

Weighted average shares outstanding—Basic

112,734

109,849

108,536

Weighted average shares outstanding—Diluted

117,494

113,382

111,981

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

F-2


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in
    thousands)

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

143,656

$

56,804

$

73,187

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Stock-based compensation

36,445

38,207

15,466

Depreciation and amortization

39,199

33,887

25,881

Provision for loss on accounts receivable

1,916

1,525

1,624

Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes

(70,659

)

(1,553

)

(8,328

)

In-process research and development


2,100


Other non-cash costs (credits), net


(64

)

(266

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

(2,784

)

(15,657

)

(10,313

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(7,343

)

(9,892

)

(13,355

)

Customer advances


7,685

15,534

Accrued compensation and benefits

3,787

2,547

7,349

Deferred revenue

(2,387

)

3,655

6,711

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

9,987

(21,811

)

29,809

Other current assets and prepaid expenses

(1,073

)

3,215

2,616

Other noncurrent assets (Note A)

(22,853

)

(38,164

)

(15,909

)

Other noncurrent liabilities

(1,449

)

2,797

(568

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

127,374

65,281

130,168

Cash flows from investing activities:

Additions to property and equipment

(24,057

)

(19,472

)

(14,958

)

Additions to other intangible assets

—

—

(1,177

)

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(27,120

)

(75,084

)

(198,897

)

Acquisition of remaining equity interest in a controlled
    subsidiary

(3,972

)

—

—

Net cash used by investing activities

(55,149

)

(94,556

)

(215,032

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

15,649

7,831

10,162

Payments of withholding taxes in connection with settlement of
    restricted stock units

(6,533

)

(117

)

(2,323

)

Repurchases of common stock

(9,952

)

—

—

Payments to employees for stock option exchange

—

—

(12,733

)

Credit facility origination costs

—

(897

)

—

Tax benefit from stock-based awards



1,117

Payments of capital lease obligations

(496

)

(442

)

(270

)

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

(1,024

)

6,427

(4,047

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

8,622

1,873

(1,553

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

79,823

(20,975

)

(90,464

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

183,448

204,423

294,887

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

263,271

$

183,448

$

204,423

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Property and equipment acquired under capital leases

$

—

$


$

1,521

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

F-3


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Restated (Note B)

(in thousands)

Accumulated

Additional

Other

Total

Common Stock

Paid-in

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Shares

Amount

Capital

Deficit

Income (Loss)

Equity

Balance as of October 1, 2004

(as previously
    reported)

107,804

$

1,078

$

1,664,038

$

(1,387,150

)

$

(36,015

)

$

241,951

Restatement adjustments

—

—

2,280

(19,062

)

(683

)

(17,465

)

Balance as of October 1, 2004

(Restated)

107,804

1,078

1,666,318

(1,406,212

)

(36,698

)

224,486

Common stock issued for employee stock-based awards

2,370


10,138

—

—

10,162

Shares surrendered by employees to pay taxes related to
    restricted stock units

(144

)

(2

)

(2,321

)

—

—

(2,323

)

Stock option exchange for cash

—

—

(12,246

)

—

—

(12,246

)

Compensation expense from stock-based awards

—

—

14,977

—

—

14,977

Tax benefit realized from stock-based awards

—

—


—

—


Net income

—

—

—

73,187

—

73,187

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

(1,464

)

(1,464

)

Change in unrealized gain on investments

—

—

—

—

1,030

1,030

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

(11,654

)

(11,654

)

Balance as of September 30, 2005

(Restated)

110,030

1,100

1,677,616

(1,333,025

)

(48,786

)

296,905

Common stock issued for employee stock-based awards

1,850


7,812

—

—

7,831

Shares surrendered by employees to pay taxes related to
    restricted stock units

—

—

(117

)

—

—

(117

)

Compensation expense from stock-based awards

—

—

38,207

—

—

38,207

Tax benefit realized from stock-based awards

—

—


—

—


Net income

—

—

—

56,804

—

56,804

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

1,742

1,742

Change in unrealized gain on investments

—

—

—

—

(443

)

(443

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

4,891

4,891

Balance as of September 30, 2006

(Restated)

111,880

1,119

1,723,570

(1,276,221

)

(42,596

)

405,872

Common stock issued for employee stock-based awards

3,725


15,612

—

—

15,649

Shares surrendered by employees to pay taxes related to
    restricted stock units

(344

)

(3

)

(6,530

)

—

—

(6,533

)

Compensation expense from stock-based awards

—

—

36,445

—

—

36,445

Tax benefit realized from stock-based awards

—

—


—

—


Net income

—

—

—

143,656

—

143,656

Repurchases of common stock

(557

)

(6

)

(9,946

)

—

—

(9,952

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

5,997

5,997

Change in unrealized gain on investments

—

—

—

—

(680

)

(680

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

3,745

3,745

Balance as of September 30, 2007

114,704

$

1,147

$

1,759,459

$

(1,132,565

)

$

(33,534

)

$

594,507

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in thousands)

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

Comprehensive income:

Net income

$

143,656

$

56,804

$

73,187

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:

Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $0 for
    all periods

5,997

1,742

(1,464

)

Change in unrealized gain on investment securities, net of tax
    of $0 for all periods

(680

)

(443

)

1,030

Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $1,947 for
    2007 and $0 for 2006 and 2005

3,745

4,891

(11,654

)

Other comprehensive income (loss)

9,062

6,190

(12,088

)

Comprehensive income

$

152,718

$

62,994

$

61,099

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

F-4


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A.

Description
    of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

Business

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) was incorporated in 1985
    and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts. PTC develops,
    markets and supports product lifecycle management (PLM) software
    solutions and related services that help companies improve their
    processes for developing physical and information products. Our
    solutions, which include a suite of mechanical computer-aided
    design and document authoring tools (our Desktop Solutions) and
    a range of Internet-based collaboration, content and process
    management, and publishing technologies (our Enterprise
    Solutions), enable companies to create digital product content
    as represented by product designs and component-based documents,
    collaborate globally on the development of content with
    cross-functional teams consisting of members within an
    organization and from the extended enterprise, control content
    and automate processes over the course of a product’s
    lifecycle, configure content to match products and services, and
    communicate relevant product information across the extended
    enterprise and to customers through multiple channels using
    dynamic publications. Our software solutions are complemented by
    our services and technical support organizations, as well as
    third-party resellers and other strategic partners, who provide
    training, consulting, ancillary product offerings,
    implementation and support to customers worldwide.

Basis of
    Presentation

Our fiscal year-end is September 30. The consolidated
    financial statements include Parametric Technology Corporation,
    the parent company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, including
    those operating outside the U.S. All intercompany balances
    and transactions have been eliminated in the financial
    statements.

As described below, effective on February 28, 2006, we
    implemented a reverse stock split pursuant to which every five
    shares of issued and outstanding common stock of PTC were
    automatically combined into two issued and outstanding shares of
    common stock without any change in the par value of such shares.
    Except for par values, all references in these financial
    statements and notes to the number of shares of common stock,
    restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options and
    to such per share amounts have been restated to reflect this
    reverse stock split.

We prepare our financial statements under generally accepted
    accounting principles that require management to make estimates
    and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and the related
    disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

For our

non-U.S. operations

where the functional currency is the local currency, we
    translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at
    the balance sheet date and record translation adjustments in
    stockholders’ equity. For our

non-U.S. operations

where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, we
    remeasure monetary assets and liabilities using exchange rates
    in effect at the balance sheet date and nonmonetary assets and
    liabilities at historical rates and record resulting exchange
    gains or losses in other expense, net in the statement of
    operations. We translate income statement amounts at average
    rates for the period. Transaction gains and losses are recorded
    in other expense, net in the statement of operations.

Revenue
    Recognition

We derive revenues from three primary sources: (1) software
    licenses, (2) maintenance services and (3) consulting
    and training services. Revenue by type for 2007, 2006 and 2005
    was as follows:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

License revenue

$

296,125

$

263,471

$

207,222

Maintenance services revenue

408,412

369,186

340,403

Consulting and training services revenue

236,742

215,326

160,350

Total revenue

$

941,279

$

847,983

$

707,975

While we apply the guidance of Statement of Position (SOP)

No. 97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition,

and Statement of Position

No. 98-9,

Modification of

SOP 97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain
    Transactions,

both issued by the

F-5


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, as well as
    SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 104,

Revenue Recognition
    in Financial Statements,

we exercise judgment and use
    estimates in connection with the determination of the amounts of
    software license and services revenues to be recognized in each
    accounting period.

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize revenue when: (1) persuasive
    evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has
    occurred (generally, FOB shipping point or electronic
    distribution), (3) the fee is fixed or determinable, and
    (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our
    license revenues are recognized in this manner.

Our software is distributed primarily through our direct sales
    force. In addition, we have an indirect distribution channel
    through alliances with resellers and, for our Mathsoft products,
    with distributors. Revenue arrangements with resellers are
    recognized on a sell-through basis; that is, when we receive
    persuasive evidence that the reseller has sold the products to
    an end-user customer. We do not offer contractual rights of
    return, stock balancing, or price protection to our resellers,
    and actual product returns from them have been insignificant to
    date. As a result, we do not maintain reserves for reseller
    product returns and related allowances. In contrast, revenue
    arrangements with distributors of our Mathsoft products have a
    contractual right to exchange product and are recognized on a
    sell-in basis; that is, when we ship the products to the
    distributor. As of September 30, 2007, the value of product
    inventory held by distributors and the accrual that we have
    recorded for estimated product returns were not material.

At the time of each sale transaction, we must make an assessment
    of the collectibility of the amount due from the customer.
    Revenue is only recognized at that time if management deems that
    collection is probable. In making this assessment, we consider
    customer credit-worthiness and historical payment experience. At
    that same time, we assess whether fees are fixed or determinable
    and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties. If the
    fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is recognized only as
    payments become due from the customer, provided that all other
    revenue recognition criteria are met. In assessing whether the
    fee is fixed or determinable, we consider the payment terms of
    the transaction, including transactions with payment terms that
    extend beyond twelve months, and our collection experience in
    similar transactions without making concessions, among other
    factors. Our software license arrangements generally do not
    include customer acceptance provisions. However, if an
    arrangement includes an acceptance provision, we record revenue
    only upon the earlier of (1) receipt of written acceptance
    from the customer or (2) expiration of the acceptance
    period.

Our software arrangements often include implementation and
    consulting services that are sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts or as part of the software license
    arrangement. When we determine that such services are not
    essential to the functionality of the licensed software and
    qualify as “service transactions” under

SOP 97-2,

we record revenue separately for the license and service
    elements of these arrangements. Generally, we consider that a
    service is not essential to the functionality of the software
    based on various factors, including if the services may be
    provided by independent third parties experienced in providing
    such consulting and implementation in coordination with
    dedicated customer personnel. If an arrangement does not qualify
    for separate accounting of the license and service elements,
    then license revenue is recognized together with the consulting
    services using either the percentage-of-completion or
    completed-contract method of contract accounting. Contract
    accounting is also applied to any software arrangements that
    include customer-specific acceptance criteria or where the
    license payment is tied to the performance of consulting
    services. Under the percentage-of- completion method, we
    estimate the stage of completion of contracts with fixed or
    “not to exceed” fees based on hours or costs incurred
    to date as compared with estimated total project hours or costs
    at completion. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure
    progress towards completion, revenue is recognized upon
    completion of the contract. When total cost estimates exceed
    revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses when identified.
    The use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting
    requires significant judgment relative to estimating total
    contract costs, including assumptions relative to the length of
    time to complete the project, the nature and complexity of the
    work to be performed, and anticipated changes in salaries and
    other costs. When adjustments in estimated contract costs are
    determined, such revisions may have the effect of adjusting, in
    the current period, the earnings applicable to performance in
    prior periods.

We generally use the residual method to recognize revenues from
    arrangements that include one or more elements to be delivered
    at a future date, when evidence of the fair value of all
    undelivered elements exists. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of the undelivered elements (e.g., maintenance, consulting
    and training services) based on vendor-specific objective
    evidence (VSOE) is deferred and the remaining portion of the
    arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements (i.e.,
    software license). If evidence of the fair value of one or more
    of the undelivered services does not exist, all revenues are
    deferred and recognized when delivery of all of those services
    has occurred or when fair values can be established. We
    determine VSOE of the fair value of services revenues based upon
    our recent pricing for those services when sold separately. VSOE
    of the fair value of maintenance services may also be determined
    based on a substantive maintenance renewal clause, if any,
    within a customer

F-6


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

contract. Our current pricing practices are influenced primarily
    by product type, purchase volume, maintenance term and customer
    location. We review services revenues sold separately and
    maintenance renewal rates on a periodic basis and update, when
    appropriate, our VSOE of fair value for such services to ensure
    that it reflects our recent pricing experience.

Significant incremental discounts offered in multiple-element
    arrangements that would be characterized as separate elements
    are infrequent and are allocated to software license revenues
    under the residual method. In limited circumstances, where a
    customer receives a subscription-based license, license revenue
    is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. In
    limited circumstances, where the right to use the software
    license is contingent upon current payments of maintenance, fees
    for software and maintenance are recognized ratably over the
    initial maintenance term.

Maintenance services generally include rights to unspecified
    upgrades (when and if available), telephone and Internet-based
    support, updates and bug fixes. Maintenance revenue is
    recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract on
    a straight-line basis. It is uncommon for us to offer a
    specified upgrade to an existing product; however, in such
    instances, all revenue of the arrangement is deferred until the
    future upgrade is delivered.

When consulting qualifies for separate accounting, consulting
    revenues under time and materials billing arrangements are
    recognized as the services are performed. Consulting revenues
    under fixed-priced contracts are generally recognized using the
    percentage-of-completion method. If there is a significant
    uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment
    for the consulting services, revenue is deferred until the
    uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. Reimbursements of
    out-of-pocket expenditures incurred in connection with providing
    consulting services are included in services revenue, with the
    offsetting expense recorded in cost of services revenue.

Training services include

on-site

training, classroom training, and computer-based training and
    assessment. Training revenues are recognized as the related
    training services are provided.

Deferred
    Revenue

Deferred revenue primarily relates to software maintenance
    agreements billed to customers for which the services have not
    yet been provided. The liability associated with performing
    these services is included in deferred revenue and, if not yet
    paid, the related amount is included in other current assets.
    Billed but uncollected maintenance-related amounts included in
    other current assets at September 30, 2007 and 2006 were
    $59.9 million and $50.0 million, respectively.
    Deferred revenue consisted of the following:

September 30,



(in thousands)

Deferred maintenance revenue

$

196,881

$

180,088

Deferred other service revenue

22,394

22,956

Deferred license revenue

7,889

7,953

Total deferred revenue

$

227,164

$

210,997

Cash,
    Cash Equivalents and Marketable Investments

Our cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable
    investments are invested in debt instruments of financial
    institutions, government entities and corporations and in mutual
    funds. We have established guidelines relative to credit
    ratings, diversification and maturities that are intended to
    maintain safety and liquidity. Cash equivalents include highly
    liquid investments with maturity periods of three months or less
    when purchased. Short-term investments include those investments
    with maturities in excess of three months but less than one
    year. Marketable investments are those with maturities in excess
    of one year. At September 30, 2007 and 2006, marketable
    investments were $0.1 million and $1.1 million,
    respectively, which we included in other assets on the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Our cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable
    investments are classified as available for sale and reported at
    fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in the
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of
    stockholders’ equity and amortization or accretion of
    premium or discount included in interest income.

F-7


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Concentration
    of Credit Risk and Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for
    cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts
    payable approximate their fair value due to their short
    maturities. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentration of credit risk consist primarily of investments,
    trade accounts receivable and foreign currency derivative
    instruments. Our cash, cash equivalents, investments and foreign
    currency derivatives are placed with financial institutions with
    high credit standings. Our credit risk for derivatives is also
    mitigated due to the short-term nature of the contracts. Our
    customer base consists of large numbers of geographically
    diverse customers dispersed across many industries, and no
    individual customer comprised more than 10% of our net trade
    accounts receivable as of September 30, 2007 or 2006.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated
    losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make
    required payments. In determining the adequacy of the allowance
    for doubtful accounts, management specifically analyzes
    individual accounts receivable, historical bad debts, customer
    concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic
    conditions, accounts receivable aging trends and changes in our
    customer payment terms. Our allowance for doubtful accounts on
    trade accounts receivable was $3.9 million as of
    September 30, 2007, $4.9 million as of
    September 30, 2006, $5.7 million as of
    September 30, 2005 and $6.3 million as of
    September 30, 2004. Uncollectible trade accounts receivable
    written-off, net of recoveries, were $2.9 million,
    $2.3 million and $2.2 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Provisions for bad debt expense were
    $1.9 million, $1.5 million and $1.6 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Transfers
    of Financial Assets

We offer our customers the option to purchase software and
    services through payment plans. Other assets in the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheets include non-current receivables from
    customers related to extended payment term contracts totaling
    $25.3 million and $31.1 million at September 30,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. We occasionally transfer future
    payments under certain of these contracts to third-party
    financial institutions on a non-recourse basis. We record such
    transfers as sales of the related accounts receivable when we
    surrender control of such receivables under the provisions of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140,

Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities.

Derivatives

We apply SFAS 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
    and Hedging Activities,

which established accounting and
    reporting standards for derivative instruments, including
    certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and
    for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designated in a
    hedging relationship or not, are required to be recorded on the
    balance sheet at fair value. SFAS 133 also requires that
    changes in the derivative’s fair value be recognized
    currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
    are met, and that we formally document, designate, and assess
    the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting.
    The effectiveness of the derivative as a hedging instrument is
    based on changes in its market value being highly correlated
    with changes in the market value of the underlying hedged item.

Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived
    from one or more underlying financial instruments, such as
    foreign currency. We enter into derivative transactions,
    specifically foreign currency forward contracts, to manage our
    exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates that arise
    primarily from our foreign currency-denominated receivables and
    payables. The contracts are primarily in Western European
    currencies and Japanese Yen, typically have maturities of less
    than three months and require an exchange of foreign currencies
    for U.S. dollars at maturity of the contracts at rates
    agreed to at inception of the contracts. We do not enter into or
    hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Generally,
    we do not designate foreign currency forward contracts as hedges
    for accounting purposes, and changes in the fair value of these
    instruments are recognized immediately in earnings. Because we
    enter into forward contracts only as an economic hedge, any gain
    or loss on the underlying foreign-denominated balance would be
    offset by the loss or gain on the forward contract. Gains and
    losses on forward contracts and foreign denominated receivables
    and payables are included in other income (expense), net. Net
    realized and unrealized gains and losses associated with
    exchange rate fluctuations on forward contracts and the
    underlying foreign currency exposure being hedged were
    immaterial for all periods presented.

As of September 30, 2007 and 2006, we had outstanding
    forward contracts with notional amounts equivalent to
    $91.0 million ($40.5 million in Euros,
    $31.1 million in British Pounds, $7.1 million in
    Japanese Yen, $1.6 million in Korean Won and

F-8


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

$10.7 million in other currencies) and $94.8 million
    ($32.6 million in Euros, $27.8 million in British
    Pounds, $20.7 million in Japanese Yen, $5.4 million in
    Korean Won and $8.3 million in other currencies),
    respectively.

Property
    and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated
    using the straight-line method over their estimated useful
    lives. Computer hardware and software are typically amortized
    over three to five years, and furniture and fixtures over three
    to eight years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the
    shorter of their useful lives or the remaining terms of the
    related leases. Property and equipment under capital leases are
    amortized over the lesser of the lease terms or their estimated
    useful lives. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense
    when incurred; additions and improvements are capitalized. When
    an item is sold or retired, the cost and related accumulated
    depreciation is relieved, and the resulting gain or loss, if
    any, is recognized in income.

Computer
    Software Costs

We incur costs to develop computer software to be licensed or
    otherwise marketed to customers. Research and development costs
    are expensed as incurred, except for costs of internally
    developed or externally purchased software that qualify for
    capitalization. Software development costs incurred subsequent
    to the establishment of technological feasibility, but prior to
    the general release of the product, are capitalized and, upon
    general release, are amortized using the straight-line method
    over the expected life of the related products. The
    straight-line method approximates the same amount of expense as
    that calculated using the ratio that current period gross
    product revenues bear to total anticipated gross product
    revenues. No computer software costs were capitalized in 2007 or
    2006. Computer software costs capitalized in 2005 totaled
    $1.2 million. In addition, as described in Note E,
    $13.1 million, $10.7 million and $13.7 million of
    software was capitalized in connection with our acquisitions of
    businesses in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Goodwill,
    Acquired Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets

Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquired net assets
    in a business acquisition exceeded the fair values of net
    identifiable assets on the date of our purchase.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, including
    goodwill, are evaluated for impairment annually, or more
    frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the asset might be impaired. Factors we consider important, on
    an overall company basis and reportable-segment basis, when
    applicable, that could trigger an impairment review include
    significant underperformance relative to historical or projected
    future operating results, significant changes in our use of the
    acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business,
    significant negative industry or economic trends, a significant
    decline in our stock price for a sustained period and a
    reduction of our market capitalization relative to net book
    value. To conduct these tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets, the fair value of the reporting unit is
    compared to its carrying value. If the reporting unit’s
    carrying value exceeds its fair value, we record an impairment
    loss to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds
    its implied fair value. We estimate the fair values of our
    reporting units using discounted cash flow valuation models.

Long-lived assets primarily include property and equipment and
    intangible assets with finite lives (purchased software,
    capitalized software, customer lists and certain trademarks).
    Purchased software is amortized over 1 to 7 years, capitalized
    software is amortized over 3 years, customer lists are amortized
    over 2 to 10 years and trademarks are amortized over 1 to 5
    years. In accordance with SFAS 144,

Accounting for the
    Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,

we periodically
    review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or
    changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the
    useful lives of those assets are no longer appropriate. Each
    impairment test is based on a comparison of the undiscounted
    cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. If impairment is
    indicated, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value
    based on a discounted cash flow analysis.

Advertising
    Expenses

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Total advertising
    expenses incurred were $2.7 million, $2.3 million and
    $2.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

F-9


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Income
    Taxes

Our income tax expense includes U.S. and international
    income taxes. Certain items of income and expense are not
    reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same
    year. The tax effects of these differences are reported as
    deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are
    recognized for the estimated future tax effects of deductible
    temporary differences and tax operating loss and credit
    carryforwards. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities
    are recorded in the provision for income taxes. We assess the
    likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from
    future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that it is
    more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax
    assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance.
    To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase
    this allowance in a period, we include an expense within the tax
    provision in the statement of operations.

Comprehensive
    Income

Comprehensive income consists of net income and other
    comprehensive income (loss), which includes foreign currency
    translation adjustments, minimum pension liability adjustments,
    and changes in unrealized gains and losses on investment
    securities. For the purposes of comprehensive income
    disclosures, we do not record tax provisions or benefits for the
    net changes in the foreign currency translation adjustment, as
    we intend to permanently reinvest undistributed earnings of our
    foreign subsidiaries. Accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) is reported as a component of stockholders’ equity
    and as of September 30, 2007 and 2006 was comprised of
    cumulative translation adjustment gains of $9.3 million and
    $3.3 million, respectively, minimum pension liability of
    $(42.8) million and $(46.6) million, respectively, and
    net unrealized gains (losses) on investment securities of $0 and
    $0.7 million, respectively.

Earnings
    Per Share (EPS)

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the
    weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
    Unvested restricted shares, although legally issued and
    outstanding, are not considered outstanding for purposes of
    calculating basic earnings per share. Diluted EPS is calculated
    by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of
    shares outstanding plus the dilutive effect, if any, of
    outstanding stock options, restricted shares and restricted
    stock units using the treasury stock method. The following table
    presents the calculation for both basic and diluted EPS:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands, except per share)

Net income

$

143,656

$

56,804

$

73,187

Weighted average shares outstanding

112,734

109,849

108,536

Dilutive effect of employee stock options, restricted shares and
    restricted stock units

4,760

3,533

3,445

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

117,494

113,382

111,981

Basic earnings per share

$

1.27

$

0.52

$

0.67

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.22

$

0.50

$

0.65

Stock options to purchase 3.5 million, 4.3 million and
    14.8 million shares for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
    had exercise prices per share that were greater than the average
    market price of our common stock for those periods. These shares
    were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS as the effect
    would have been anti-dilutive. Beginning in the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2005 upon our adoption of SFAS 123(R), the
    treasury stock method included consideration of unrecognized
    compensation expense and any tax benefits as additional proceeds.

Stock-Based
    Compensation

We account for stock-based compensation under Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

(SFAS 123(R)). SFAS 123(R)
    requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in
    exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
    grant-date fair value of the award using an option pricing
    model. That cost is recognized over the period during which an
    employee is required to provide service in exchange for the
    award.

F-10


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

We adopted SFAS 123(R) on July 3, 2005, effective with
    the beginning of our fourth quarter of 2005. We elected to adopt
    the modified prospective application method as provided by
    SFAS 123(R) and, accordingly, financial statement amounts
    for the periods prior to adoption presented in this

Form 10-K

were not restated to reflect the fair value method of expensing
    prescribed by SFAS 123(R).

Prior to July 3, 2005, we accounted for stock-based
    compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

, (APB
    No. 25) and related interpretations. Under APB
    No. 25, no compensation cost is recognized when the option
    price is equal to the market price of the underlying stock on
    the date of grant. As permitted by APB No. 25, prior to
    July 3, 2005, we generally did not recognize compensation
    expense in connection with stock option grants to employees,
    directors and officers under our plans. However, we did
    recognize compensation expense of $0.3 million in 2005 in
    connection with a restricted stock grant to an executive officer
    of the company in May 2002.

The fair value of restricted shares and restricted stock units
    granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was based on the fair market
    value of our stock on the date of grant. The weighted average
    fair value of restricted shares and restricted stock units
    granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $18.55, $15.45 and $15.88,
    respectively. Pre-vesting forfeiture rates for purposes of
    determining stock-based compensation for 2007, 2006 and 2005
    were estimated by us to be 0% for all periods for directors and
    executive officers, 4%, 6% and 3%, respectively, for vice
    president-level employees and 7%, 6% and 6%, respectively, for
    all other employees.

The following table shows total stock-based compensation expense
    recorded from our stock-based awards and our 2005 stock option
    exchange (see Note K for a description of the types of
    stock-based awards and the stock option exchange) as reflected
    in our consolidated statements of operations:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Note B

(in thousands)

Cost of license revenue

$


$


$


Cost of service revenue

7,412

7,539

2,644

Sales and marketing

8,984

9,526

5,113

Research and development

7,205

8,636

3,723

General and administrative

12,706

12,384

3,925

Total stock-based compensation expense

$

36,445

$

38,207

$

15,466

The tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statement of
    operations related to stock-based compensation totaled
    $31.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.2 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 tax benefit related
    to stock-based compensation includes $17.8 million related
    to prior years recognized upon release of the valuation
    allowance in 2007 for the U.S. and certain foreign
    jurisdictions as described in Note G.

As of September 30, 2007 and 2006, total unrecognized
    compensation cost related to unvested awards expected to vest,
    including stock options, restricted shares and restricted stock
    units, was approximately $37.3 million and
    $41.5 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2007
    and 2006, the weighted average remaining recognition period for
    unvested awards was 17 months and 10 months,
    respectively.

F-11


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
    earnings per share as if we had applied the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to all stock-based
    awards to employees.


Restated

Note B

Net income

$

73,187

Stock-based compensation cost included in reported net income,
    net of tax of $367

15,099

Stock-based compensation expense determined under fair value
    based method, net of tax of $367

(34,762

)

Pro forma net income

$

53,524

Earnings per share:

Basic—as reported

$

0.67

Diluted—as reported

$

0.65

Basic—pro forma

$

0.49

Diluted—pro forma

$

0.48

The illustrative disclosures above include the amortization of
    the fair value of options over their vesting schedules. The pro
    forma net income for 2005 includes an income tax valuation
    allowance fully offsetting any income tax benefit related to the
    pro forma stock-based employee compensation expense for those
    periods, except for a $0.4 million tax benefit in 2005
    related to certain profitable foreign jurisdictions.

No stock options were granted during 2007, 2006 or 2005, and no
    shares were issued under the employee stock purchase plan in
    2007 or 2006. The fair value of employee stock purchase plan
    shares granted in 2005 was estimated at the date of grant using
    the Black-Scholes option-pricing model assuming the following
    weighted-average assumptions:


Expected life for employee stock purchase plan shares (months)

6.0

Risk-free interest rates for employee stock purchase plan shares

1.6

%

Volatility


%

Dividend yield

—

The weighted average fair value of shares issued under the
    employee stock purchase plan was $3.80 in 2005.

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for use in
    estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting
    restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option
    valuation models require the input of highly subjective
    assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. Our
    options have characteristics significantly different from those
    of traded options and changes in the subjective input
    assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    issued Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty
    in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109

(FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the
    accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
    enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with
    SFAS 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes.

FIN 48
    prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
    FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
    classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
    periods and disclosure relative to uncertain tax positions.
    FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006, with early adoption encouraged. We will
    adopt FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. We are
    currently evaluating whether or not the adoption of FIN 48
    will have a material effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows.

Fair
    Value Measurements

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

(SFAS 157). This Statement
    defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
    value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement
    applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or
    permit fair value measurements, the FASB having previously
    concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is
    the relevant

F-12


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

measurement attribute. Accordingly, this Statement does not
    require any new fair value measurements. This Statement is
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. We do not believe the adoption of
    SFAS 157 in fiscal 2009 will have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities

In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 159,

The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
    Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115

(SFAS 159). This Statement permits entities to choose
    to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at
    fair value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by
    providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility
    in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and
    liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge
    accounting provisions. This Statement is expected to expand the
    use of fair value measurement, which is consistent with the
    FASB’s long-term measurement objectives for accounting for
    financial instruments. The fair value option established by this
    Statement permits all entities to choose to measure eligible
    items at fair value at specified election dates. A business
    entity must report unrealized gains and losses on items for
    which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each
    subsequent reporting date. This Statement is effective for
    financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years,
    with early adoption permitted. We do not believe the adoption of
    SFAS 159 will have a material effect on our consolidated
    financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

B.

Restatement
    of Consolidated Financial Statements

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for fiscal 2007, we are restating our consolidated balance sheet
    as of September 30, 2006 and our related Consolidated
    Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows and
    Stockholders’ Equity for years ended September 30,
    2006 and 2005 as well as all related footnotes.

As a result of an independent investigation led by the Audit
    Committee of our Board of Directors, the Audit Committee
    concluded on October 29, 2007 that we would need to restate
    our previously issued financial statements for the effect of
    certain transactions involving Toshiba Corporation of Japan
    (“Toshiba”), for which we recorded revenue of
    approximately $41 million during fiscal 2001 through 2006.
    Based on its investigation, the Audit Committee concluded that
    the understanding of the arrangement was not fully reflected in
    the order paperwork for these transactions because there were
    additional circumstances known or knowable by one or more of our
    personnel in Japan. That condition required us to change our
    conclusion that the transactions met the revenue recognition
    criteria of Statement of Position

97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition

.

The results of the investigation indicate that during the period
    2001 to 2006, an employee of Toshiba Corporation initiated
    purchases of both software and services from our subsidiary in
    Japan, PTC Japan K.K. (“PTC Japan”). Many of these
    purchases were completed through a third party trading company
    that procured the software and services on Toshiba’s
    behalf. The transactions were supported by orders that were
    signed by employees of Toshiba and the third party trading
    company. PTC Japan delivered the items for which revenue was
    recorded and was paid for the orders in question. The Toshiba
    employee also allegedly entered into a series of financing
    agreements with third party leasing companies, including GE
    Capital Leasing Corporation of Japan (“GECL”), in the
    name of Toshiba to fund various purchases. As part of those
    transactions, the leasing companies allegedly entered into
    transactions with various third party trading companies to
    procure the purchased items on behalf of Toshiba. We were not a
    party to those financing agreements. Toshiba has disclaimed
    responsibility for repayment of these financed amounts and has
    alleged that the Toshiba employee who entered into the financing
    agreements was not authorized to do so and that Toshiba did not
    receive delivery of the items so financed.

Recently, the Toshiba employee involved in the transactions was
    arrested and charged with defrauding certain of the leasing
    companies. Among the allegations against him are that he forged
    contracts in the name of Toshiba. In addition, three
    individuals—each employed by a different trading company
    involved in the transactions—have been arrested for alleged
    involvement in a scheme to defraud the leasing companies.
    According to published news reports, the Toshiba employee and
    these other individuals are suspected of diverting some of the
    proceeds of the financings to a bank account controlled by one
    or more of them. Following these arrests, it was reported on
    October 23, 2007 that two former employees of PTC Japan
    were arrested on suspicion of demanding “hush money”
    from one of the participants in the fraudulent scheme. The press
    accounts indicate that the former PTC Japan employees—who
    left employment with PTC Japan in 2003 and 2004,
    respectively—were no longer working at PTC Japan at the
    time of the alleged demands. According to the press accounts,
    these individuals have not been charged with participating in
    the alleged underlying fraud.

To effect the restatement of revenue associated with the
    transactions placed by the Toshiba employee (the “Revenue
    Adjustment”), we reduced previously recorded revenue by
    $7.7 million in fiscal 2006, $15.5 million in fiscal
    2005, $8.5 million

F-13


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

in fiscal 2004, $2.1 million in fiscal 2003 and
    $7.1 million in prior years, and recorded related income
    tax effects. We did not make any adjustments to the costs
    incurred in connection with these transactions due to the
    uncertainty regarding our ultimate ability to retain the
    advances received for these transactions and our belief that all
    such costs are unrecoverable. Upon restatement, the revenue
    reversed from those prior periods was deferred and classified as
    Customer Advances in our consolidated balance sheets. That
    liability (which totaled $40.3 million and
    $39.5 million at September 30, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, after the effects of foreign currency movements)
    will remain recorded until the rights and obligations of the
    several companies connected with the Toshiba transactions are
    resolved. To the extent that matters are resolved in our favor,
    we will reduce Customer Advances and record revenue or other
    income at that time.

Our restatement of prior period financial statements also
    includes adjustments for other previously identified errors that
    we had corrected in the periods they became known to us rather
    than in the periods in which they originated because we believed
    that the amounts of such errors, individually and in the
    aggregate, were not material to our financial statements for the
    affected periods. In this restatement, we have now recorded
    those corrections in the periods in which each error originated.
    Such adjustments (the “Other Adjustments”), which have
    been tax effected, primarily relate to (i) recording
    stock-based compensation expense due to the timing of approvals
    for certain stock options we granted, (ii) deferring or
    reversing revenue for certain customer orders in the
    Asia-Pacific region, and (iii) reversing an income tax
    reserve that was unwarranted when established. We also revised
    our disclosure of certain prior year deferred tax asset balances
    to present them on a gross basis rather than on a basis which is
    net of their related valuation allowances.

F-14


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following tables present the effect of the restatement
    adjustments by financial statement line item for our
    Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2006 and our
    Consolidated Statements of Operations, Cash Flows, and
    Comprehensive Income for the years ended September 30, 2006
    and 2005.

September 30, 2006

Revenue

Other

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments(a)

Restated

(in thousands)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

183,448

$

—

$

—

$

183,448

Accounts receivable

181,008

—

—

181,008

Prepaid expenses

20,495

—

—

20,495

Other current assets

51,824

—

—

51,824

Deferred tax assets

1,341

—

—

1,341

Total current assets

438,116

—

—

438,116

Property and equipment, net

51,603

—

—

51,603

Goodwill

249,252

—

—

249,252

Acquired intangible assets, net

77,870

—

—

77,870

Deferred tax assets

3,205

5,943

—

9,148

Other assets

75,398

—

—

75,398

Total assets

$

895,444

$

5,943

$

—

$

901,387

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

17,109

$

—

$

—

$

17,109

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities

52,128

—

—

52,128

Accrued compensation and benefits

72,632

—

—

72,632

Accrued income taxes

7,066

—

(1,305

)

5,761

Customer advances

—

39,475

—

39,475

Deferred revenue

197,769

—

—

197,769

Total current liabilities

346,704

39,475

(1,305

)

384,874

Other liabilities

97,413

—

—

97,413

Deferred revenue

13,228

—

—

13,228

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock

1,119

—

—

1,119

Additional paid-in capital

1,723,570

—

—

1,723,570

Accumulated deficit

(1,242,692

)

(34,834

)

1,305

(1,276,221

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(43,898

)

1,302

—

(42,596

)

Total stockholders’ equity

438,099

(33,532

)

1,305

405,872

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

895,444

$

5,943

$

—

$

901,387

(a)

Consists of the effect of the correction we made in 2007 to
    reverse an income tax reserve that was unwarranted when
    established in 2004.

F-15


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year ended September 30, 2006

Revenue

Other

Consolidated Statement of Operations

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments(b)

Restated

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue:

License

$

263,460

$

(442

)

$


$

263,471

Service

591,458

(7,243

)


584,512

Total revenue

854,918

(7,685

)


847,983

Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue

12,218

—

—

12,218

Cost of service revenue

257,415

—


257,522

Sales and marketing

274,287

—

(1,269

)

273,018

Research and development

147,338

—

(381

)

146,957

General and administrative

77,813

—

(179

)

77,634

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

6,074

—

—

6,074

In-process research and development

2,100

—

—

2,100

Restructuring and other charges

5,947

—

—

5,947

Total costs and expenses

783,192

—

(1,722

)

781,470

Operating income (loss)

71,726

(7,685

)

2,472

66,513

Other income (expense), net

3,699

—

—

3,699

Income (loss) before income taxes

75,425

(7,685

)

2,472

70,212

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

14,559

(1,151

)

—

13,408

Net income (loss)

$

60,866

$

(6,534

)

$

2,472

$

56,804

Earnings per share—Basic

$

0.55

$

0.52

Earnings per share—Diluted

$

0.54

$

0.50

(b)

Consists of (i) the reversal of the correction we made in
    2006 of $2.3 million to recognize stock-based compensation
    due to the timing of approvals for certain stock options that we
    granted in 2002 and prior years and (ii) the reversal of
    the corrections we made in 2006 of $0.8 million for revenue
    erroneously recorded from 2002 to 2004 in the Asia-Pacific
    region as well as the reversal of related legal reserves
    recorded in 2004, net of the related income tax effects of these
    three items, which was $0 because of our full valuation
    allowance against net deferred tax assets.

F-16


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year ended September 30, 2005

Revenue

Other

Consolidated Statement of Operations

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments(c)

Restated

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue:

License

$

209,717

$

(4,962

)

$

2,467

$

207,222

Service

511,002

(10,572

)


500,753

Total revenue

720,719

(15,534

)

2,790

707,975

Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue

8,444

—

—

8,444

Cost of service revenue

199,798

—

—

199,798

Sales and marketing

243,758

—

—

243,758

Research and development

118,267

—

—

118,267

General and administrative

63,605

—

—

63,605

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

1,638

—

—

1,638

In-process research and development


—

—


Restructuring and other charges

(1,307

)

—

—

(1,307

)

Total costs and expenses

634,933

—

—

634,933

Operating income (loss)

85,786

(15,534

)

2,790

73,042

Other income (expense), net

5,526

—

—

5,526

Income (loss) before income taxes

91,312

(15,534

)

2,790

78,568

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

7,720

(2,339

)

—

5,381

Net income (loss)

$

83,592

$

(13,195

)

$

2,790

$

73,187

Earnings per share—Basic

$

0.77

$

0.67

Earnings per share—Diluted

$

0.75

$

0.65

(c)

Consists of the reversal of the corrections we made in 2005 of
    $2.8 million for revenue erroneously recorded from 2001 to
    2004 in the Asia-Pacific region, net of their related income tax
    effects, which was $0 because of our full valuation allowance
    against net deferred tax assets.

F-17


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year ended September 30, 2006

Revenue

Other

Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments

Restated

(in thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

60,866

$

(6,534

)

$

2,472

$

56,804

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
    by operating activities:

Stock-based compensation

40,487

—

(2,280

)

38,207

Depreciation and amortization

33,887

—

—

33,887

Provision for loss on accounts receivable

1,525

—

—

1,525

Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes

(402

)

(1,151

)

—

(1,553

)

In-process research and development

2,100

—

—

2,100

Other non-cash costs (credits), net

(64

)

—

—

(64

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

(15,657

)

—

—

(15,657

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(10,450

)

—


(9,892

)

Customer advances

—

7,685

—

7,685

Accrued compensation and benefits

2,547

—

—

2,547

Deferred revenue

4,405

—

(750

)

3,655

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

(21,811

)

—

—

(21,811

)

Other current assets and prepaid expense

3,215

—

—

3,215

Other noncurrent assets

(38,164

)

—

—

(38,164

)

Other noncurrent liabilities

2,797

—

—

2,797

Net cash provided by operating activities

65,281

—

—

65,281

Net cash used by investing activities

(94,556

)

—

—

(94,556

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

6,427

—

—

6,427

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

1,873

—

—

1,873

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(20,975

)

—

—

(20,975

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

204,423

—

—

204,423

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

183,448

$

—

$

—

$

183,448

F-18


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year ended September 30, 2005

Revenue

Other

Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments

Restated

(in thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

83,592

$

(13,195

)

$

2,790

$

73,187

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
    by operating activities:

Stock-based compensation

15,466

—

—

15,466

Depreciation and amortization

25,881

—

—

25,881

Provision for loss on accounts receivable

1,624

—

—

1,624

Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes

(5,989

)

(2,339

)

—

(8,328

)

In-process research and development


—

—


Other non-cash costs (credits), net

(266

)

—

—

(266

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

(10,313

)

—

—

(10,313

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(13,355

)

—

—

(13,355

)

Customer advances

—

15,534

—

15,534

Accrued compensation and benefits

7,349

—

—

7,349

Deferred revenue

9,501

—

(2,790

)

6,711

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

29,809

—

—

29,809

Other current assets and prepaid expense

2,616

—

—

2,616

Other noncurrent assets

(15,909

)

—

—

(15,909

)

Other noncurrent liabilities

(568

)

—

—

(568

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

130,168

—

—

130,168

Net cash used by investing activities

(215,032

)

—

—

(215,032

)

Net cash used by financing activities

(4,047

)

—

—

(4,047

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(1,553

)

—

—

(1,553

)

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(90,464

)

—

—

(90,464

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

294,887

—

—

294,887

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

204,423

$

—

$

—

$

204,423

Year ended September 30, 2006

Revenue

Other

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments

Restated

(in thousands)

Comprehensive income (loss):

Net income (loss)

$

60,866

$

(6,534

)

$

2,472

$

56,804

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:

Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $0


1,054

—

1,742

Change in unrealized gain on investment securities, net of tax
    of $0

(443

)

—

—

(443

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $0

4,891

—

—

4,891

Other comprehensive income

5,136

1,054

—

6,190

Comprehensive income (loss)

$

66,002

$

(5,480

)

$

2,472

$

62,994

Year ended September 30, 2005

Revenue

Other

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

As Reported

Adjustment

Adjustments

Restated

(in thousands)

Comprehensive income (loss):

Net income (loss)

$

83,592

$

(13,195

)

$

2,790

$

73,187

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:

Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $0

(2,395

)


—

(1,464

)

Change in unrealized gain on investment securities, net of tax
    of $0

1,030

—

—

1,030

Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $0

(11,654

)

—

—

(11,654

)

Other comprehensive income

(13,019

)


—

(12,088

)

Comprehensive income (loss)

$

70,573

$

(12,264

)

$

2,790

$

61,099

F-19


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

C.

Restructuring
    and Other Charges (Credits)

In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a restructuring
    charge of $15.3 million. The restructuring charge included
    a $13.2 million charge for severance and related costs
    associated with 262 employees notified of termination
    during the quarter and $2.1 million related to excess
    facilities. The charges for excess facilities were primarily
    related to gross lease commitments in excess of estimated
    sublease income for excess facilities. As part of our continuing
    efforts to increase profitability, we are relocating additional
    business functions to locations, including China, where
    operating costs are lower and where we are also seeking to
    establish a presence. As part of this initiative, we expect to
    incur additional restructuring costs of $10 million in 2008.

In the third quarter of 2006, we recorded a net restructuring
    charge of $5.9 million. The net restructuring charge
    included a $7.4 million charge for severance and related
    costs associated with the termination of 91 employees in
    the third quarter of 2006, partially offset by a credit of
    $1.5 million primarily related to a plan to reoccupy a
    portion of our headquarters facility that was previously vacated
    and included in restructuring costs in prior periods. The
    headquarters space was available for sublease and was being
    marketed, but was reoccupied due to space requirements related
    to our acquisition of Mathsoft. As of September 30, 2006,
    substantially all of our remaining headquarters excess space had
    been sublet.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a net credit to
    restructuring and other charges of $1.3 million. The
    restructuring credit included a $3.0 million credit for
    changes in our estimated liabilities for facilities that we
    vacated, offset by $1.7 million of severance and
    termination costs related to nine employees terminated during
    the period. The $3.0 million credit was due primarily to
    reoccupying, in the fourth quarter of 2005, a portion of our
    headquarters facility that was previously vacated and included
    in restructuring costs in a prior period. The space was
    available for sublease and was being marketed, but was
    reoccupied due to space requirements related to our three
    acquisitions completed in 2005 and general business growth.

The following table summarizes restructuring and other charges
    reserve activity for the three years ended September 30,
    2007:

Employee Severance

Facility Closures

and Related Benefits

and Other Costs

Total

(in thousands)

Balance, October 1, 2004

$


$

42,933

$

43,321

Charges (credits) to operations

1,684

(2,991

)

(1,307

)

Cash disbursements

(809

)

(9,949

)

(10,758

)

Foreign currency impact

—



Balance, September 30, 2005

1,263

30,259

31,522

Charges (credits) to operations

7,449

(1,502

)

5,947

Cash disbursements

(7,628

)

(7,611

)

(15,239

)

Foreign currency impact

—



Balance, September 30, 2006

1,084

21,293

22,377

Charges to operations

13,204

2,143

15,347

Cash disbursements

(8,519

)

(6,197

)

(14,716

)

Foreign currency impact




Balance, September 30, 2007

$

5,905

$

17,401

$

23,306

The accrual for facility closures and related costs is included
    in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and other
    long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet, and the
    accrual for employee severance and related benefits is included
    in accrued compensation and benefits. As of September 30,
    2007, of the $23.3 million remaining in accrued
    restructuring charges, $13.7 million was included in
    current liabilities and $9.6 million was included in other
    long-term liabilities, principally for facility costs to be paid
    out through 2014.

In determining the amount of the facilities accrual, we are
    required to estimate such factors as future vacancy rates, the
    time required to sublet properties and sublease rates. These
    estimates are reviewed quarterly based on known real estate
    market conditions and the credit-worthiness of subtenants, and
    may result in revisions to established facility reserves. We had
    accrued $16.9 million as of September 30, 2007 related
    to excess facilities (compared to $20.7 million at
    September 30, 2006), representing gross lease commitments
    with agreements expiring at various dates through 2014 of
    approximately $37.3 million, net of committed and estimated
    sublease income of approximately $20.1 million and a
    present value factor of $0.3 million. We

F-20


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

have entered into signed sublease arrangements for approximately
    $17.9 million, with the remaining $2.2 million based
    on future estimated sublease arrangements.

D.

Property
    and Equipment

Property and equipment consisted of the following:

September 30,



(in thousands)

Computer hardware and software

$

187,956

$

167,021

Furniture and fixtures

17,881

17,440

Leasehold improvements

32,456

31,372

Gross property and equipment

238,293

215,833

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(183,548

)

(164,230

)

Net property and equipment

$

54,745

$

51,603

Depreciation expense was $24.3 million, $21.9 million,
    and $21.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In
    2005, we entered into several capital leases totaling
    $1.5 million, the obligations of which are reflected in
    current and noncurrent liabilities on our September 30,
    2007 and 2006 consolidated balance sheets.

E.

Acquisitions

NetRegulus

In the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired substantially all of
    the assets of NetRegulus, Inc. (NetRegulus) headquartered in
    Centennial, Colorado, for approximately $2.3 million in
    cash. NetRegulus provided enterprise quality management
    solutions for the medical device industry. Results of operations
    for NetRegulus have been included in PTC’s consolidated
    statement of operations since September 11, 2007. Our
    results of operations prior to this acquisition, if presented on
    a pro forma basis as if the companies had been combined since
    the beginning of fiscal 2005, would not differ materially from
    our reported results.

This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
    The purchase price allocation recorded in the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2007
    resulted in purchased software of $2.5 million, which is
    being amortized over an estimated useful life of three years and
    other net liabilities of $0.2 million.

NC
    Graphics

In the third quarter of 2007, we acquired NC Graphics
    (Cambridge) Limited, headquartered in England, for
    $7.2 million in cash, including $0.2 million of
    acquisition-related transaction costs. NC Graphics provided
    computer-aided manufacturing solutions for design and machining
    of molds, dies, prototypes, and other high-speed precision
    machining applications. Results of operations for NC Graphics
    have been included in the accompanying consolidated statements
    of operations since May 3, 2007. Our results of operations
    prior to this acquisition if presented on a pro forma basis, as
    if the companies had been combined since the beginning of fiscal
    2005, would not differ materially from our reported results.

This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
    The purchase price allocation resulted in goodwill of
    $0.5 million; intangible assets of $5.8 million
    (including purchased software of $4.4 million, customer
    relationships of $1.3 million, and other intangible assets
    of $0.1 million, which are being amortized over useful
    lives ranging from 1 to 10 years); other net assets of
    $0.8 million; and deferred tax liabilities of
    $0.4 million. In addition, the purchase price allocation
    resulted in a charge of $0.5 million for in-process
    research and development related to a project under development
    for which technological feasibility had not yet been established
    at the acquisition date and for which there was no alternative
    future use. The value of the purchased in-process research and
    development was determined using the residual income approach,
    which discounts expected future cash flows from projects under
    development to their net present value. The estimated cost to
    complete the project was approximately $0.8 million at the
    acquisition date, and the project is expected to be completed in
    the second half of fiscal 2008.

F-21


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

ITEDO

In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired ITEDO Software GmbH
    and ITEDO Software LLC (together, ITEDO), headquartered in
    Germany, for $16.7 million in cash, including
    $0.2 million of acquisition-related costs. In addition, we
    agreed to pay up to $0.5 million of additional cash
    consideration if specified product integration targets are
    achieved within three years of the acquisition date. During
    2007, the specified targets were met and the related
    $0.5 million was paid and recorded as additional goodwill.
    ITEDO provided software solutions for creating and maintaining
    technical illustrations to customers in multiple discrete
    manufacturing vertical markets such as automotive, aerospace and
    defense, and industrial equipment. ITEDO had approximately
    30 employees and generated revenue of approximately
    $5 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006.
    Results of operations for ITEDO have been included in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of operations since
    October 19, 2006. Our results of operations prior to this
    acquisition if presented on a pro forma basis, as if the
    companies had been combined since the beginning of fiscal 2005,
    would not differ materially from our reported results.

This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
    The purchase price allocation resulted in goodwill of
    $11.7 million; intangible assets of $8.1 million
    (including purchased software of $6.2 million, customer
    relationships of $1.8 million, and other intangible assets
    of $0.1 million, which are being amortized over useful
    lives ranging from 4 to 10 years); other net liabilities of
    $1.0 million; restructuring accruals of $0.3 million
    related to our planned integration of ITEDO; deferred tax
    liabilities of $2.1 million, equal to the tax effect of the
    amount of the acquired intangible assets other than goodwill
    that are not deductible for income tax purposes; and, as a
    result of recording those deferred tax liabilities, a
    $0.8 million reduction in our valuation allowance recorded
    against our pre-acquisition deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction. The goodwill and certain
    intangible assets are not deductible for tax purposes.

This transaction resulted in $11.7 million of purchase
    price that exceeded the estimated fair values of tangible and
    intangible assets and liabilities, all of which was allocated to
    goodwill. We believe that the high amount of goodwill relative
    to identifiable intangible assets was the result of several
    factors including the potential to sell ITEDO products into our
    traditional manufacturing customer base, including leveraging
    our direct and indirect sales force and our established presence
    in geographies not previously served by ITEDO; and our intention
    to integrate our ITEDO, Arbortext, Windchill and Pro/ENGINEER
    solutions to enhance our technical publications capabilities.

Acquisition
    of Remaining Equity Interest in Controlled Subsidiary

In 2007, we paid $4.0 million to acquire a 30% interest in
    a controlled foreign subsidiary from our joint venture partner.
    Upon that acquisition, we owned the subsidiary in full.

Mathsoft

On April 28, 2006, we acquired Mathsoft Corporate Holdings,
    Inc., including its wholly owned subsidiary Mathsoft
    Engineering & Education, Inc. (together, Mathsoft).
    Mathsoft’s primary product was
    Mathcad

®

software, which helps engineering organizations create,
    automate, document and reuse engineering calculations in the
    product development process, and in other mathematics-driven
    processes. The aggregate purchase price was approximately
    $64.4 million in cash, including $1.3 million of
    acquisition-related transaction costs. No PTC common stock or
    stock options were issued in the acquisition.
    Acquisition-related transaction costs included investment
    banking, legal and accounting fees and other external costs
    directly related to the acquisition. Results of operations for
    Mathsoft have been included in the accompanying consolidated
    statement of operations since April 29, 2006. Our results
    of operations prior to this acquisition, if presented on a pro
    forma basis as if the companies had been combined since the
    beginning of fiscal 2005, would not differ materially from our
    reported results.

This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
    Assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their
    fair values as of April 28, 2006. The fair values of
    intangible assets were based on valuations using an income
    approach, with estimates and assumptions provided by management
    of Mathsoft and PTC. The excess of the purchase price over the
    fair values

F-22


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

of tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets and assumed
    liabilities was recorded as goodwill. Based upon the valuations,
    the total purchase price was allocated as follows:

(in millions)

Goodwill

$

42.0

Identifiable intangible assets

25.6

Accounts receivable

3.4

All other assets, including property and equipment

1.3

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(3.2

)

Deferred revenue, net of fair value adjustment

(4.1

)

Restructuring accruals

(2.7

)

Deferred tax liabilities

(10.0

)

Reduction in valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of PTC

10.0

In-process research and development

2.1

Total purchase price allocation

$

64.4

Identifiable intangible assets acquired consisted of developed
    technology, core technology, customer contracts, software
    support agreements and related relationships, distributor
    network relationships, and tradenames. Developed technology
    (products that have reached technological feasibility) included
    Mathsoft’s products, primarily Mathcad. Core technology
    represents a combination of Mathsoft’s processes,
    inventions and trade secrets related to the design and
    development of its products. Developed and core technologies
    totaled $10.3 million and are being amortized over
    5 years. Customer relationship intangibles represent the
    underlying relationships and agreements with Mathsoft’s
    customers. Customer relationship intangibles totaled
    $13.9 million and are being amortized over 7 to
    10 years (weighted average life of 9.7 years).
    Distributor network relationships represent the underlying
    relationships and agreements with distributors of
    Mathsoft’s products. Distributor network relationships
    totaled $0.8 million and are being amortized over
    5 years. Tradenames totaled $0.6 million and are being
    amortized over 5 years.

Deferred revenue recorded in the purchase price allocation
    reflects an amount equivalent to the estimated cost plus an
    appropriate profit margin to perform the services related to
    Mathsoft’s software support contracts.

Purchased in-process research and development of
    $2.1 million was written-off in the third quarter of 2006
    and relates to a project under development for which
    technological feasibility had not yet been established at the
    acquisition date and for which there was no alternative future
    use. The value of the purchased in-process research and
    development was determined using the residual income approach,
    which discounts expected future cash flows from projects under
    development to their net present value. A risk-adjusted discount
    rate of 23% was used to reflect the overall risk associated with
    this project. This development project was completed in 2007, as
    expected.

Restructuring accruals of $2.7 million recorded in the
    purchase price allocation relate to our planned integration of
    Mathsoft and consisted of $1.2 million of excess facility
    costs and $1.5 million of Mathsoft employee severance costs
    and other integration costs associated with exiting certain
    activities. The restructuring accrual for excess facilities to
    be vacated represents gross lease commitments under agreements
    expiring at various dates through 2012 of approximately
    $4.5 million, offset by committed sublease income of
    $1.9 million and estimated future sublease income of
    $1.4 million relating to facilities currently available for
    sublease. Through September 30, 2007, we had made cash
    disbursements of $1.9 million related to our integration of
    this business, and the remaining $0.8 million of
    restructuring accruals was included in liabilities in our
    consolidated balance sheet.

This transaction resulted in $42.0 million of purchase
    price that exceeded the estimated fair values of tangible and
    intangible assets and liabilities, all of which was allocated to
    goodwill. We believe that the high amount of goodwill relative
    to identifiable intangible assets was the result of several
    factors including: (1) the potential to sell Mathcad into
    our traditional manufacturing customer base; (2) our
    intention to leverage our larger direct and indirect sales force
    and our intellectual property to attract new contracts and
    revenue; (3) our intention to leverage our established
    presence in international regions and markets, specifically the
    Asia-Pacific region, in which Mathsoft did not have a
    significant presence; and (4) our intention to integrate
    our products to allow engineering calculations performed in
    Mathcad to be captured, cross-referenced, configuration
    controlled and reused within the engineering organization and to
    determine designs in Pro/ENGINEER.

None of the goodwill or intangible assets acquired in the
    acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. As a result,
    and in accordance with SFAS 109,

Income Taxes

, we
    recorded in the purchase accounting a deferred tax liability of
    $10.0 million, equal

F-23


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

to the tax effect of the amount of the acquired intangible
    assets other than goodwill. As a result of recording that
    deferred tax liability, we also reduced our valuation allowance
    recorded against our U.S. pre-acquisition net deferred tax
    assets by a corresponding amount. When we acquired Mathsoft in
    the third quarter of 2006, we recorded approximately
    $3.1 million of net deferred tax assets of Mathsoft, which
    consisted primarily of acquired net operating loss carryforwards
    and are not included in the table above. However, we recorded
    such assets with a full valuation allowance due to the
    significant uncertainty about whether those deferred tax assets
    will be realized. In 2007, we reversed this valuation allowance
    against these net deferred tax assets and reduced goodwill by
    $3.1 million.

Arbortext

On July 19, 2005, we completed the acquisition of all of
    the outstanding capital stock of Arbortext, Inc., a provider of
    enterprise publishing software. The aggregate purchase price for
    the acquisition was approximately $194.8 million in cash,
    including $3.1 million of acquisition-related transaction
    costs. Included in the aggregate purchase price was the
    consideration paid to cancel and terminate all Arbortext
    unvested and unexercised stock options. No PTC common stock or
    stock options were issued in the acquisition.
    Acquisition-related transaction costs included investment
    banking, legal and accounting fees and other external costs
    directly related to the acquisition. Results of operations for
    Arbortext have been included in the accompanying consolidated
    statement of operations since July 19, 2005.

The acquisition of Arbortext was accounted for as a business
    combination. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their fair values as of July 19, 2005. The fair
    values of intangible assets were based on valuations using an
    income approach, with estimates and assumptions provided by
    management of Arbortext and PTC. The excess of the purchase
    price over the fair values of tangible assets, identifiable
    intangible assets and assumed liabilities was recorded as
    goodwill. Based upon the valuations, the total purchase price
    was allocated as follows:

(in millions)

Goodwill

$

151.6

Identifiable intangible assets

46.6

Cash and cash equivalents

2.3

Accounts receivable

9.8

Property and equipment

1.3

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(6.9

)

Deferred revenue, net of fair value adjustment

(7.6

)

Restructuring accruals

(3.0

)

Deferred tax liabilities

(18.2

)

Reduction in valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of PTC

18.2

In-process research and development

0.7

Total purchase price allocation

$

194.8

Identifiable intangible assets acquired consisted of developed
    technology, core technology, tradenames, customer contracts,
    software support agreements and related relationships and
    consulting contracts. Developed technology (products that have
    reached technological feasibility) includes products in most of
    Arbortext’s product lines. Core technology represents a
    combination of Arbortext’s processes, inventions and trade
    secrets related to the design and development of its
    applications products. Developed and core technologies total
    $10.5 million and are being amortized over 3 to
    5 years (weighted average life of 4.7 years). Customer
    relationship intangibles represent the underlying relationships
    and agreements with Arbortext’s customers. Customer
    relationship intangibles total $35.3 million and are being
    amortized over 10 years. Tradenames totaled
    $0.8 million and are being amortized over 5 years.

Purchased in-process research and development of
    $0.7 million was written-off in the fourth quarter of 2005
    and related to two projects under development, for which
    technological feasibility had not yet been established at the
    acquisition date and for which there was no alternative future
    use. The value of the purchased in-process research and
    development was determined using the residual income approach,
    which discounts expected future cash flows from projects under
    development to their net present value. Risk-adjusted discount
    rates of 20% and 25% were used to reflect the overall risk
    associated with the projects. The expected cost to complete was
    approximately $2 million at the acquisition date. These
    development projects were completed in 2006, as expected.

F-24


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Net tangible assets consist of the fair values of tangible
    assets less the fair values of assumed liabilities and
    obligations. Except for deferred revenue and restructuring
    accruals, net tangible assets were valued at the respective
    carrying amounts recorded by Arbortext, as we believed that
    their carrying values approximated their fair values at the
    acquisition date. Deferred revenue reflects an amount equivalent
    to the estimated cost plus an appropriate profit margin to
    perform the services related to Arbortext’s software
    support contracts. Restructuring accruals of $3.0 million
    recorded in the purchase price allocation included the severance
    costs related to Arbortext employees, costs of planned closure
    of certain Arbortext facilities and other costs associated with
    exiting activities of Arbortext and were fully utilized for
    these purposes as of September 30, 2007.

This transaction resulted in $151.6 million of purchase
    price that exceeded the estimated fair values of tangible and
    intangible assets and liabilities, which was allocated to
    goodwill. We believe that the high amount of goodwill relative
    to identifiable intangible assets was the result of several
    factors including: (1) the potential to sell
    Arbortext’s XML-based authoring and publishing products
    into our traditional manufacturing customer base; (2) the
    potential to sell our product development system, primarily our
    collaboration and control products, into Arbortext’s
    traditional customer base, including customers in markets such
    as life sciences, financial services, government and publishing;
    (3) our intention to combine our products to provide
    software products that enable customers to create, manage and
    dynamically publish information concurrently with the
    development of their related products or services; (4) our
    intention to leverage our larger direct and indirect sales force
    and our intellectual property to attract new contracts and
    revenue; and (5) our intention to leverage our established
    presence in international regions and markets, specifically the
    Asia-Pacific region, in which Arbortext did not have a
    significant presence.

None of the goodwill or intangible assets acquired in the
    acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. As a result,
    and in accordance with SFAS 109,

Income Taxes

, we
    recorded in the purchase accounting a deferred tax liability of
    $18.2 million, equal to the tax effect of the amount of the
    acquired intangible assets other than goodwill. As a result of
    recording that deferred tax liability, we also reduced our
    valuation allowance recorded against our
    U.S. pre-acquisition net deferred tax assets by a
    corresponding amount. When we acquired Arbortext in the fourth
    quarter of 2005, we recorded approximately $17.7 million of
    net deferred tax assets of Arbortext, which consisted primarily
    of acquired net operating loss carryforwards and are not
    included in the table above. However, we recorded such assets
    with a full valuation allowance due to the significant
    uncertainty about whether those deferred tax assets will be
    realized. In 2007, we reversed this valuation allowance against
    these net deferred tax assets and reduced goodwill by
    $16.9 million.

Pro Forma
    Financial Information (unaudited)

The unaudited financial information in the table below
    summarizes the combined results of operations of PTC and
    Arbortext, on a pro forma basis, as though the companies had
    been combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2005. The pro forma
    financial information is presented for comparative purposes only
    and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations
    that actually would have been achieved if the acquisition had
    taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2005. The pro forma
    financial information includes the amortization charges from
    acquired intangible assets, adjustments to interest income and
    the related tax effects.

Year Ended

September 30,


Restated

Note B

Revenue (in millions)

$

741.8

Net income (in millions)

$

61.7

Earnings per share—Basic

$

0.57

Earnings per share—Diluted

$

0.55

DENC and
    Cadtrain

In the first quarter of 2006, we acquired DENC AG and
    substantially all of the assets of Cadtrain, Inc. for an
    aggregate of $9.9 million in cash. In addition, we agreed
    to pay up to $2.0 million of additional cash consideration
    if specified targets, including revenue and customer retention
    results, are achieved within one year of the acquisition dates.
    In 2006, the specified targets of the DENC contingent purchase
    price arrangement were met and related payments of
    $0.5 million were recorded as additional goodwill. In 2007,
    the specified targets of the Cadtrain contingent purchase price
    arrangement were met and related payments of $1.5 million
    were recorded as additional goodwill. These acquisitions added
    to our global consulting and training services organization.
    DENC expanded our consulting delivery capacity and expertise in
    German-speaking Europe and Cadtrain, based in the U.S.,
    developed and provided training solutions for our products.
    These acquisitions were accounted for as business

F-25


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

combinations and resulted in $4.3 million of goodwill and
    $5.9 million of other acquired intangible assets, primarily
    comprised of customer relationship intangibles, which are being
    amortized over a weighted average of 8.3 years. Results of
    operations of DENC and Cadtrain have been included in our
    consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.
    Values assigned to these acquired intangible assets are not
    deductible for tax purposes for the DENC acquisition, but are
    deductible for tax purposes for the Cadtrain acquisition. Our
    results of operations prior to these acquisitions, if presented
    on a pro forma basis, would not differ materially from our
    reported results.

Polyplan
    and Aptavis

During the third quarter of 2005, we acquired Polyplan
    Technologies Inc., a provider of manufacturing process planning
    technology, and Aptavis Technologies Corporation, a provider of
    Windchill-based solutions for the retail, footwear and apparel
    industry for an aggregate total of $6.8 million in cash.
    These acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations
    and resulted in $5.6 million of goodwill and
    $3.3 million in other acquired intangible assets, primarily
    comprised of purchased software, which is being amortized over
    3 years. Results of operations of Polyplan and Aptavis have
    been included in our consolidated financial statements since the
    acquisition date. Values assigned to intangible assets are not
    deductible for tax purposes. Our results of operations prior to
    the acquisition, if presented on a pro forma basis, would not
    differ materially from our reported results.

F.

Goodwill
    and Acquired Intangible Assets

We have two reportable segments: (1) software products and
    (2) services. As of September 30, 2007 and 2006,
    goodwill and acquired intangible assets in the aggregate
    attributable to our software products reportable segment was
    $299.9 million and $300.9 million, respectively, and
    attributable to our services reportable segment was
    $25.2 million and $26.2 million, respectively.
    Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment
    at least annually, or on an interim basis if an event occurs or
    circumstances change that would, more likely than not, reduce
    the fair value of the reporting segment below its carrying
    value. We completed our annual impairment review as of
    June 30, 2007 and concluded that no impairment charge was
    required as of that date. Since that date, there have not been
    any events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the
    carrying values of goodwill or acquired intangible assets may
    not be recoverable.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets consisted of the
    following:

September 30, 2007

September 30, 2006

Gross

Gross

Carrying

Accumulated

Net Book

Carrying

Accumulated

Net Book

Amount

Amortization

Value

Amount

Amortization

Value

(in thousands)

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives (not
    amortized):

Goodwill

$

244,497

$

249,252

Trademarks

—

4,200

244,497

253,452

Intangible assets with finite lives (amortized):

Purchased software

$

70,249

$

42,616

27,633

$

56,096

$

35,098

20,998

Capitalized software

22,877

22,815


22,877

22,252


Customer lists and relationships

68,383

21,566

46,817

64,634

15,195

49,439

Trademarks and tradenames

6,071


5,122

1,645


1,332

Other

2,069

1,148


1,910


1,276

$

169,649

$

89,094

80,555

$

147,162

$

73,492

73,670

Total goodwill and acquired intangible assets

$

325,052

$

327,122

The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible
    assets with indefinite lives at September 30, 2007 from
    September 30, 2006 are due to the impact of acquisitions
    (described in Note E) the $20.0 million decrease
    in goodwill resulting from our reversal of the valuation
    allowance on U.S. net deferred tax assets (see
    Note G), and to foreign currency translation adjustments
    related to those asset balances that are recorded in

non-U.S. currencies.

Additionally, we reclassified trademarks with

F-26


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

a net book value of approximately $4.2 million from
    indefinite lived to finite lived in 2007 based on a
    determination we made in 2007 that the assets now have a finite
    life.

Presented by reportable segment, movements in goodwill were as
    follows:

Software

Products

Services

Segment

Segment

Total

(in thousands)

Balance, October 1, 2005

$

188,548

$

12,080

$

200,628

Acquisition of Mathsoft.

40,972

1,018

41,990

Acquisition of DENC

—

1,650

1,650

Acquisition of Cadtrain

—

2,686

2,686

Acquisition of Arbortext

1,500

—

1,500

Foreign currency translation adjustments




Balance, September 30, 2006

231,699

17,553

249,252

Acquisition of DENC

—

(225

)

(225

)

Additional purchase price paid for Cadtrain acquisition

—

1,500

1,500

Acquisition of ITEDO

11,692

—

11,692

Reversal of valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax
    assets

(18,552

)

(1,419

)

(19,971

)

Acquisition of NC Graphics


—


Foreign currency translation adjustments

1,523


1,725

Balance, September 30, 2007

$

226,886

$

17,611

$

244,497

The aggregate amortization expense for intangible assets with
    finite lives recorded for the years ended September 30,
    2007, 2006 and 2005 was reflected in our consolidated statements
    of operations as follows:

Year ended September 30,




(in thousands)

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

$

7,467

$

6,074

$

1,638

Cost of license revenue

7,384

5,641

2,547

Cost of service revenue



—

Total amortization expense

$

14,933

$

11,950

$

4,185

The estimated aggregate future amortization expense for
    intangible assets with finite lives remaining as of
    September 30, 2007 is $16.5 million for 2008,
    $14.8 million for 2009, $14.1 million for 2010,
    $10.1 million for 2011, $7.1 million for 2012 and
    $18.0 million thereafter.

G. Income Taxes

Our income before income taxes consisted of the following:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

Domestic

$

35,624

$

31,038

$

(5,934

)

Foreign

64,036

39,174

84,502

Total income before income taxes

$

99,660

$

70,212

$

78,568

F-27


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes consisted of the
    following:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

Current:

Federal

$

5,557

$


$

3,043

State

2,005



Foreign

19,101

13,871

9,916

26,663

14,961

13,709

Deferred:

Federal

(66,822

)

—

—

State

(2,132

)

—

—

Foreign

(1,705

)

(1,553

)

(8,328

)

(70,659

)

(1,553

)

(8,328

)

Total provision for (benefit from) income taxes

$

(43,996

)

$

13,408

$

5,381

The reconciliation between the statutory federal income tax rate
    and our effective income tax rate is shown below:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

Statutory federal income tax provision (benefit)


%


%


%

State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit




Foreign dividends

—



Change in valuation allowance

(80

)

(19

)

(31

)

Tax audit and examination settlements

(4

)

(9

)

(15

)

Foreign rate differences



(6

)

Other, net




Effective income tax rate

(44

)%


%


%

At September 30, 2007 and 2006, accrued income taxes of
    $16.9 million and $5.8 million, respectively,
    primarily represented income taxes payable and related income
    tax accruals. In the normal course of business, PTC and its
    subsidiaries are examined by various taxing authorities,
    including the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United
    States. In 2007, we recorded a tax benefit of $3.9 million
    from the favorable outcome of a tax refund claim in the
    U.S. In 2006, we recorded a tax benefit of
    $6.1 million arising from the reduction of our tax
    liabilities upon the favorable resolution of IRS tax audits for
    the years 2001 and 2002. In 2005, we recorded tax benefits of
    $12.1 million arising from the reduction of our tax
    liabilities upon the favorable resolution of tax audits in a
    foreign jurisdiction. We made net income tax payments of
    approximately $17.8 million and $36.6 million in 2007
    and 2006, respectively, and we received net refunds of
    approximately $23.9 million in 2005.

Excluding the effect of these one-time tax benefits, our income
    tax provisions in 2007 and 2006 consisted primarily of taxes
    owed in relation to the income generated by our foreign
    subsidiaries as well as withholding taxes that we incurred in
    the U.S. in connection with certain foreign operations. The
    tax provisions of those periods included only insignificant
    amounts in relation to the income that we generated in the U.S.,
    due to our utilization of available net operating loss
    carryforwards that previously had been recorded in our balance
    sheet with a full valuation allowance.

Net deferred tax assets increased by $86.8 million to
    $97.3 million at September 30, 2007 from
    September 30, 2006, primarily as a result of our decision
    in 2007 to release a substantial portion of the valuation
    allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets

F-28


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

in the U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction. The significant
    temporary differences that created deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are shown below:

September 30,



Restated

Note B

(in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:

Net operating loss carryforwards

$

75,805

$

90,893

Foreign tax credits

42,584

39,559

Minimum pension liability

16,947

18,530

Stock-based compensation

16,024

14,172

Restructuring reserves not currently deductible

7,478

7,464

Customer advance

10,636

10,484

Other reserves not currently deductible

11,412

15,987

Amortization of intangible assets

9,831

12,233

Other tax credits

7,033

1,098

Depreciation

6,541

4,540

Other

6,476

4,700

Gross deferred tax assets

210,767

219,660

Valuation allowance

(76,502

)

(170,028

)

Total deferred tax assets

134,265

49,632

Deferred tax liabilities:

Acquired intangible assets not deductible

(26,000

)

(27,561

)

Pension prepayments

(9,839

)

(10,187

)

Other

(1,092

)

(1,395

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(36,931

)

(39,143

)

Net deferred tax assets

$

97,334

$

10,489

As of the end of the second quarter of 2007, a full valuation
    allowance was recorded against our net deferred tax assets
    (consisting primarily of net operating loss carryforwards) in
    the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Based upon our
    operating results over recent years and through June 30,
    2007, as well as an assessment of our expected future results of
    operations, during the third quarter of 2007, we determined that
    it had become more likely than not that we would realize a
    substantial portion of our net deferred tax assets in the
    U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction. As a result, during the
    third quarter, we released a total of $79.8 million of our
    valuation allowances. Of the $79.8 million valuation
    allowance release, $58.9 million was recorded as a one-time
    income tax benefit, $20.0 million was recorded as a
    reduction to goodwill recorded upon prior acquisitions, and
    $0.9 million was recorded as a decrease to accumulated
    other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity.

As of September 30, 2007, we have a remaining valuation
    allowance of $37.1 million against net deferred tax assets
    in the U.S. and a remaining valuation allowance of
    $39.4 million against net deferred tax assets in certain
    foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowance recorded against
    net deferred tax assets in the U.S. consists of
    $27.7 million for foreign tax credits and $2.7 million
    for capital losses that we have determined are not more likely
    than not to be realized; $6.6 million for stock-based
    compensation deductions that will be credited to additional
    paid-in capital only when realized; and $0.1 million for
    certain state operating loss carryforwards that will likely
    expire without being utilized. The valuation allowance recorded
    against net deferred tax assets of certain foreign jurisdictions
    is established primarily for our net operating loss
    carryforwards that will likely expire without being utilized.

Significant management judgment is required to determine when
    the realization in the future of our net deferred tax assets
    with a valuation allowance of $76.5 million is considered
    more likely than not. If and when we conclude that realization
    is more likely than not, we will record a reduction to our
    valuation allowance that will result in an increase to net
    income and adjustments to goodwill, accumulated other
    comprehensive loss, and additional paid-in capital in the period
    such determination is made.

F-29


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Our valuation allowance was $76.5 million as of
    September 30, 2007, $170.0 million as of
    September 30, 2006, $184.8 million as of
    September 30, 2005, and $159.6 million as of
    September 30, 2004. In 2007, the valuation allowance was
    decreased by $93.5 million. Decreases to the valuation
    allowance were primarily due to:

•

the release, in the third quarter of 2007, of $79.8 million
    of the valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax
    assets in the U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction; and

•

the utilization of U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as
    a result of 2007 operating results, which reduced the valuation
    allowance by approximately $13 million;

In 2006, the valuation allowance was decreased by
    $14.8 million. Decreases to the valuation allowance were
    primarily due to:

•

the utilization of U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as
    a result of 2006 taxable income, which reduced the valuation
    allowance by $13.7 million;

•

the establishment of deferred tax liabilities of
    $11.4 million for acquired intangible assets not deductible
    for tax purposes, which were reduced to $10.6 million as of
    September 30, 2006;

•

the repatriation of $7.6 million of earnings
    ($3.0 million tax-effected) from a foreign subsidiary in
    the form of a dividend;

•

a net decrease in deferred tax assets, primarily for net
    operating losses, of $3.0 million for foreign jurisdictions
    with a full valuation allowance;

•

a net decrease in deferred tax assets and offsetting valuation
    allowance of $1.7 million related to the minimum pension
    liability included in accumulated other comprehensive
    loss; and

•

the reversal of $0.8 million of valuation allowances in a
    foreign jurisdiction due to consistent profitability, which was
    recorded as an income tax benefit in our statement of operations.

These 2006 decreases were partially offset by increases to the
    valuation allowance primarily due to:

•

the recording of deferred tax assets and an offsetting valuation
    allowance of $11.2 million for stock-based compensation;

•

the recording of net deferred tax assets and an offsetting
    valuation allowance in the U.S. of $4.7 million,
    primarily foreign tax credits; and

•

the recording of deferred tax assets (primarily acquired net
    operating loss carryforwards) and an offsetting valuation
    allowance of $3.1 million in the purchase accounting for
    Mathsoft.

In 2005, the valuation allowance was increased by
    $25.2 million. Increases to the valuation allowance were
    primarily due to:

•

the recording of deferred tax assets (primarily acquired net
    operating loss carryforwards) and an offsetting valuation
    allowance of $17.7 million in the purchase accounting for
    Arbortext;

•

the recording of net operating loss carryforwards and an
    offsetting valuation allowance of a foreign jurisdiction of
    $15.7 million not previously recorded;

•

the recording of foreign tax credits and an offsetting valuation
    allowance in the U.S. of $14.6 million;

•

a net increase in U.S. net operating loss carryforwards and
    offsetting valuation allowances of $3.3 million;

•

a net increase in deferred tax assets, primarily for net
    operating loss carryforwards, of $4.8 million for foreign
    jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance; and

•

a net increase in deferred tax assets and offsetting valuation
    allowance of $7.2 million related to the minimum pension
    liability included in accumulated other comprehensive loss.

F-30


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

These 2005 increases were partially offset by decreases to the
    valuation allowance primarily due to:

•

the repatriation of $48.1 million of earnings
    ($18.8 million tax-effected) from our foreign subsidiaries
    in the form of dividends;

•

the establishment of deferred tax liabilities of
    $19.8 million for acquired intangible assets not deductible
    for tax purposes, which were reduced to $18.2 million as of
    September 30, 2005; and

•

the reversal of $4.1 million of valuation allowances in
    certain foreign jurisdictions due to consistent profitability,
    which was recorded as an income tax benefit in our statement of
    operations.

We adopted SFAS 123(R) on July 3, 2005, effective with
    the beginning of our fourth quarter of 2005. We incurred
    expenses related to stock-based compensation in 2007, 2006 and
    2005 of $36.4 million, $38.2 million and
    $15.5 million, respectively. Accounting for the tax effects
    of stock-based awards under SFAS 123(R) requires that we
    establish a deferred tax asset as the book compensation is
    recognized prior to related tax deductions. The tax benefit
    recognized in the consolidated statement of operations related
    to stock-based compensation totaled $31.1 million,
    $0.4 million and $0.2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. The 2007 tax benefit related to stock-based
    compensation includes $17.8 million related to prior years
    recognized upon release of the valuation allowance in 2007 for
    the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Upon the
    settlement of the stock-based awards (i.e., exercise, vesting,
    forfeiture or cancellation), the actual tax deduction is
    compared with the cumulative book compensation cost and any
    excess tax deduction is considered a windfall tax benefit, and
    is tracked in a “windfall tax benefit pool” to offset
    any future tax deduction shortfalls and will be recorded as
    increases to additional paid-in capital in the period when the
    tax deduction reduces income taxes payable. At the date of
    adoption of SFAS 123(R), we were required to calculate our
    cumulative “windfall tax benefit pool” as if we had
    been following the recognition provisions of SFAS 123 since
    that standard went into effect. Taking into account the stock
    option exchange (Note K) and forfeiture of stock
    options by executive officers in 2005, our “windfall tax
    benefit pool” was immaterial as of the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R). Our “windfall tax benefit pool” was
    $4.6 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million as of
    September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

For U.S. tax return purposes, net operating loss
    carryforwards (NOL) and tax credits are generally available to
    be carried forward to future years, subject to certain
    limitations. At September 30, 2007, we had
    U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of $58.6 million, which
    expire ending in 2023 and are available to offset taxable income
    in future years. In addition, we have U.S. federal NOL
    carryforwards of $32.0 million resulting from our
    acquisitions of Arbortext and Mathsoft, which expire beginning
    in 2020 through 2026, and U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of
    $65.0 million resulting from our January 1998 acquisition
    of Computervision, which expire beginning in 2009 through 2023.
    The utilization of the Arbortext, Mathsoft and Computervision
    NOL carryforwards is limited as a result of the change in
    ownership rules under Internal Revenue Code Section 382. We
    also have loss carryforwards in

non-U.S. jurisdictions

totaling $129 million, the majority of which do not expire.
    There are limitations imposed on the utilization of such NOLs
    that could further restrict the recognition of any tax benefits.
    Our NOLs as of September 30, 2007 include deductions from
    stock-based awards of $8.2 million that will be recorded to
    additional paid-in-capital when realized. In 2007, 2006 and
    2005, we recorded realized stock-based award tax benefits in
    certain non-U.S. jurisdictions of $0.3 million,
    $0.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, as
    increases in additional paid-in-capital.

While it has been our historical practice to permanently
    reinvest all

non-U.S. earnings

into our foreign operations, in 2006 and 2005 we repatriated
    $7.6 million and $48.1 million, respectively, from our

non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Repatriation of these earnings did not result in any significant
    incremental charge to our income tax provision as a result of
    utilizing U.S. NOL carryforwards for which we had
    previously maintained a full valuation allowance. We have not
    provided for U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes
    on unrepatriated earnings as it is our current intention to
    permanently reinvest these earnings outside the U.S. If we
    decide to repatriate any additional

non-U.S. earnings,

we may be required to establish a deferred tax liability on such
    earnings through a charge to our income tax provision. The
    cumulative amount of undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries
    for which U.S. income taxes have not been provided totaled
    approximately $94.9 million and $99.8 million as of
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

H.

Commitments
    and Contingencies

Leasing
    Arrangements

We lease office facilities and certain equipment under operating
    leases expiring at various dates through 2014. Certain leases
    require us to pay for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other
    operating expenses in addition to rent. Lease expense, net of

F-31


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

sublease income, was $35.3 million, $33.3 million and
    $30.1 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At
    September 30, 2007, our future minimum lease payments (net
    of sublease income) under noncancellable operating leases are as
    follows:

Year ending September 30,

(in thousands)


$

36,530


30,607


21,655


17,803


15,723

Thereafter

5,242

Total minimum lease payments

$

127,560

Future minimum lease payments under capital leases are
    approximately $0.5 million in 2008 and $0.2 million in
    2009.

As a result of restructuring initiatives in current and prior
    years and consolidating acquired facilities, certain leased
    facilities are excess. The future minimum lease payments above
    include minimum future lease payments for excess facilities, net
    of sublease income under existing sublease arrangements. Our
    total future rental income under current sublease arrangements
    for excess facilities is $19.8 million ($7.7 million
    in 2008, $7.9 million in 2009, $2.1 million in 2010,
    $1.0 million in 2011, $1.0 million in 2012 and
    $0.1 million thereafter).

As of September 30, 2007 and 2006, we had letters of credit
    and bank guarantees outstanding of approximately
    $4.7 million (of which $1.4 million was
    collateralized) and $5.6 million (of which
    $1.6 million was collateralized), respectively, primarily
    related to our corporate headquarters lease in Needham,
    Massachusetts.

Revolving
    Credit Agreement

On February 21, 2006, we entered into a multi-currency bank
    revolving credit facility with a syndicate of seven banks. We
    expect to use the credit facility for general corporate
    purposes, including acquisitions of businesses. The credit
    facility consists of a $230 million revolving credit
    facility, which may be increased by up to an additional
    $150 million if the existing or additional lenders are
    willing to make increased commitments. The credit facility
    expires on February 20, 2011, when all amounts will be due
    and payable in full. Any obligations under the credit facility
    are guaranteed by PTC’s material domestic subsidiaries and
    are collateralized by a pledge of 65% of the capital stock of
    PTC’s material first-tier

non-U.S. subsidiaries.

We have not borrowed any funds under the credit facility to
    date. In connection with entering into this facility, we
    incurred $0.9 million of origination costs, which are being
    expensed over the term of the credit facility.

Interest rates under the credit facility would range from 0.75%
    to 1.50% above the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based
    borrowings or would be at the defined base rate for base rate
    borrowings, in each case based upon our leverage ratio. In
    addition, we may borrow certain foreign currencies at the London
    interbank-offered interest rates for those currencies, with the
    same range above such rates based on our leverage ratio. A
    quarterly commitment fee based on the undrawn portion of the
    credit facility is required to be paid by us, ranging from
    0.125% to 0.30% per year, depending upon our leverage ratio.

The credit facility limits our and our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness;
    incur liens or guarantee obligations; pay dividends and make
    other distributions; make investments and enter into joint
    ventures; dispose of assets; and engage in transactions with
    affiliates, except on an arms-length basis. Under the credit
    facility, we and our material domestic subsidiaries may not
    invest cash or property in, or loan cash to, our foreign
    subsidiaries in aggregate amounts exceeding $25 million for
    any purpose and an additional $50 million for acquisitions
    of businesses. In addition, under the credit facility, we and
    our subsidiaries must maintain specified leverage and
    fixed-charge ratios. Any failure to comply with the financial or
    operating covenants of the credit facility would not only
    prevent us from being able to borrow additional funds, but would
    also constitute a default, resulting in, among other things, the
    amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid
    fees, becoming immediately due and payable. A change in control
    of PTC (as defined in the credit facility) also constitutes an
    event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the
    required payments of all amounts due and to terminate the credit
    facility. We were in compliance with all financial and operating
    covenants of the credit facility as of September 30, 2007.

F-32


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Legal
    Proceedings

On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation
    (“GECL”) filed a lawsuit against us in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The
    lawsuit alleges that GECL was fraudulently induced to provide
    over $60 million in financing to Toshiba Corporation for
    purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC software,
    during the period from 2003 to 2006. GECL claims that PTC
    participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should
    have been aware of the scheme and made negligent
    misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue
    undetected. All of the alleged transactions occurred in Japan.
    GECL claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times
    that amount plus attorneys’ fees. We dispute GECL’s
    claims and intend to contest them vigorously. In connection with
    our restatement of revenue associated with the Toshiba
    transactions described in Note B to our consolidated
    financial statements, approximately $41 million of revenue
    was deferred and classified as Customer Advances in our
    consolidated balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded
    until the rights and obligations of the several companies
    connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the
    extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce
    Customer Advances and record revenue or other income at that
    time. We have not accrued any other liability for this matter as
    of September 30, 2007.

We also are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
    arise in the ordinary course of business. We currently believe
    that resolving these other matters will not have a material
    adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
    operations.

Guarantees
    and Indemnification Obligations

We enter into standard indemnification agreements in our
    ordinary course of business. Pursuant to these agreements, we
    indemnify, hold harmless, and agree to reimburse the indemnified
    party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party,
    generally our business partners or customers, in connection with
    patent, copyright or other intellectual property infringement
    claims by any third party with respect to our current products,
    as well as claims relating to property damage or personal injury
    resulting from the performance of services by us or our
    subcontractors. The maximum potential amount of future payments
    we could be required to make under these indemnification
    agreements is unlimited. Historically, our costs to defend
    lawsuits or settle claims relating to such indemnity agreements
    have been minimal and we accordingly believe the estimated fair
    value of these agreements is immaterial.

We warrant that our software products will perform in all
    material respects in accordance with our standard published
    specifications in effect at the time of delivery of the licensed
    products for a specified period of time (generally 90 to
    180 days). Additionally, we generally warrant that our
    consulting services will be performed consistent with generally
    accepted industry standards. In most cases, liability for these
    warranties is capped. If necessary, we would provide for the
    estimated cost of product and service warranties based on
    specific warranty claims and claim history; however, we have
    never incurred significant cost under our product or services
    warranties. As a result, we believe the estimated fair value of
    these agreements is immaterial.

I.

Stockholders’
    Equity

Preferred
    Stock

We may issue up to 5.0 million shares of our preferred
    stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors is
    authorized to fix the rights and terms for any series of
    preferred stock without additional shareholder approval. In
    November 2000, our Board of Directors authorized and designated
    500,000 shares of preferred stock as Series A Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock for issuance pursuant to our
    Shareholder Rights Plan discussed below in Note J. As of
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, there were no outstanding
    shares of preferred stock.

Common
    Stock

Our Articles of Organization authorize us to issue up to
    500 million shares of our common stock. In September 1998,
    our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
    8.0 million shares of our common stock and in July 2000
    increased the shares authorized for repurchase to
    16.0 million. We had repurchased 12.5 million shares
    through the end of 2004 and did not repurchase any additional
    shares until the third quarter of 2007, when our Board of
    Directors authorized us to resume repurchases within established
    parameters. Those parameters permit us to use up to
    $40 million of cash from operations to repurchase our
    shares through May 15, 2008. In 2007, we repurchased
    557,000 shares at a cost of $10.0 million. Since 1998,
    and through September 30, 2007, we repurchased, at a cost
    of $376.8 million, a total of 13.0 million shares of
    the 16.0 million shares authorized. The repurchased shares
    were available to be used for any purpose, including stock
    option exercises, employee stock

F-33


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

purchase plans and potential acquisitions. All shares of our
    common stock repurchased are automatically restored to the
    status of authorized and unissued.

On February 28, 2006, we implemented a two-for-five reverse
    stock split of our common stock, which resulted in two shares
    outstanding for every five pre-split shares outstanding.
    Historical share data presented in our consolidated financial
    statements and notes thereto have been restated to reflect the
    reverse stock split for all periods presented.

J.

Shareholder
    Rights Plan

In November 2000, our Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder
    Rights Plan and declared a dividend distribution of one share
    purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share
    of our common stock to stockholders of record at the close of
    business on January 5, 2001. Each share of common stock
    newly issued after that date also carries with it one Right.
    Each Right entitles the record holder to purchase from us one
    one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $60.00 per
    unit, subject to adjustment. The Rights become exercisable ten
    (10) days after the earlier of our announcement that a
    person has acquired 15% or more of our outstanding common stock
    or an announcement of a tender offer which would result in a
    person or group acquiring 15% or more of our common stock; in
    either case, the Board of Directors can extend the 10 day
    period. If we have not redeemed or exchanged the Rights and a
    person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common
    stock (a “Triggering Event”), each holder of a Right
    will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock
    having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the
    Right. If, at any time following the Triggering Event, we are
    acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction
    in which we are not the surviving corporation or more than 50%
    of our assets or earning power is sold to a person or group,
    each holder of a Right will have the right to purchase shares of
    common stock of the acquiring person, group or entity having a
    value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. The
    Rights expire on January 5, 2011, and may be redeemed by us
    for $.001 per Right.

K.

Stock
    Plans

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plans

We historically offered an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP)
    for all eligible employees. In light of the revised accounting
    rules under SFAS 123(R) for company-sponsored stock
    purchase plans, we suspended offerings under the ESPP as of the
    date of the offering that was to have commenced on
    February 1, 2005. The ESPP qualifies as an “employee
    stock purchase plan” under Section 423 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. Under the plan, shares of our common stock can be
    purchased at 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the
    stock on the first or the last day of each six-month offering
    period. Employee purchases in any year are limited to the lesser
    of $25,000 worth of stock, determined by the fair market value
    of the common stock at the time the offering begins, or 15% of
    his or her base pay. As of September 30, 2007,
    7.3 million shares of common stock were authorized for
    issuance under the plan and 2.9 million shares were
    available for issuance under the plan. There were no employee
    stock plan share purchases in 2007 or 2006. During 2005,
    employees purchased 0.4 million shares of common stock
    under the plan at an average price of $9.65.

Equity
    Incentive Plans

On March 10, 2005, our stockholders approved amendments to
    our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (2000 Plan) that
    (1) authorized us to exchange and cancel certain
    outstanding out-of-the-money non-executive employee stock
    options for either cash or shares of restricted stock (the
    Exchange), (2) authorized the grant of restricted stock
    units, and (3) enabled us to grant a greater number of
    shares of restricted stock as equity awards. The amendments were
    designed to reduce the overall number of employee stock options
    outstanding and reduce potential stockholder dilution. In
    connection with the amendments to the 2000 Plan, we agreed not
    to make any further grants under any plan other than that plan.

The 2000 Plan provides for grants of nonqualified and incentive
    stock options, common stock, restricted stock, restricted stock
    units and stock appreciation rights to employees, directors,
    officers and consultants. Until July 2005, we generally granted
    stock options. For those options, the option exercise price was
    typically the fair market value at the date of grant, and they
    generally vested over four years and expired ten years from the
    date of grant. Since we adopted SFAS 123(R), we have
    awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units as the
    principal equity incentive awards including certain
    performance-based awards that are earned based on achieving
    performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee
    of our Board of Directors on or prior to the grant date. Each
    restricted stock unit represents the contingent right to receive
    one share of our common stock.

F-34


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Restricted stock and restricted stock unit grants we made in
    2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

Restricted Stock

Restricted Stock Units

Grant Year

Performance-based

Time-based

Performance-based

Time-based

(Number of Units)

(Number of Shares)

Fiscal 2007

495,768

442,590

60,561

1,154,595

Fiscal 2006

515,617

434,800

346,227

1,308,403

Fiscal 2005

323,600

447,600

22,583

1,333,420

Restricted
    Stock

Performance-based.

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we
    granted performance-based shares to our executive officers,
    which shares are earned based on achievement of specified
    performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee
    of our Board of Directors. With respect to the 2007 grants,
    425,373 of the shares were earned and 70,395 were forfeited as
    the performance criteria were not achieved in full. Of the
    earned shares, the restrictions on 215,563 lapsed on
    November 9, 2007 and the restrictions on the remaining
    shares will lapse in two substantially equal installments on
    November 9, 2008 and 2009. With respect to the 2006 grants,
    the restrictions on 115,599 and 284,421 shares lapsed on
    November 9, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and the
    restrictions on the remaining shares will lapse on
    November 9, 2008. With respect to the 2005 grants,
    297,712 shares were earned and 25,888 shares were
    forfeited. The restrictions on the 2005 performance-based shares
    earned lapsed in three substantially equal installments on
    November 1, 2005, 2006 and 2007.

Time-based.

In 2007 and 2006, 366,800 and
    346,800 shares, respectively, were granted to our executive
    officers (on which the restrictions lapse in three substantially
    equal installments on February 15, 2008, 2009 and 2010 and
    November 9, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively) and 75,790
    and 88,000 shares, respectively, were granted to our
    directors on which the restrictions lapse in three substantially
    equal installments on March 7, 2008, 2009 and 2010 and
    February 15, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. In 2005,
    407,600 shares were granted to our executive officers and
    directors (on which the restrictions lapsed in substantially
    equal installments on November 1, 2005, 2006 and
    2007) and 40,000 shares were issued to Michael E.
    Porter, a non-employee director, in connection with a consulting
    agreement we entered into with him (on which the restrictions
    lapse in three substantially equal annual installments on
    July 28, 2006, 2007 and 2008).

Restricted
    Stock Units

Performance-based.

In 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    60,561, 346,227 and 22,583 performance-based restricted stock
    units, respectively, were granted to employees in connection
    with our employee management incentive plans. These
    performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on
    achievement of specified performance criteria established by the
    Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Of the 2007
    performance-based restricted stock units granted, 54,328 vested
    on November 7, 2007. The remaining units were forfeited as
    the performance conditions were not met in full. The
    2006 units were earned in full and vested on
    November 9, 2006. Of the 2005 units granted, 15,057
    vested through 2006 and the remaining were forfeited.

Time-based.

In 2007, 1,154,595 time-based restricted stock units were
    granted to employees, including 347,827 units that vest in
    three substantially equal installments on November 3, 2007,
    2008 and 2009, 801,095 units that vest in three
    substantially equal installments on March 15, 2008, 2009
    and 2010, and 5,673 units that vest in three substantially
    equal installments on July 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010. In
    2006, 1,308,403 time-based restricted stock units were granted
    to employees, including 819,812 units that vest in three
    substantially equal installments on November 9, 2006, 2007
    and 2008, and 488,591 units that vest in three
    substantially equal installments on March 1, 2007, 2008 and
    2009. In 2005, 1,333,420 restricted stock units were granted to
    employees that vest in three substantially equal installments on
    November 1, 2005, 2006 and 2007.

As of September 30, 2007, 4.4 million shares were
    available for grant under the 2000 Plan. As of
    September 30, 2007, 13.2 million shares were reserved
    for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and vesting of
    restricted stock units granted and outstanding.

F-35


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table shows restricted stock activity for the year
    ended September 30, 2007:

Weighted

Aggregate Intrinsic

Average

Value as of

Shares

Grant Date

September 30, 2007

(in thousands)

Fair Value

(in thousands)

Balance of nonvested outstanding restricted stock
    October 1, 2006

1,447

$

16.03

Granted


$

18.67

Vested

(677

)

$

16.07

Balance of nonvested outstanding restricted stock
    September 30, 2007

1,708

$

17.46

$

29,751

The following table shows restricted stock unit activity for the
    year ended September 30, 2007:

Weighted

Aggregate Intrinsic

Average

Value as of

Shares

Grant Date

September 30, 2007

(in thousands)

Fair Value

(in thousands)

Balance of outstanding restricted stock units October 1,

2,329

$

15.34

Granted

1,215

$

18.46

Vested

(1,108

)

$

18.97

Forfeited or not earned

(158

)

$

16.34

Balance of outstanding restricted stock units September 30,

2,278

$

16.94

$

39,691

The following table shows stock option activity for the year
    ended September 30, 2007:

Weighted

Weighted Average

Aggregate

Average

Remaining

Intrinsic

Shares

Exercise

Contractual Term

Value

(in thousands)

Price

(in years)

(in thousands)

Outstanding:

Balance October 1, 2006

12,775

$

14.48

Granted

—

—

Cancelled

(220

)

$

29.56

Exercised

(1,679

)

$

9.32

Balance September 30, 2007

10,876

$

14.97

4.40

$

58,280

Exercisable September 30, 2007

10,261

$

15.21

4.28

$

54,373

During 2007, 2006 and 2005 the following activity occurred under
    our plans:

Year ended September 30,




(in thousands)

Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised

$

16,918

$

5,931

$

5,407

Total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock unit
    awards vested

$

33,889

$

4,161

$

8,047

Shares issued upon vesting of restricted stock units were net of
    0.3 million shares retained by us to cover employee tax
    withholdings of $6.5 million in 2007. Shares issued upon
    vesting of restricted stock units were net of 0.1 million
    shares retained by us to cover employee tax withholdings of
    $2.3 million in 2005.

F-36


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Information for stock options outstanding and exercisable at
    September 30, 2007 was as follows:

Outstanding Options

Exercisable Options

Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Shares

Remaining

Exercise

Shares

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

(in thousands)

Life (years)

Price

(in thousands)

Price

$0.25-$8.30

1,894

5.21

$

6.33

1,894

$

6.33

$8.50-$9.55

2,343

5.26

$

8.89

2,190

$

8.88

$9.75-$12.58

3,058

5.18

$

12.03

2,642

$

12.11

$13.18-$23.36

1,908

3.61

$

20.31

1,862

$

20.49

$24.38-$80.78

1,673

1.74

$

32.57

1,673

$

32.57

$0.25-$80.78

10,876

4.40

$

14.97

10,261

$

15.21

Stock
    Option Exchange and Executive Forfeitures

In 2005, we completed a stock option exchange. Employees holding
    approximately 7.3 million eligible stock options elected to
    participate in the Exchange. The aggregate amount of the cash
    payments made to employees in exchange for their eligible
    options was $12.7 million and was paid in 2005. Of this
    amount, $0.5 million was recorded as compensation expense
    and $12.2 million was recorded as a charge to additional
    paid-in capital in stockholders’ equity, in accordance with
    the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Also in 2005, stock options
    for 1.3 million shares were forfeited voluntarily by
    executive officers.

L.

Employee
    Benefit Plan

We offer a savings plan to eligible U.S. employees. The
    plan is intended to qualify under Section 401(k) of the
    Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may defer up to
    15% of their pre-tax compensation, as defined, but not more than
    statutory limits. Prior to January 1, 2004, we contributed
    50% of the amount contributed by the employee, up to a maximum
    of 10% of the employee’s earnings. Effective
    January 1, 2004, the employer match was reduced to 6% of
    the employee’s earnings. Our matching contributions vest at
    a rate of 25% per year of service. We made matching
    contributions of $3.9 million, $3.2 million and
    $2.8 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

M.

Pension
    Plans

We maintain defined benefit pension plans covering certain
    employees of Computervision, which we acquired in 1998. Benefits
    are based upon length of service and average compensation and
    generally vest after five years of service. The prepaid
    (accrued) pension cost is the difference between amounts that
    have been contributed to the plans and the cumulative expense
    recorded. The pension cost was actuarially computed using
    assumptions applicable to each subsidiary plan and economic
    environment. We adjust our minimum pension liability related to
    our plans due to changes in actuarial assumptions and
    performance of plan investments, as shown below. We use a
    September 30 measurement date for all of the pension plans,
    except for one international plan, which uses June 30.

U.S.
    Pension Plan

Effective April 1, 1990, the benefits under the
    U.S. pension plan were frozen indefinitely. We contribute
    all amounts deemed necessary on an actuarial basis to satisfy
    Internal Revenue Service funding requirements.

International
    Pension Plans

Effective in 1998, benefits under two of the international plans
    were frozen indefinitely.

F-37


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table presents the actuarial assumptions used in
    accounting for the pension plans:

U.S. Plan

International Plans







Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit
    obligations at measurement date:

Discount rate

6.25

%

5.75

%

5.50

%

5.1

%

4.7

%

4.6

%

Rate of increase in future compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—

Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic
    pension cost for fiscal years ended September 30:

Discount rate

5.75

%

5.50

%

6.00

%

4.7

%

4.6

%

5.2

%

Rate of increase in future compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—

Rate of return on plan assets

7.50

%

7.50

%

7.50

%

3.8

%

3.9

%

4.3

%

In selecting the expected long-term rate of return on assets, we
    considered the current investment portfolio and the investment
    return goals in the plans’ investment policy statements.
    We, with input from the plans’ professional investment
    managers, also considered the average rate of earnings expected
    on the funds invested or to be invested to provide plan
    benefits. This process included determining expected returns for
    the various asset classes that comprise the plans’ target
    asset allocation. This basis for selecting the long-term asset
    return assumptions is consistent with the prior year.

For the U.S. plan, the long-term total return goal,
    presently 7.50%, includes income plus realized and unrealized
    gains

and/or

losses on the plan assets. Utilizing generally accepted
    diversification techniques, the plan’s assets, in aggregate
    and at the individual portfolio level, are invested so that the
    total portfolio risk exposure and risk-adjusted returns best
    meet the plan’s long-term liabilities to employees. Plan
    asset allocations are reviewed periodically and rebalanced to
    achieve target allocation among the asset categories when
    necessary.

For the international plans, the rate of return is expected to
    be in line with fixed income local government bonds with
    comparable terms.

The actuarially computed components of net periodic pension cost
    recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for each
    year are shown below:

U.S. Plan

International Plans







(in thousands)

Interest cost of projected benefit obligation

$

4,990

$

4,880

$

4,649

$

3,086

$

2,682

$

2,607

Service cost

—

—

—




Expected return on plan assets

(5,392

)

(5,225

)

(4,568

)

(1,287

)

(1,201

)

(1,340

)

Amortization of prior service cost

—

—

—




Recognized actuarial loss

1,281

1,430

1,274

1,460

1,357


Net periodic pension cost

$


$

1,085

$

1,355

$

4,016

$

3,619

$

2,646

F-38


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following tables display the change in benefit obligation
    and the change in the plan assets and funded status of the plans
    as well as the amounts recognized in our consolidated balance
    sheets:

U.S. Plan

International Plans

Total

Year ended September 30,







(in thousands)

Change in benefit obligation:

Accumulated and projected benefit obligation—beginning of
    year

$

87,783

$

89,828

$

63,411

$

57,882

$

151,194

$

147,710

Service cost

—

—





Interest cost

4,990

4,880

3,086

2,682

8,076

7,562

Actuarial (gain) loss

(2,386

)

(3,299

)

(1,720

)


(4,106

)

(3,021

)

Foreign exchange impact

—

—

4,623

3,495

4,623

3,495

Benefits paid

(3,099

)

(3,626

)

(1,978

)

(1,688

)

(5,077

)

(5,314

)

Accumulated and projected benefit obligation—end of year

$

87,288

$

87,783

$

68,158

$

63,411

$

155,446

$

151,194

Change in plan assets and funded status:

Plan assets at fair value—beginning of year

$

73,085

$

66,786

$

32,874

$

30,667

$

105,959

$

97,453

Actual return on plan assets

8,276

5,765

(1,965

)

1,271

6,311

7,036

Employer contributions

—

4,160

7,719


7,719

4,891

Foreign exchange impact

—

—

2,200

1,713

2,200

1,713

Benefits paid

(3,099

)

(3,626

)

(1,978

)

(1,508

)

(5,077

)

(5,134

)

Plan assets at fair value—end of year

78,262

73,085

38,850

32,874

117,112

105,959

Accumulated and projected benefit obligation—end of year

87,288

87,783

68,158

63,411

155,446

151,194

Funded status

$

(9,026

)

$

(14,698

)

$

(29,308

)

$

(30,537

)

$

(38,334

)

$

(45,235

)

U.S. Plan

International Plans

Total

September 30,







(in thousands)

Amounts recognized in the balance sheet:

Non-current asset

$

—

$

26,107

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

26,107

Non-current liability

(9,026

)

(40,805

)

(29,308

)

(30,537

)

(38,334

)

(71,342

)

$

(9,026

)

$

(14,698

)

$

(29,308

)

$

(30,537

)

$

(38,334

)

$

(45,235

)

U.S. Plan

International Plans

Total

September 30,







Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss:

Unrecognized actuarial loss

$

34,254

$

40,805

$

17,013

$

15,922

$

51,267

$

56,727

Unrecognized prior service cost

—

—

—


—


We expect to recognize approximately $2.6 million of the
    unrecognized actuarial loss as of September 30, 2007 as a
    component of net periodic pension cost in 2008.

Effective September 30, 2007 we adopted the recognition and
    disclosure provisions of FASB Statement No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans

(SFAS 158). As a result of
    the adoption of SFAS 158, we reclassified approximately
    $25 million of non-current assets to non-current
    liabilities to aggregate the net underfunded position and
    present as a net liability in the consolidated
    September 30, 2007 balance sheet.

F-39


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table shows the percentage of total plan assets
    for each major category of plan assets:

U.S. Plan

International Plans

September 30,





Asset category:

Equity securities


%


%

—

—

Fixed income securities


%


%


%


%


%


%


%


%

We periodically review the pension plans’ investments in
    the various asset classes. The current asset allocation target
    is 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities for the
    U.S. plan and 100% fixed income securities for the
    international plans. The fixed income securities for the
    international plans primarily include investments held with
    insurance companies with fixed returns. The plan’s
    investment managers are provided specific guidelines under which
    they are to invest the assets assigned to them. In general,
    investment managers are expected to remain fully invested in
    their asset class with further limitations on risk as related to
    investments in a single security, portfolio turnover and credit
    quality.

The U.S. plan’s investment policy prohibits the use of
    derivatives associated with leverage and speculation or
    investments in securities issued by PTC, except through
    index-related strategies

and/or

commingled funds. An investment committee oversees management of
    the pension plan’s assets. Plan assets consist primarily of
    investments in mutual funds invested in equity and fixed income
    securities.

Based on actuarial valuations and additional voluntary
    contributions, we contributed $7.7 million,
    $4.9 million, and $0.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, to the plans. We expect to make contributions
    totaling approximately $4.3 million in 2008.

As of September 30, 2007, benefit payments expected to be
    paid over the next ten years are outlined in the following table:

International

U.S. Plan

Plans

Total

(in thousands)

Year ending September 30,


$

2,594

$

1,230

$

3,824


2,923

1,306

4,229


3,227

1,178

4,405


3,506

1,538

5,044


3,949

1,988

5,937

2013 to 2017

26,514

11,192

37,706

N.

Segment
    Information

We operate within a single industry segment—computer
    software and related services. Operating segments as defined by
    SFAS 131,

Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
    and Related Information

, are components of an enterprise
    about which separate financial information is available that is
    evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or
    decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and
    in assessing performance. Our chief operating decision-making
    group is our executive officers. We have two operating and
    reportable segments: (1) Software Products, which includes
    license and maintenance revenue (including new releases and
    technical support); and (2) Services, which includes
    consulting, implementation, training and other support revenue.
    In our consolidated statements of operations, maintenance
    revenue is included in service revenue. We do not allocate
    certain sales, marketing or administrative expenses to our
    operating segments, as these activities are managed separately.

We report our revenue in two product categories:

•

Enterprise Solutions, which includes
    Windchill

®

,
    Pro/INTRALINK

®

,
    Arbortext

®

Publishing
    Engine

tm

,
    Arbortext
    IsoView

®

and all other solutions that help companies collaborate, manage
    and publish information across an extended enterprise; and

F-40


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

•

Desktop Solutions, which includes
    Pro/ENGINEER

®

,
    Arbortext
    Editor

tm

,
    Arbortext
    IsoDraw

®

,
    Mathcad

®

and all other solutions that help companies create content and
    improve desktop productivity.

Through the end of the third quarter of 2005, half of
    Pro/INTRALINK revenue was allocated to Desktop Solutions and
    half was allocated to Enterprise Solutions. As a result of the
    new, Windchill-based technology configuration of Pro/INTRALINK
    8.0, beginning as of the fourth quarter of 2005, all
    Pro/INTRALINK revenue is classified as Enterprise Solutions.

The revenue and operating income attributable to these operating
    segments are summarized as follows:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

Revenue:

Software Products Segment:

License:

Desktop Solutions

$

180,679

$

166,670

$

136,249

Enterprise Solutions

115,446

96,801

70,973

Total software products license revenue

296,125

263,471

207,222

Maintenance (1):

Desktop Solutions

328,323

300,877

284,121

Enterprise Solutions

80,089

68,309

56,282

Total software products maintenance revenue

408,412

369,186

340,403

Total software products revenue

704,537

632,657

547,625

Services Segment:

Desktop Solutions

77,926

87,468

71,995

Enterprise Solutions

158,816

127,858

88,355

Total services revenue

236,742

215,326

160,350

Total revenue:

Desktop Solutions

586,928

555,015

492,365

Enterprise Solutions

354,351

292,968

215,610

Total revenue

$

941,279

$

847,983

$

707,975

Operating income: (2) (3) (4)

Software products Segment

$

451,715

$

404,619

$

369,108

Services Segment

19,770

15,903

11,267

Sales and marketing expenses (5)

(297,413

)

(276,693

)

(244,449

)

General and administrative expenses (6)

(81,304

)

(77,316

)

(62,884

)

Total operating income

$

92,768

$

66,513

$

73,042

F-41


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Data for the geographic regions in which we operate is presented
    below:

Year ended September 30,




Restated

Restated

Note B

Note B

(in thousands)

Revenue:

North America (1)

$

365,002

$

360,580

$

271,974

Europe (2)

353,358

287,520

254,178

Asia-Pacific (3)

222,919

199,883

181,823

Total revenue

$

941,279

$

847,983

$

707,975

Long-lived tangible assets:

North America

$

40,001

$

38,530

$

40,931

Europe

6,128

5,604

5,536

Asia-Pacific

8,616

7,469

6,084

Total long-lived tangible assets

$

54,745

$

51,603

$

52,551

Our international revenue is presented based on the location of
    our customer. We license products to customers worldwide. Our
    sales and marketing operations outside the United States are
    conducted principally through our international sales
    subsidiaries throughout Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
    Intercompany sales and transfers between geographic areas are
    accounted for at prices that are designed to be representative
    of unaffiliated party transactions.

O.

Subsequent
    Events

In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired Logistics Business
    Systems Ltd. (LBS), a provider of integrated logistics support
    solutions for the aerospace and defense and civil aviation
    industries, for approximately $16 million in cash. LBS was
    a privately held company based in Preston, UK.

In the first quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement to
    acquire CoCreate Software GmbH, a provider of PLM and CAD
    modeling solutions, for approximately $250 million, net of
    cash acquired and excluding transaction fees. CoCreate is a
    privately held company based in Sindelfingen, Germany. The
    transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of
    2008. On November 28, 2007, we borrowed $220 million
    under our existing revolving credit facility in connection with
    this planned acquisition.

In November 2007, we granted an aggregate of 831,368 shares
    of restricted stock to our executive officers. Of those shares,
    an aggregate of 477,830 with an intrinsic value at the time of
    grant of approximately $8.9 million were issued in
    connection with our Executive Incentive Performance Plan for the
    2008 fiscal year performance period (the EIP Shares) and an
    aggregate of

F-42


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

354,038 shares with an intrinsic value at the time of grant
    of approximately $6.6 million were issued as part of our
    annual equity incentive program (Annual Shares). The EIP Shares
    and the Annual Shares are earned based on performance conditions
    established by the Compensation Committee of our Board of
    Directors on the grant date (the performance criteria). All of
    the shares are subject to service conditions. The restrictions
    on the EIP Shares will lapse based on achievement of the
    performance criteria on the later of November 9, 2008 or
    the date the Compensation Committee determines the extent to
    which the performance criteria have been achieved. The Annual
    Shares earned under the performance criteria are then subject to
    time-based restrictions that lapse as to substantially one-third
    of such shares on each of (i) the later of November 9,
    2008 or the date the Compensation Committee determines the
    performance criteria have been achieved,
    (ii) November 9, 2009 and (iii) November 9,
    2010.

In November 2007, we also issued an aggregate of 2,391,774
    restricted stock units. Of those restricted stock units,
    (i) 88,215 with an intrinsic value at the time of grant of
    approximately $1.6 million are performance-based and were
    issued in connection with our employee management incentive
    plans for 2008 and will vest to the extent the performance
    criteria are achieved on the later of November 7, 2008 or
    the date the Compensation Committee determines the extent to
    which the performance criteria have been achieved,
    (ii) 760,277 with an intrinsic value at the time of grant
    of approximately $14.1 million were issued to employees as
    part of our annual equity incentive program and substantially
    all of which will vest in three equal installments on each of
    November 15, 2008, 2009 and 2010, and (iii) 1,543,282
    with an intrinsic value at the time of grant of approximately
    $28.7 million were issued to employees as a special
    retention grant and will vest as to two-thirds of such
    restricted stock units on November 15, 2009 and as to the
    remaining restricted stock units on November 15, 2010.

P.

Restatement
    of Quarterly Financial Statements (unaudited)

The following tables set forth the effects for the quarters in
    2007 and 2006 of the restatement described in Note B. Our
    restatement also includes an adjustment to correct our third
    quarter 2007 financial statements for the $10.4 million
    overstatement of reported net income, which resulted from tax
    errors detected in the fourth quarter of 2007 relating primarily
    to our release in the third quarter of a substantial portion of
    the valuation allowance for our U.S. net deferred tax
    assets.

F-43


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

2007 Quarters

Third

Second

First

Previously

Previously

Previously

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

(in thousands)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

259,956

$

259,956

$

238,027

$

238,027

$

147,341

$

147,341

Accounts receivable

171,764

171,764

185,002

185,002

195,757

195,757

Prepaid expenses

26,995

26,995

24,779

24,779

21,001

21,001

Other current assets

52,960

52,960

65,907

65,907

58,314

58,314

Deferred tax assets

23,283

23,283

1,728

1,728

1,327

1,327

Total current assets

534,958

534,958

515,443

515,443

423,740

423,740

Property and equipment, net

55,358

55,358

52,284

52,284

52,441

52,441

Goodwill

245,733

245,733

262,936

262,936

263,585

263,585

Acquired intangible assets, net

81,632

81,632

79,256

79,256

79,796

79,796

Deferred tax assets

63,694

63,523

1,420

7,372

2,983

8,858

Other assets

69,986

69,986

68,844

68,844

74,142

74,142

Total assets

$

1,051,361

$

1,051,190

$

980,183

$

986,135

$

896,687

$

902,562

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

19,004

$

19,004

$

17,965

$

17,965

$

20,284

$

20,284

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities

52,848

52,848

52,791

52,791

49,500

49,500

Accrued compensation and benefits

54,599

54,599

57,497

57,497

48,930

48,930

Accrued income taxes

9,816

8,511

10,259

8,954

9,426

8,121

Customer advances

—

38,020

—

39,510

—

38,999

Deferred revenue

223,151

223,151

240,475

240,475

196,014

196,014

Total current liabilities

359,418

396,133

378,987

417,192

324,154

361,848

Other liabilities

96,065

96,065

96,957

96,957

96,996

96,996

Deferred revenue

8,225

8,225

9,615

9,615

9,540

9,540

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock

1,150

1,150

1,148

1,148

1,139

1,139

Additional paid-in capital

1,751,907

1,751,907

1,745,614

1,745,614

1,734,512

1,734,512

Accumulated deficit

(1,122,912

)

(1,163,204

)

(1,210,140

)

(1,243,669

)

(1,227,539

)

(1,261,068

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(42,492

)

(39,086

)

(41,998

)

(40,722

)

(42,115

)

(40,405

)

Total stockholders’ equity

587,653

550,767

494,624

462,371

465,997

434,178

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

1,051,361

$

1,051,190

$

980,183

$

986,135

$

896,687

$

902,562

F-44


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

2006 Quarters

Fourth

Third

Second

First

Previously

Previously

Previously

Previously

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

(in thousands)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

183,448

$

183,448

$

173,893

$

173,893

$

224,165

$

224,165

$

167,152

$

167,152

Accounts receivable

181,008

181,008

163,165

163,165

149,731

149,731

155,113

155,113

Prepaid expenses

20,495

20,495

21,606

21,606

22,797

22,797

20,832

20,832

Other current assets

51,824

51,824

48,430

48,430

58,931

58,931

50,654

50,654

Deferred tax assets

1,341

1,341

1,565

1,565

1,568

1,568

1,677

1,677

Total current assets

438,116

438,116

408,659

408,659

457,192

457,192

395,428

395,428

Property and equipment, net

51,603

51,603

51,207

51,207

50,184

50,184

50,543

50,543

Goodwill

249,252

249,252

247,057

247,057

206,709

206,709

206,883

206,883

Acquired intangible assets, net

77,870

77,870

81,565

81,565

58,795

58,795

61,110

61,110

Deferred tax assets

3,205

9,148

2,833

8,641

2,678

8,228

2,482

7,340

Other assets

75,398

75,398

60,633

60,633

53,743

53,743

55,612

55,612

Total assets

$

895,444

$

901,387

$

851,954

$

857,762

$

829,301

$

834,851

$

772,058

$

776,916

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

17,109

$

17,109

$

20,007

$

20,007

$

15,116

$

15,116

$

15,177

$

15,177

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities

52,128

52,128

45,048

45,048

41,712

41,712

46,133

46,133

Accrued compensation and benefits

72,632

72,632

55,664

55,664

50,215

50,215

44,361

44,361

Accrued income taxes

7,066

5,761

5,282

3,977

24,486

23,181

26,869

25,564

Customer advances

—

39,475

—

38,577

—

36,873

—

32,281

Deferred revenue

197,769

197,769

220,243

220,243

220,214

220,214

182,638

182,638

Total current liabilities

346,704

384,874

346,244

383,516

351,743

387,311

315,178

346,154

Other liabilities

97,413

97,413

100,667

100,667

101,771

101,771

101,921

101,921

Deferred revenue

13,228

13,228

11,995

11,995

12,331

12,331

13,457

13,457

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock

1,119

1,119

1,115

1,115

1,113

1,113

1,110

1,110

Additional paid-in capital

1,723,570

1,723,570

1,708,543

1,710,823

1,697,327

1,699,607

1,685,720

1,688,000

Accumulated deficit

(1,242,692

)

(1,276,221

)

(1,268,415

)

(1,303,200

)

(1,285,291

)

(1,319,114

)

(1,296,042

)

(1,325,672

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(43,898

)

(42,596

)

(48,195

)

(47,154

)

(49,693

)

(48,168

)

(49,286

)

(48,054

)

Total stockholders’ equity

438,099

405,872

393,048

361,584

363,456

333,438

341,502

315,384

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

895,444

$

901,387

$

851,954

$

857,762

$

829,301

$

834,851

$

772,058

$

776,916

F-45


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

2007 Quarters(2)

Third

Previously

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Reported

Restated(1)

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue:

License

$

62,098

$

62,098

Service

162,998

162,766

Total revenue

225,096

224,864

Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue

4,084

4,084

Cost of service revenue

67,673

67,673

Sales and marketing

74,573

74,573

Research and development

39,798

39,798

General and administrative

16,855

16,855

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

1,764

1,764

In-process research and development



Restructuring and other charges

—

—

Total costs and expenses

205,291

205,291

Operating income

19,805

19,573

Other income (expense), net

2,268

2,268

Income before income taxes

22,073

21,841

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

(65,155

)

(58,624

)

Net income

$

87,228

$

80,465

Earnings per share—Basic

$

0.77

$

0.71

Earnings per share—Diluted

$

0.74

$

0.68

(1)

In addition to the restatement items described in Note B,
    our restatement includes an adjustment to correct our third
    quarter 2007 financial statements for the $10.4 million
    overstatement of reported net income, which resulted from tax
    errors detected in the fourth quarter of 2007 relating primarily
    to our release in the third quarter of a substantial portion of
    the valuation allowance for our U.S. net deferred tax assets.

(2)

Our consolidated statements of operations for the first and
    second quarters of 2007 were not affected by the restatement
    described in Note B.

F-46


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

2006 Quarters

Fourth

Third

Second

First

Previously

Previously

Previously

Previously

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue:

License

$

84,608

$

84,608

$

65,711

$

65,711

$

54,614

$

54,172

$

58,527

$

58,980

Service

160,894

159,689

150,993

149,854

145,580

141,097

133,991

133,872

Total revenue

245,502

244,297

216,704

215,565

200,194

195,269

192,518

192,852

Costs and expenses:

Cost of license revenue

4,031

4,031

2,995

2,995

1,889

1,889

3,303

3,303

Cost of service revenue

69,473

69,301

65,579

65,579

63,641

63,641

58,722

59,001

Sales and marketing

76,349

74,801

70,033

70,033

64,260

64,260

63,645

63,924

Research and development

39,861

39,480

36,905

36,905

35,989

35,989

34,583

34,583

General and administrative

22,107

21,928

18,038

18,038

18,039

18,039

19,629

19,629

Amortization of acquired intangible assets

1,782

1,782

1,646

1,646

1,288

1,288

1,358

1,358

In-process research and development

—

—

2,100

2,100

—

—

—

—

Restructuring and other charges

—

—

5,947

5,947

—

—

—

—

Total costs and expenses

213,603

211,323

203,243

203,243

185,106

185,106

181,240

181,798

Operating income

31,899

32,974

13,461

12,322

15,088

10,163

11,278

11,054

Other income (expense), net







1,099

1,099

Income before income taxes

32,855

33,930

14,301

13,162

15,892

10,967

12,377

12,153

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

7,132

6,951

(2,575

)

(2,752

)

5,141

4,409

4,861

4,800

Net income

$

25,723

$

26,979

$

16,876

$

15,914

$

10,751

$

6,558

$

7,516

$

7,353

Earnings per share—Basic

$

0.23

$

0.24

$

0.15

$

0.14

$

0.10

$

0.06

$

0.07

$

0.07

Earnings per share—Diluted

$

0.22

$

0.24

$

0.15

$

0.14

$

0.09

$

0.06

$

0.07

$

0.07

F-47


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Three months ended(1)

December 31, 2005

Previously

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Reported

Restated

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

7,516

$

7,353

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

8,061

8,061

Stock-based compensation

9,664

9,664

Other non-cash costs (credits), net



Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

(4,720

)

(4,720

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(5,222

)

(4,664

)

Customer advances

—


Accrued compensation and benefits

(23,464

)

(23,464

)

Deferred revenue

(8,947

)

(9,697

)

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

(2,673

)

(2,673

)

Other current assets and prepaid expense

2,579

2,579

Other noncurrent assets and liabilities

(4,903

)

(4,903

)

Net cash used by operating activities

(21,467

)

(21,467

)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Additions to property and equipment

(3,350

)

(3,350

)

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(10,675

)

(10,675

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(14,025

)

(14,025

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of common stock



Payments of withholding taxes in connection with settlement of
    restricted stock units

(102

)

(102

)

Tax benefit from stock-based awards

—

—

Payments of capital leases

(94

)

(94

)

Net cash provided by financing activities



Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(2,415

)

(2,415

)

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(37,271

)

(37,271

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

204,423

204,423

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

167,152

$

167,152

(1)

Our consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months
    ended December 31, 2005 was not affected by the restatement
    described in Note B.

F-48


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Six months ended(1)

April 1, 2006

Previously

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Reported

Restated

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

18,267

$

13,911

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

16,124

16,124

Stock-based compensation

19,204

19,204

Other non-cash costs (credits), net

1,057


Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

5,721

5,721

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(10,862

)

(10,304

)

Customer advances

—

5,341

Accrued compensation and benefits

(17,872

)

(17,872

)

Deferred revenue

21,311

20,561

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

(5,069

)

(5,069

)

Other current assets and prepaid expense

(437

)

(437

)

Other noncurrent assets and liabilities

(7,970

)

(7,970

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

39,474

39,474

Cash flows from investing activities:

Additions to property and equipment

(8,154

)

(8,154

)

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(10,675

)

(10,675

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(18,829

)

(18,829

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

2,902

2,902

Payments of withholding taxes in connection with settlement of
    restricted stock units

(102

)

(102

)

Tax benefit from stock-based awards

—

—

Credit facility origination costs

(881

)

(881

)

Payments of capital leases

(220

)

(220

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

1,699

1,699

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(2,602

)

(2,602

)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

19,742

19,742

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

204,423

204,423

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

224,165

$

224,165

(1)

Our consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months
    ended April 1, 2006 was not affected by the restatement
    described in Note B.

F-49


PARAMETRIC
    TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Nine months ended

June 30, 2007

July 1, 2006

Previously

Previously

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Reported

Restated

Reported

Restated

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

119,780

$

113,017

$

35,143

$

29,825

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

28,882

28,882

24,809

24,809

Stock-based compensation

22,507

22,507

29,273

29,273

Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes

(65,516

)

(58,985

)

—

—

In-process research and development



2,100

2,100

Other non-cash costs (credits), net



1,958


Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

33,483

33,483



Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(5,201

)

(5,201

)

(10,487

)

(9,929

)

Customer advances

—


—

6,480

Accrued compensation and benefits

(20,798

)

(20,798

)

(14,353

)

(14,353

)

Deferred revenue

21,454

21,454

21,679

20,929

Accrued income taxes, net of income tax receivable

(3,323

)

(3,323

)

(24,572

)

(24,572

)

Other current assets and prepaid expense

(3,150

)

(3,150

)

4,411

4,411

Other noncurrent assets and liabilities

(14,424

)

(14,424

)

(17,135

)

(17,135

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

115,072

115,072

53,463

53,463

Cash flows from investing activities:

Additions to property and equipment

(17,139

)

(17,139

)

(13,065

)

(13,065

)

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(24,546

)

(24,546

)

(75,084

)

(75,084

)

Acquisition of remaining equity interest in a controlled
    subsidiary

(3,972

)

(3,972

)

—

—

Net cash used by investing activities

(45,657

)

(45,657

)

(88,149

)

(88,149

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

13,875

13,875

4,052

4,052

Payments of withholding taxes in connection with settlement of
    restricted stock units

(6,496

)

(6,496

)

(102

)

(102

)

Repurchase of common stock

(1,809

)

(1,809

)

—

—

Tax benefit from stock-based awards



—

—

Credit facility origination costs

—

—

(897

)

(897

)

Payments of capital leases

(369

)

(369

)

(323

)

(323

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

5,493

5,493

2,730

2,730

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

1,600

1,600

1,426

1,426

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

76,508

76,508

(30,530

)

(30,530

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

183,448

183,448

204,423

204,423

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

259,956

$

259,956

$

173,893

$

173,893

F-50


REPORT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Parametric
    Technology Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
    all material respects, the financial position of Parametric
    Technology Corporation and its subsidiaries at
    September 30, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended September 30, 2007 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company did not maintain, in
    all material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2007, based on criteria
    established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (COSO) because a material weakness in
    internal control over financial reporting related to the
    accounting for income taxes existed as of that date. A material
    weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in
    internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a
    reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the
    annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or
    detected on a timely basis. The material weakness referred to
    above is described in “Management’s Annual Report on
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting” appearing under
    Item 9A. We considered this material weakness in determining the
    nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit
    of the 2007 consolidated financial statements, and our opinion
    regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting does not affect our opinion on
    those consolidated financial statements. The Company’s
    management is responsible for these financial statements, for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting included in management’s report
    referred to above. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
    these financial statements and on the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

As discussed in Note A to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for share-based compensation as of July 3, 2005. As
    discussed in Note M to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans
    effective September 30, 2007.

As discussed in Note B to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company has restated its 2006 and 2005
    consolidated financial statements.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

November 29, 2007

F-51