
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED: SEPTEMBER 30, 1998
                                      OR
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-18059
 
                       PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
            MASSACHUSETTS                              04-2866152
   (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF           (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION
   INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                        NUMBER)
 
                    128 TECHNOLOGY DRIVE, WALTHAM, MA 02453
         (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES, INCLUDING ZIP CODE)
 
                                (781) 398-5000
             (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 
  Securities registered pursuant to         Securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12(b) of the Act:                 Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                None                        Common Stock, $.01 par value per
                                                          share
                                                    (Title of Class)
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has (i) filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (ii) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES X  NO
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of our voting stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $3,802,373,342 on October 31, 1998 based on the last reported
sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market on that day. There
were 269,423,460 shares of our common stock outstanding on October 31, 1998.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 1998 (1998 Annual Report to Stockholders) are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II.
 
  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held February 11, 1999 (1999 Proxy Statement)
are incorporated by reference into Part III.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                       PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
 
                    FISCAL YEAR 1998 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                

 

 
                IMPORTANT RISK FACTORS REGARDING FUTURE RESULTS
 
  Information we provide, including information contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, or by our spokespersons from time to time, may contain
forward-looking statements about projected financial performance, market and
industry segment growth, product development, and commercialization, or other
aspects of our future operations. These statements are based on the
assumptions and expectations of our management at the time such statements are
made. We caution you that our performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking
statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors,
including but not limited to those discussed here, may cause our future
results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statement. Important information about these factors and the basis for these
assumptions is contained in "Important Risk Factors Affecting Results"
included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which
section is filed as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated herein by
reference.
 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1: BUSINESS
 
                                    GENERAL
 
  Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC), incorporated in Massachusetts in
1985, develops, markets, and supports a comprehensive suite of integrated
product development and information management software. Our mechanical design
automation product family automates product development from conceptual design
through production. Our enterprise information management solutions accelerate
the flow of product data from engineering to other critical areas of an
enterprise. Our solutions are complemented by the strength and experience of
our professional services organization, which provides training, consulting,
and support to customers worldwide.
 
                           MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS
 
  In January 1998, we merged with Computervision Corporation, a leading
provider of product design and development software and services, by issuing
11.6 million shares of our common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding
common stock of Computervision. The merger is intended to qualify as a tax-
free reorganization and has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated financial statements to include
the accounts and operations of Computervision for all years presented in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated, this discussion and
the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial
statements (Notes) reflect that restatement.
 
  The Computervision merger strengthened our customer base, particularly in
the automotive, aerospace, and shipbuilding industries, and broadened our
strategic business relationships with companies such as Airbus Industrie, BMW
Rolls-Royce, Fiat, General Electric, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, and Rolls-
Royce Aerospace. The Computervision merger also provided an opportunity for us
to expand our data management technology and infrastructure, and added depth
and experience to our worldwide professional services organization.
 
  In June 1998, we acquired ICEM Technologies, a division of Control Data
Systems, Inc., for approximately $41 million in cash. Headquartered in
Frankfurt, Germany, ICEM provides advanced surfacing and reverse engineering
software tools used by body and styling engineers in the automotive and
aerospace industries. We accounted for the acquisition as a purchase, and we
included the operating results of ICEM in our results from the date of its
acquisition.
 
 

 
  In October 1998, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of InPart Design,
Inc. by issuing 2.4 million shares of common stock. InPart, located in
Saratoga, CA, provides a comprehensive library of standard mechanical parts
over the Internet that helps manufacturers improve product development cycles
and reduce component expenses. Because we share InPart's vision regarding the
future of Web-based enterprise applications, the acquisition provided us an
opportunity to strengthen our development and technical expertise in this
area. We will account for the acquisition as a purchase.
 
                             PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
  Mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE (computer-aided design, manufacturing and
engineering) software solutions encompass a broad spectrum of engineering
disciplines essential to the development of virtually all manufactured
products, ranging from consumer products to jet aircraft. Manufacturers
compete on the basis of cost, time to market, and product performance
criteria, which are significantly affected by the quality and length of the
product development process. Our mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE products, including
Pro/ENGINEER(R) and CADDS(R)5, and our functional simulation software,
Pro/MECHANICA(R), offer high-performance, fully integrated solutions which
enable end-users to reduce their time to market and manufacturing costs for
their products and to improve product quality by easily evaluating multiple
design alternatives. We believe that our mechanical design automation
solutions offer better price/performance, greater functionality, and more
complete integration of multiple engineering disciplines than other available
mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE products.
 
  The newest member of the Pro/ENGINEER family, Pro/DESKTOP(TM), is an entry
level, Windows(R)-native product development tool. Pro/DESKTOP offers an
easily accessible, innovative design system that, integrated with
Pro/ENGINEER, provides customers a completely scalable, interoperable suite of
associative design solutions that meet the needs of users throughout the
product development continuum. This cross-organization suite gives our
customers the unique ability to engage a broader range of participants in the
product development process and to extend the use of their product information
assets throughout the enterprise.
 
  Through our acquisition of ICEM Technologies, we have added a premier Class
A surface modeling product, ICEM Surf(TM), to our mechanical design automation
solutions. ICEM Surf is used in the automotive industry by nearly all major
manufacturers for modeling of high-quality, Class A surfaces as well as in the
industrial design, tool design, and consumer product markets.
 
  In June 1998, we announced that our information management products,
Pro/INTRALINK(R) and Optegra(R), would be complemented by Windchill(TM), our
new product and process management solution. Windchill uses a unique, Web-
centric approach to solving today's mission-critical product and process
management challenges. By capitalizing on the inherent benefits of the Web
manageability, usability, and low cost implementation Windchill offers
customers a significant advantage in their efforts to improve their product
differentiation and organizational effectiveness. Windchill delivers a common
infrastructure that helps companies achieve sustained competitive advantage
through more effective product life cycle management. The Windchill product
currently comprises Windchill Foundation(TM), an information framework with a
consistent architecture that includes document management, life cycle
management, workflow, and vaulting capabilities; Windchill PDM(TM), which
includes applications that address product structure, alternate views, and
change management; and Windchill Information Modeler(TM), an information
modeling and development environment.
 
  As a result of our acquisition of InPart Design, Inc., we now offer
DesignSuite(TM), an Internet-based library of three dimensional CAD parts.
DesignSuite contains two and three dimensional geometry, technical
specifications, and component selection software that allows mechanical
engineers to download more than 250,000 certified part designs via the
Internet, saving valuable time and expense.
 
  The technology solutions offered by our mechanical design and information
management products are enhanced by our professional services organization
(PSO), which is committed to providing the expertise to meet the
implementation, education, and technical support requirements of every type of
company and user--in eight
 

 
major support centers and more than 50 educational facilities worldwide. From
developing Pro/ENGINEER deployment plans, to creating customized training
courses, to implementing Web-based, enterprise-wide, product information
systems, our PSO works with customers to accelerate their migration to a more
efficient, collaborative development environment.
 
                              PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
  The mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE industry is characterized by rapid technological
advances. Our ability to develop new products rapidly is facilitated by the
modular structure of our software code, which enables functional capabilities
used in existing products to be accessed and utilized by new software modules,
thereby reducing the amount of new code required to develop additional
products. The major benefit of this approach is rapid development of new
functionality. Our Windchill product line expands the breadth of our offerings
into enterprise product information and process management. This developing
industry is characterized by new technologies, including Internet-centric,
Java-based, object-oriented software. The Windchill product depends upon these
new technologies as well as certain third-party technologies.
 
  We work closely with our customers to define improvements and enhancements
to be integrated into our products. Using this approach, customers become
involved in the product design process to validate feasibility and to
influence functionality early in the product's life-cycle. In addition, our
Cooperative Software Program (CSP) provides the mechanism and environment to
facilitate the integration of complementary products with our product lines.
Through our open software toolkit, CSP members can build tightly integrated
solutions that satisfy the various requirements of our customers.
 
  Our research and development expenses were $79.6 million in fiscal 1996,
$93.3 million in fiscal 1997, and $93.4 million in fiscal 1998.
 
                              SALES AND MARKETING
 
  We derived most of our revenue from products distributed directly to our
end-user customers with the remainder offered through third-party
distributors. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in
any of the last three fiscal years.
 
  In the fourth quarter of 1998, we initiated a worldwide reorganization of
our sales force and PSO. This initiative, which was implemented in October
1998, was designed to refocus our sales and services organizations on major
accounts, primary accounts, and Windchill accounts. As part of this
initiative, we signed a multi-year agreement with Rand A Technology
Corporation (Rand) to become the master distributor of our core products to
small businesses. This agreement gives Rand the rights to distribute certain
CAD/CAM/CAE products and their related maintenance services to the small
business segment throughout North America and Europe.
 
  In August 1998, we repackaged and repriced our core Pro/ENGINEER product
line. We now offer a base package called Pro/ENGINEER-Foundation which can be
augmented with up to 24 functionally defined extensions to accommodate a full
range of process automation and complexity requirements from an individual
user to an entire enterprise.
 
  Information about our foreign and domestic operations and export sales, and
the risks thereof, may be found in Note M and the section entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" of our 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, included in Exhibit
13.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
                                  COMPETITION
 
  There are an increasing number of competitive mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE
products. We compete most directly with products developed by Dassault and
marketed by Dassault and IBM, products marketed by Unigraphics Solutions, and
products developed and marketed by Structural Dynamics Research Corporation.
Our Windchill product line expands the breadth of our offerings into
enterprise product information and process management. We are a relatively new
entrant into this area and may be competing with more mature products that may
have an established customer base as well as greater functionality.
 
                              PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
 
  Our software products are proprietary to PTC. We protect our intellectual
property rights by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents, and common law
safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on
disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other
parties. Despite these measures, there can be no assurance that the laws of
all relevant jurisdictions will afford the same protections to our products
and intellectual property as the laws of the United States. The software
industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent,
and other intellectual property rights. While we have not, to date, had any
significant claims of this type asserted against us, there can be no assurance
that someone will not assert such claims against us with respect to existing
or future products or that, if asserted, we would prevail in such claims. In
the event a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant
expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management
personnel, whether or not we ultimately prevail.
 
  We believe that, due to the rapid pace of innovation within our industry,
factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel are
more important to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership
position within the industry than are the various legal protections
surrounding our technology. We believe that our products and technology do not
infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, although there can be no
assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the
future.
 
  Parametric Technology Corporation, Pro/ENGINEER, Pro/MECHANICA,
Pro/INTRALINK, CADDS, and Optegra are registered trademarks of PTC or our
subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. Parametric
Technology, PTC, the PTC logo, and all product names in the PTC product family
are trademarks of PTC or our subsidiaries in the United States and other
countries. All other companies and products referenced herein have trademarks
or registered trademarks of their respective holders.
 
                                    BACKLOG
 
  We generally ship our products within 30 days after acceptance of a customer
purchase order and execution of a software license agreement. Accordingly, we
do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is indicative
of future sales levels.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
  As of September 30, 1998, we had 4,911 employees, including 2,440 in sales,
marketing, and support activities; 1,078 in customer support, training, and
consulting; 435 in management, finance, and administration; and 958 in product
development. Of these employees, 2,280 were located throughout the United
States and 2,631 were located in foreign countries.
 
ITEM 2: PROPERTIES
 
  Our executive offices are located in approximately 302,000 square feet of
office space in Waltham, Massachusetts. We also lease 229 offices in the
United States and internationally through our foreign subsidiaries,
predominately as sales and/or support offices and for development work. Of our
total 2,146,000
 

 
square feet of leased facilities, 1,387,000 are located in the U.S. and
759,000 are located outside the U.S. Several of our leased facilities were
acquired in our merger with Computervision, including 696,000 square feet of
office space in Bedford, Massachusetts. Of the leased facilities acquired in
the Computervision merger, approximately 273,000 square feet are vacant. As
described in Notes B and H, certain of these facilities have been included in
our restructuring provision. We are seeking alternate uses for such facilities
including subleasing and early lease terminations. We believe that our
facilities are adequate for our present needs, but will continue to evaluate
the need for additional space as the requirements of our business change.
 
ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  Certain class action lawsuits were filed in the fourth quarter of fiscal
1998 against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors
in the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts claiming violations of the federal
securities laws based on alleged misrepresentations regarding our anticipated
revenue and earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 1998. These actions seek
unspecified damages. We believe the claims are without merit, and we intend to
defend them vigorously. We cannot predict the ultimate resolution of these
actions at this time, and there can be no assurance that the litigation will
not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
operations.
 
  We are also subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in
the ordinary course of business. We currently believe that resolving these
matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or
our results of operations.
 
ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the last
quarter of fiscal 1998.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The executive officers are:
 

 
  Mr. Walske has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since August 1994 and
Chief Executive Officer and a director since he joined PTC in December 1986.
Mr. Walske was President of PTC from December 1986 to August 1994.
 
  Mr. Harrison has been President, Chief Operating Officer, and a director
since August 1994. Mr. Harrison had served as Senior Vice President of Sales
and Distribution from September 1991 until August 1994.
 
  Mr. Gillis has been Executive Vice President since October 1996 and Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer since October 1995. Mr. Gillis had served as
Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration from October 1995 to
September 1996. Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Gillis was Senior Vice President of
Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer at Lotus Development
Corporation from August 1991 until September 1995.
 
  Mr. Baum has been Executive Vice President, Engineering, Research &
Development since October 1998. Mr. Baum had served as Senior Vice President,
Product Development from February 1998 to September 1998, Senior Vice
President, Information Technology and Manufacturing Applications from May 1997
to January 1998, Senior Vice President, Product Marketing from December 1996
to April 1997, Vice President, Technical Marketing from October 1995 to
November 1996, and Director of Design/Manufacturing Applications from May 1993
to September 1995.
 

 
  Mr. Cohen has been Executive Vice President, Marketing since January 1998.
Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Cohen was Senior Vice President, Human Development
and Organizational Productivity at Computervision Corporation from November
1993 to January 1998.
 
  Mr. Cusick has been Senior Vice President of Finance since November 1998.
Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Cusick was Divisional Finance Director at Ascend
Communications, Inc. from July 1997 to September 1998 and Corporate Controller
at Cascade Communications Corp. from April 1994 to June 1997.
 
  Mr. Friedman has served as Vice President, General Counsel, and Clerk since
October 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Friedman served as Associate Corporate
Counsel from September 1996 to September 1998. Prior to joining PTC, Mr.
Friedman was a Partner at the law firm of Palmer and Dodge LLP from January
1994 to August 1996.
 
  Mr. Kelliher has been Senior Vice President of Business Development since
November 1998. Mr. Kelliher had served as Senior Vice President of Finance
from June 1997 to October 1998, Vice President of Finance from December 1994
until June 1997, Director of Corporate Finance from November 1994 to December
1994, and Chief Financial Officer of Europe from May 1993 to November 1994.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the sections captioned
"Quarterly Financial Information" and "Supplemental Financial Information"
appearing in our 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such information is filed
as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" appearing in our 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders. Such information is filed as part of Exhibit 13.1
herewith and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" appearing in our 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such
information is filed as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" appearing in our 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such
information is filed as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the consolidated
financial statements and the sections captioned "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements," "Report of Independent Accountants," and "Quarterly
Financial Information" appearing in our 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
Such information is filed as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10: DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information with respect to our directors may be found in the section
captioned "Election of Directors" appearing in our 1999 Proxy Statement. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference. Information with
 

 
respect to our Executive Officers may be found under the section captioned
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
 
ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the sections captioned
"Director Compensation" and "Compensation of Executive Officers" appearing in
our 1999 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Principal Stockholders" appearing in our 1999 Proxy Statement. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  Information with respect to this item may be found under the headings
"Certain Business Relationships" and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation" in the section captioned "Compensation of Executive
Officers" appearing in our 1999 Proxy Statement. Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) Documents Filed as Part of Form 10-K
 
  1. Financial Statements
 
    --Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 1997 and 1998*
    --Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended September 30,
      1996, 1997, and 1998*
    --Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September
      30, 1996, 1997, and 1998*
    --Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
      September 30, 1996, 1997, and 1998*
    --Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements*
    --Reports of Independent Accountants for the years ended September 30,
      1996**, 1997, and 1998*.
 
  2. Financial Statement Schedules
 
    --Reports of Independent Accountants for the years ended September 30,
      1996**, 1997, and 1998
    --Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
    --Schedules other than the one listed above have been omitted since they
      are either not required, not applicable, or the information is
      otherwise included.
 
  3. Exhibits
 
    --As part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file and
      incorporate by reference the Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index
      immediately preceding such Exhibits.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
  None.
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
    As part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file the Exhibits
    listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such Exhibits.
 
(d) Financial Statement Schedules
 
    As part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file the financial
    statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)2 above.
- --------
 * Referenced information is contained in our 1998 Annual Report to
   Stockholders, filed as part of Exhibit 13.1 herewith and incorporated
   herein by reference.
** Report of Arthur Andersen LLP for Computervision Corporation for the year
   ended December 31, 1996 is filed herewith.
 
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED ON THE 28TH DAY OF
DECEMBER, 1998.
 
                                          PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
 
                                                    /s/ Steven C. Walske
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                      STEVEN C. WALSKE
                                                CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                                          OFFICER
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
  We, the undersigned officers and directors of Parametric Technology
Corporation, hereby severally constitute Edwin J. Gillis and David R.
Friedman, Esq., and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with
full power to them, and each of them singly, to sign for us and in our names
in the capacities indicated below any and all subsequent amendments to this
report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED BELOW.
 

 
 

 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

- --------
* Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which
  an executive officer or director of PTC participates.
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                       PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
(in thousands)
 

 
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

