10-K405


FORM 10-K405

FORM 10-K405

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:

September 30,


Commission File Number:

0-18059

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Massachusetts

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

04-2866152

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

128 Technology Drive, Waltham, MA 02453

(Address of principal executive offices, including zip
   code)

(781) 398-5000

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities
     registered pursuant to

Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
     registered pursuant to

Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has (i) filed all
   reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
   period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (ii) has
   been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES

x

NO

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
   Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
   contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
   10-K, or any amendment to this Form 10-K. YES

x

NO

¨

The aggregate market value of our voting stock held by non-affiliates
   was approximately $5,134,659,216 on October 29, 1999 based on the last
   reported sale price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market on that
   day. There were 271,068,732 shares of our common stock outstanding on that
   day.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement in connection with the
   Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held February 10, 2000 (2000 Proxy
   Statement) are incorporated by reference into Part III.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

ANNUAL REPORT ON

FORM 10-

K

FOR
   FISCAL YEAR 1999


Page

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
       statements that describe our anticipated financial results and growth
       based on our plans and assumptions. Important information about the
       basis for these plans and assumptions and certain factors that may cause
       our actual results to differ materially from these statements is
       discussed in this report and contained in "Management's Discussion
       and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning
       on page 7 below.

PART I

ITEM 1:    Business

Introduction

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC), founded in 1985 and
       headquartered in Waltham, MA, develops, markets and supports
       collaborative product commerce (CPC) and flexible engineering solutions
       that help companies shape innovation and achieve sustained competitive
       advantage. These solutions leverage our leadership in providing software
       that streamlines engineering processes, improves product quality,
       optimizes product information management and reduces cost and
       time-to-market cycles. Our CPC and flexible engineering software
       solutions are complemented by the strength and experience of our
       professional services organization, which provides training, consulting,
       implementation and support to customers worldwide.

CPC solutions include software and services that use Internet
       technologies to permit individuals using different computer-based tools
       in different locations with different roles in the commercialization of
       a product to collaboratively develop, build and manage products
       throughout their entire lifecycle. CPC subsumes many smaller, previously
       isolated markets that address various phases of the product lifecycle,
       such as product data management (PDM), component and supplier management
       (CSM), visualization and digital mockup, computer-aided design,
       manufacturing and engineering (CAD/CAM/CAE), enterprise application
       integration (EAI), program and project management, manufacturing
       planning and maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO).

Historically, our core business focus has been to provide
       mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE solutions to customers through our flagship
       Pro/ENGINEER® design software, and we remain committed to providing
       our customers with industry-leading flexible engineering solutions based
       on this software. We believe, however, that there is growing demand for
       CPC solutions from manufacturers who, in order to stay competitive, must
       deliver more custom-tailored goods faster and at lower prices while
       relying more than ever before on geographically dispersed and dynamic
       supply chains. In order to pursue this opportunity, we have expanded our
       focus to encompass CPC solutions offered by our Web-based Windchill®
       information management software. This expanded focus allows us to
       increase the business impact our customers derive from our flexible
       engineering solutions and provides our customers with the additional
       tools they need to elevate their products into enterprise assets and to
       leverage these assets into new business opportunities.

Products and Services

Our Windchill Factor! e-Series™ is a comprehensive set of
       business software solutions for CPC. Built around Windchill's federated,
       Web-based architecture, the Windchill Factor! e-Series enables
       manufacturers to leverage the Internet in their product development and
       delivery process from customer driven engineer-to-order through
       development, manufacturing and retirement, allowing manufacturers to
       create innovative new products, deliver those products to market faster
       and manage the complexities of an evolving supply chain. The Windchill
       Factor! e-Series currently includes the:

Ÿ

Collaboration Factor!™

which provides an
         environment where businesses can share valuable product and process
         information, regardless of where that information resides or in what
         format it is.

Ÿ

Product
         Planning Factor!™

which enables businesses to meet the
         increasing demand for custom-tailored products by providing the means
         to define flexible engineered-to-order products, supply
         customer-specific portals and easily identify existing variation for
         reuse.

Ÿ

Engineering Factor!™

which optimizes the product
         innovation and design environment to reduce concept-to-design cycle
         times and improve team collaboration by linking directly with the
         engineering team using CAD/CAM and PDM tools.

Ÿ

Sourcing
         Factor!™

which gives manufacturers the ability to reduce
         global procurement and product development costs by standardizing and
         consolidating part and supplier information using our InPart™
         component and supplier management technology.

Ÿ

Product
         Management Factor!™

which offers a complete set of enterprise
         scalable PDM functionality to promote concurrent engineering and to
         create a single source of product information available to all
         functional organizations, so that they receive the information they
         need when they need it.

Ÿ

Manufacturing Planning Factor!™

which integrates a
         company's product development and design with its manufacturing
         processes by creating and maintaining detailed process plans and
         executing production analysis and process simulation. This solution
         allows companies to increase information capture and reuse, optimize
         manufacturing processes and share this knowledge across the
         enterprise.

Ÿ

Production
         Factor!™

which integrates Windchill with market-leading
         enterprise resource planning systems allowing the exchange of part
         master, bill of material and engineering change information between
         Windchill and those systems.

Ÿ

Customization Factor!™

which lets manufacturers
         rapidly create and deploy customized Windchill lifecycle applications
         allowing them to leverage their own internal processes and practices
         into a competitive advantage.

Our family of mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE software solutions, the PTC

i

-Series™ , encompasses a broad spectrum of engineering
       disciplines essential to the development of virtually all manufactured
       products, ranging from consumer products to jet aircraft. Manufacturers
       compete on the basis of cost, time to market and product performance
       criteria, which are significantly affected by the quality and length of
       the product development process. The PTC

i

-Series offers
       high-performance, fully integrated solutions available on all leading
       hardware platforms, including Windows® native solutions, that enable
       end-users to reduce their time to market and manufacturing costs for
       their products and to improve product quality by easily evaluating
       multiple design alternatives and sharing data with bi-directional
       associativity. The PTC

i

-Series includes:

Ÿ

Pro/ENGINEER

—our cornerstone mechanical design
         automation suite for 3D solid modeling with next generation behavioral
         modeling technology. Behavioral modeling is a knowledge management
         capability that provides a unique method of capturing engineers'
         innovations by generating objective-driven design solutions that then
         may be automatically optimized and re-used on subsequent designs,
         enabling companies to create more innovative, differentiated and
         functional products more quickly and easily than ever
         before.

Ÿ

Pro/MECHANICA®

—our functional simulation
         software which allows users to evaluate and optimize the mechanical
         performance of product designs in real-world situations, reducing the
         need for expensive physical prototypes and enhancing overall product
         quality.

Ÿ

Pro/DESKTOP
         ™

—our entry-level desktop modeling tool offering low
         cost, easy to use feature-based modeling, conceptual design and
         drafting that, when integrated with Pro/ENGINEER, provides a
         completely scalable, interoperable suite of associative design
         solutions that meet the needs of users throughout the product
         development continuum.

Ÿ

DIVISION

™

—our suite of visualization
         solutions ranging from readily deployable 2D and 3D viewing and
         redlining, to digital virtual mockup, behavior simulation and
         total-body virtual reality immersion.

Ÿ

ICEM Surf
         ™ and CDRS™

—our advanced, interactive surfacing and
         styling tools. ICEM Surf is a premier Class A surface modeling product
         used in the automotive industry by nearly all major manufacturers for
         modeling high-quality, Class A surfaces as well as in the industrial
         design, tool
       design and consumer product markets. CDRS is a complete set of
         integrated tools for quickly creating realistic images with free-form
         surfaces that can be used throughout the product design cycle to
         evaluate, explore and communicate ideas to management and
         clients.

Ÿ

InPart
         ™

—our Internet-based library of CAD parts containing 2D
         & 3D geometry, technical specifications and component selection
         software that allows mechanical engineers to download nearly 1 million
         certified part designs via the Internet, saving valuable time and
         expense.

Ÿ

CADDS®5

i

—our 3D mechanical design
         software acquired in the Computervision merger that offers
         production-proven product development tools spanning concept, design,
         analysis, drafting and manufacturing and is relied upon by many of the
         world's largest discrete manufacturing companies for the design and
         engineering of airplanes, ships and automobiles.

Ÿ

Pro/NC

—PTC's manufacturing suite offering feature-based computer-aided
         manufacturing tools that significantly reduce the time for generating
         tooling over traditional approaches.

The PTC

i

-Series solutions benefit from the unique level
       of interoperability provided by our Associative Topology Bus (ATB)
       technology which allows for the exchange of data between various CAD
       tools without the loss of any design geometry. When changes occur, the
       ATB propagates those changes through the other PTC

i

-Series
       members, automatically updating affected deliverables, such as drawings
       and tooling.

Our CPC and flexible engineering software solutions are enhanced
       by our professional services organization (PSO) which is committed to
       providing the expertise needed to meet the consulting, education and
       technical support requirements of every type of company and user—in
       nine major support centers and more than 70 educational facilities
       worldwide. Our PSO, which has been one of the fastest growing areas of
       our business, focuses on:

Ÿ

Consulting
         Services

designed to transform a company's business process into a
         competitive advantage by evaluating and recommending the tools and
         practices needed to create more productive engineering and information
         management environments, including long-range planning, process
         improvement, system implementation and product program
         strategies.

Ÿ

Education
         Services

offering expert, comprehensive and efficient training
         programs for our entire product line tailored to the needs of each
         student and combining hands-on and classroom training.

Ÿ

Technical
         Support Services

providing fast, accurate answers to software and
         product development questions through a variety of resources which are
         available worldwide.

Product Development

In order to be competitive in the CPC and flexible engineering
       marketplace, we must continually provide our customers with new software
       and service solutions. As a result we have increased our spending on
       research and development, and we are constantly looking for
       opportunities to acquire new technologies suited to our customers'
       needs.

Our ability to develop new mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE products
       rapidly is facilitated by the modular structure of our software code,
       which enables functional capabilities used in existing products to be
       accessed and utilized by new software modules, thereby reducing the
       amount of new code required to develop additional products. The major
       benefit of this approach is rapid development of new functionality. Our
       Windchill products expand the breadth of our offerings into CPC. This
       developing industry is characterized by new technologies, including
       Internet-centric, Java-based, object-oriented software. The Windchill
       products depend upon these new technologies as well as certain licensed
       third-party technologies.

We work closely with our customers to define improvements and
       enhancements to be integrated into our products. Using this approach,
       customers become involved in the product design process to validate
       feasibility and to influence functionality early in the product's
       life-cycle. We promoted various early adopter and pilot
     programs for our Windchill software that allowed us to focus our
       development efforts on addressing our customers' most pressing needs. In
       addition, we recently launched our new Enterprise Software Partners
       (ESP) program as the successor to our Cooperative Software Program
       (CSP). The ESP program is designed to provide partners with access to
       the Windchill Factor! e-Series and the PTC

i

-Series and provides
       the mechanism and environment to facilitate the integration of
       complementary products with our product lines. Through our open software
       toolkit, ESP members can build tightly integrated solutions that satisfy
       the various requirements of our customers.

Our research and development expenses were $93.2 million in 1997,
       $93.2 million in 1998 and $124.1 in 1999.

Acquisitions

In fiscal 1999, we made three important acquisitions that
       enhanced our flexible engineering and CPC product offerings.

First, in October 1998, we acquired InPart Design, Inc., a
       privately held company located in Saratoga, CA. InPart provides a
       comprehensive library of standard mechanical parts over the Internet
       that help manufacturers improve product development cycles and reduce
       component expenses. In addition to this and related CSM technology,
       InPart brought with it a vision regarding the future of Web-based
       enterprise applications that mirrored our own, and provided us an
       opportunity to strengthen our development and technical expertise in
       this area.

Second, in March 1999, we acquired Division Group plc, a publicly
       held developer of enterprise product data visualization, simulation and
       integration tools, with headquarters in Bristol, UK and San Diego, CA.
       Division's Web-centric visualization technology includes enterprise
       viewing tools that allow users in a company to view product data
       regardless of where it was created or where it resides and high-end
       virtual mockup and simulation tools for engineers, including flythrough
       and reality simulation.

Third, in March 1999, we purchased auxilium inc., a privately
       held developer of Web-based software tools for the integration of legacy
       systems, databases and applications located in Mendota Heights, MN. The
       core auxilium technology is Info*Engine®, an EAI application
       designed to facilitate interoperability between PDM and enterprise
       resource planning (ERP) applications, client-server data bases and
       legacy information systems, providing connectivity between engineering,
       planning, manufacturing, purchasing, suppliers and
       customers.

Sales and Marketing

We derived most of our revenue from products distributed directly
       by our sales force to our end-user customers with the remainder offered
       through third-party distributors. In the future, certain of our products
       will be available over the Internet. No single customer accounted for
       more than 10% of our revenue in any of the last three fiscal
       years.

In 1999, we implemented a worldwide reorganization of our sales
       and professional services organizations. This initiative was designed to
       refocus our sales and services organizations on larger accounts and
       required a shift from geography-based, product specific sales and
       services to named-account, solution-oriented sales and services. Because
       enterprise level, solution-oriented sales and service targets a
       different audience within our manufacturing customers and requires a
       different set of sales skills, the reorganization has required
       significant personnel changes, and is still in the process of
       completion. As part of our reorganization, we signed a multi-year
       agreement with Rand A Technology Corporation (Rand) to become the master
       distributor of our core mechanical design products to small businesses.
       This agreement gives Rand the rights to distribute certain products and
       their related maintenance services to the small business segment
       throughout North America and Europe.

Information about our foreign and domestic operations and export
       sales, and the risks thereof, may be found in Note M to the consolidated
       financial statements and the section entitled "Management's Discussion
       and Analysis of Financial Condition     and Results of Operations"
       beginning on page 7 below.

Competition

CPC is a relatively new industry, and we are a relatively new
       entrant. There are a number of companies already offering solutions that
       address specific functional areas within CPC such as: Agile Software
       Corp., Dassault Systemes, Inso Corporation, Matrix One and Structural
       Dynamics Research Corporation for PDM solutions; Aspect Development for
       part sourcing solutions; Vitria Technology, Inc. for enterprise
       application integration; and Dassault Systemes and Engineering
       Animation, Inc. for visualization and mock-up solutions. We also face
       competition from companies that are developing these solutions in-house.
       In addition, larger, more well known enterprise-solution companies with
       established customer bases may enter the CPC market and offer more
       complete solutions. There are also an increasing number of competitive
       mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE products. In this area, we compete most directly
       with products developed by Dassault Systems and marketed by IBM and
       products developed by Unigraphics and marketed by EDS and Structural
       Dynamics Research Corporation.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and our other trademarks, including our
       company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our
       intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights,
       trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret
       protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability
       contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures,
       there can be no assurance that the laws of all relevant jurisdictions
       will afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual
       property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation
       regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights.
       While we have not, to date, had any significant claims of this type
       asserted against us, there can be no assurance that someone will not
       assert such claims against us with respect to existing or future
       products or other intellectual property or that, if asserted, we would
       prevail in such claims. In the event a lawsuit of this type is filed, it
       could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our
       technical and management personnel, whether or not we ultimately
       prevail.

We believe that, due to the rapid pace of innovation within our
       industry, factors such as the technological and creative skills of our
       personnel are as important to establishing and maintaining a technology
       leadership position within the industry as are the various legal
       protections surrounding our technology. We believe that our products,
       technology and trademarks do not infringe any existing proprietary
       rights of others, although there can be no assurance that third parties
       will not assert infringement claims in the future.

Parametric Technology Corporation, Computervision, Pro/ENGINEER,
       Pro/MECHANICA, Windchill, CADDS, InPart and Info*Engine are registered
       trademarks of PTC or our subsidiaries in the United States and/or other
       countries. Parametric Technology, PTC, the PTC logo and all product
       names in the PTC product family are trademarks of PTC or our
       subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after acceptance of
       a customer purchase order and execution of a software license agreement.
       Accordingly, we do not believe that our backlog at any particular point
       in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 1999, we had 4,998 employees, including 1,980
       in sales, marketing and support activities; 1,427 in customer support,
       training and consulting; 476 in general and administration; and 1,115 in
       product development. Of these employees,

2,410 were located
       throughout the United States and 2,588 were located in foreign
       countries.

ITEM 2:    Properties

Our executive offices are currently located in approximately
       302,000 square feet of leased office space in Waltham, MA. We also lease
       217 offices in the United States and internationally through our foreign
       subsidiaries, predominately as sales and/or support offices and for
       development work. Of our total of approximately 2,081,000 square feet of
       leased facilities, approximately 1,376,000 is located in the U.S. and
       705,000 is located outside the U.S. Several of our leased facilities
       were acquired in our merger with Computervision, including 686,000
       square feet of office space in Bedford, MA. Approximately 616,000 square
       feet is not used for our current operations. As described in Notes B and
       H to the consolidated financial statements, these facilities have been
       included in our restructuring provisions. We have engaged in a
       subleasing and early lease termination initiative to employ alternate
       uses for these facilities.

In December 1999, we sold land and certain improvements under
       construction and entered into a lease covering approximately 381,000
       square feet of office space in the Boston area that will allow us to
       consolidate and replace our Waltham operations. Occupancy and rent
       should begin in December 2000 and expire in December 2012, subject to
       completion of construction. We believe that our facilities are adequate
       for our present needs, but will continue to evaluate the need for
       additional space, as the requirements of the business
       change.

ITEM 3:    Legal Proceedings

Certain class action lawsuits were filed by shareholders in the
       fourth quarter of 1998 against us and certain of our current and former
       officers and directors in the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts
       claiming violations of the federal securities laws based on alleged
       misrepresentations regarding our anticipated revenue and earnings for
       the third quarter of 1998. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits joined
       together to file a consolidated and amended complaint in the second
       quarter of 1999. The consolidated and amended complaint seeks
       unspecified damages. We believe the claims made in the consolidated and
       amended complaint are without merit, and we intend to defend them
       vigorously. In the third quarter of 1999 we filed a motion to dismiss
       the consolidated and amended complaint. We cannot predict the outcome of
       this motion or the ultimate resolution of this action at this time, and
       there can be no assurance that the litigation will not have a material
       adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
       operations.

We are also subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
       arise in the ordinary course of business. We currently believe that
       resolving these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our
       financial condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4:    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
       Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
       the last quarter of fiscal 1999.

PART II

ITEM 5:    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
       Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section
       captioned "Quarterly Financial Information" on page F-24
       below.

On September 30, 1999, our common stock was held by 9,184
       shareholders of record. We have not paid cash dividends on our common
       stock and have historically retained earnings for use in our business.
       We intend to review our policy with respect to the payment of dividends
       from time to time; however, there can be no assurance that any dividends
       will be paid in the future.

As of September 30, 1999, we issued an additional 600,000 shares
       of our common stock to stockholders of InPart Design, Inc. pursuant to
       our acquisition agreement with them. This transaction was exempt from
       registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933
       because it did not involve a public offering.

ITEM 6:    Selected Financial Data

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section
       captioned "Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page F-24
       below.

ITEM 7:    Management's Discussion and Analysis of
       Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction

In January 1998, we completed a merger with Computervision
       Corporation that has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.
       Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated financial statements to
       include the accounts and operations of Computervision for all periods
       prior to the merger presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless
       otherwise indicated, this discussion and the accompanying consolidated
       financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements
       (Notes) reflect that restatement. In July 1997, Computervision sold its
       hardware support services business unit which had generated other
       services revenue and costs in 1997. Because of the sale, the results
       from this business have been excluded from the following discussion for
       all years presented. See Notes B and C. Unless otherwise indicated, all
       references to a year reflect our fiscal year that ends on September
       30.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
       statements that describe our anticipated financial results and growth
       based on our plans and assumptions. Important information about the
       basis for these plans and assumptions and certain factors that may cause
       our actual results to differ materially from these statements is
       contained below and in "Important Factors That May Affect Future
       Results" beginning on page 16.

Business Overview

Historically, our core business focus has been to provide
       mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE solutions to customers through our flagship
       Pro/ENGINEER® design software, and while we remain committed to
       providing our customers with industry leading flexible engineering
       solutions based on this software, we believe that there is growing
       demand for collaborative product commerce (CPC) solutions from
       manufacturers who, in order to stay competitive, must deliver more
       custom-tailored goods faster and at lower prices while relying more than
       ever before on geographically dispersed and dynamic supply chains. CPC
       solutions include software and services that use Internet technologies
       to permit individuals—no matter what role they have in the
       commercialization of a product, no matter what computer-based tools they
       use, no matter where they are located geographically or in the supply
       chain—to collaboratively develop, build and manage products
       throughout their entire lifecycle. In order to pursue this opportunity,
       we expanded our focus in 1999 to encompass the complete CPC solution
       offered by our Web-based Windchill® information management software.
       This expanded focus going forward allows us to increase the business
       impact our customers derive from our flexible engineering solutions and
       provides our customers with the additional tools they need to elevate
       their products into enterprise assets and to leverage these assets into
       new business opportunities.

Results of Operations

The following is an overview of our results of operations for the
       last three years:

Ÿ

Total revenue
         was $979.8 million for 1997, $1,018.0 million for 1998 and $1,057.6
         million for 1999.

Ÿ

Our
         year-to-year revenue growth rate was 4% in 1998 and 1999.

Ÿ

Income before
         extraordinary loss in 1998 increased $18.1 million, or 21%, between
         1997 and 1998, and $13.6 million, or 13%, between 1998 and
         1999.

Ÿ

Pro forma net
         income, which excludes the amortization of goodwill and intangible
         assets, acquisition and nonrecurring charges and the extraordinary
         loss, was $146.2 million in 1997, $199.4 million in 1998 and $184.4
         million in 1999.

The following table shows certain consolidated financial data as
       a percentage of our total revenue for the last three years. The results
       of the Computervision other services business unit have been omitted
       from the table.

Revenue

We derived our revenue primarily from software and services
       related to the mechanical segment of the CAD/CAM/CAE industry. In 1999,
       8% of our revenue was derived from software and services related to our
       Windchill CPC solution.

License revenue decreased 6% in 1998 and 8% in 1999. Several
       factors, including those described below, contributed to these
       decreases. In August 1998 we repackaged and repriced our core
       Pro/ENGINEER design software. The average selling price of this software
       decreased by 7% in 1998 and by 16% in 1999 due primarily to this
       repricing and repackaging. Product unit sales were flat in 1998 and up
       1% in 1999; however, the increase in unit sales was not sufficient to
       offset the impact of the decrease in the average price of our software.
       In addition, we reorganized our sales force during 1999 from a
       territorial focus to a named-account focus in order to move to a more
       strategic, solutions-oriented selling approach. In the near-term, the
       disruption in our sales force caused by the reorganization resulted in
       lower sales capacity and lower productivity in 1999 compared to 1998 and
       1997. Also, in October 1998, Rand A Technology Corporation became our
       exclusive distributor to small businesses in the U.S. and Europe, and,
       as described below, its performance was impacted by the transition
       required by this new relationship. Moreover, in 1998, we experienced
       weaker than anticipated results in the Asia/Pacific region. Additional
       factors affecting our revenues and operating results are listed under
       "Important Factors That May Affect Future     Results"
       below.

We licensed over 90% of our products directly to end-user
       customers in each of the last three fiscal years. The balance was
       licensed through third-party distributors. The percentage of our
       CAD/CAM/CAE products that we license through third-party distributors
       may increase in the future.

Our service revenue is derived from the sale of software
       maintenance contracts and the performance of training and consulting
       services. Service revenue, which has a lower gross profit margin than
       license revenue, accounted for 34% of total revenue in 1997, and
       increased to 40% in 1998 and 47% in 1999. Service revenue increased 22%
       in 1998 and 21% in 1999. This increase is the result of growth in our
       installed customer base and increased training and consulting services
       performed for these customers offset by a decline in the Computervision
       installed base. We expect service revenue to continue to increase in
       absolute dollars in 2000.

We derived 57%, 56% and 56% of our total revenue from sales to
       international customers in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively. Direct
       export sales were $148.5 million, $115.2 million and $166.2 million in
       1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

[Chart Showing Revenue By Geography (in
       millions)]

Over the past year, we implemented several strategic initiatives
       designed to provide a foundation for future growth. These initiatives
       included the repricing and repackaging of our Pro/ENGINEER product line
       that we undertook in the fourth quarter of 1998; the reorganization of
       our sales force during 1999 as part of our transition to a more
       strategic, solutions-oriented approach to sales and service; and our
       investment in the start up of our Windchill CPC solutions. As the
       transformation of our sales force continues to take shape and our
       Windchill CPC solutions continue to gain market acceptance, we expect to
       see future growth. Given the transitional nature of these initiatives,
       however, the timing and magnitude of that growth—and therefore
       near-term results—remain uncertain. In addition, these initiatives,
       especially our emphasis on larger, more enterprise-wide solutions, have
       resulted in longer and less predictable sales cycles and, at least in
       the short term, increased our dependence on consummating larger
       transactions in general. Our revenue growth and the level of our total
       revenue will be affected by the success of this approach and these
       initiatives, together with the factors referred to below under
       "Important Factors That May Affect Future     Results."

In the first quarter of 1999, as part of our effort to focus our
       sales force on larger accounts, we appointed Rand as our exclusive
       distributor of mechanical design products to small businesses (i.e.,
       those with revenues of $10 million and below). Rand is in the process of
       developing its marketing, sales and distribution networks and has faced
       increased competition from low-priced products. In the third quarter of
       1999, we expanded the size of Rand's sales opportunities by appointing
       it as a non-exclusive distributor for a broader segment of small
       businesses in the U.S. and Germany. Providing this broader base of
       business opportunity should assist Rand in further developing its
       network and growing sales of our products. Our results could be
       adversely affected if Rand is unable to achieve certain sales levels or
       if it is unable to make existing and future minimum quarterly revenue
       payments.

Costs and
         Expenses

All cost and expense categories in 1997, 1998 and 1999 were
       impacted by the acquisition and nonrecurring charges taken. See Note B.
       Our operating expenses are based on anticipated future revenue and are
       relatively fixed for the short term. We are incurring expenses that
       would support revenues in excess of current levels in order to implement
       our strategic initiatives, particularly as they relate to our Windchill
       CPC solutions. Although these expense levels have adversely affected net
       income, we continue to believe that these initiatives will provide a
       foundation for future growth.

Cost of
         License Revenue

Our cost of license revenue consists of costs associated with
       reproducing and distributing software and documentation and the payment
       of royalties. Cost of license revenue as a percent of license revenue
       has been 3% for each of the last three years.

Cost of
         Service Revenue

Our cost of service revenue includes costs associated with
       training and consulting personnel, such as salaries and related costs
       and travel, and costs related to software maintenance, including costs
       incurred for customer support personnel and the release of maintenance
       updates. The increase in our cost of service revenue resulted primarily
       from growth in the staffing necessary to generate increased worldwide
       service revenue and to provide ongoing high-quality customer support to
       our growing installed base. Cost of service revenue as a percent of
       service revenue has been 39%, 34% and 39% in 1997, 1998 and 1999,
       respectively. This increase reflects our investment in the staffing
       necessary to support our new product offerings, principally our
       Windchill CPC solutions.

Sales and
         Marketing

Our sales and marketing expenses primarily include salaries and
       benefits, sales commissions, travel and facility costs. These costs
       increased 2% in 1998 and 3% in 1999 primarily due to the growth of the
       sales force related to our Windchill CPC solutions, partially offset by
       reductions associated with the sales force reorganizations. Total sales
       and marketing employees were 2,395 in 1997, 2,440 in 1998 and 1,980 in
       1999. The higher costs in 1999 are due to the higher average cost per
       sales employee. International sales and marketing expenses represented
       62% in 1997, 59% in 1998 and 57% in 1999 of total sales and marketing
       expenses.

Research
         and Development

Our research and development expenses consist principally of
       salaries and benefits, expenses associated with product translations,
       costs of computer equipment used in software development and facility
       expenses. Compared to the prior years, research and development expenses
       were flat in 1998 and increased 33% in 1999. The flat level of spending
       in 1998 compared to 1997 is primarily attributable to the impact of
       workforce reductions associated with the Computervision merger offset by
       our continued investment in research and development, particularly in
       relation to our Windchill CPC solutions. The increase in 1999 compared
       to 1998 is primarily attributable to our continued investment in
       Windchill CPC solutions, including our InPart, Division and auxilium
       acquisitions in 1999. We expect our investment in research and
       development to increase in absolute dollars in 2000.

General
         and Administrative

Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of our
       corporate, finance, information technology, human resources and
       administrative functions. These costs decreased 5% in 1998 and increased
       10% in 1999. The decrease in these expenses in 1998 was principally due
       to the impact of workforce reductions and lower depreciation related to
       fixed asset write-offs associated with our merger with Computervision.
       The increase in 1999 represents our continued investment in information
       technology and the integration of acquired companies.

[Chart Showing Cost and Expenses (in
       millions)]

Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangible
         Assets

These costs represent the amortization of intangible assets
       acquired, including developed technology, goodwill, customer lists,
       assembled work force and trade names. The increased amortization of
       $20.2 million in 1999 compared to 1997 and 1998 resulted from our 1999
       acquisitions.

Acquisition and Nonrecurring Charges

Acquisitions

Computervision.

In January 1998, we
       merged with Computervision Corporation by issuing 11.6 million shares of
       common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of
       Computervision. In connection with the merger, we incurred a
       nonrecurring charge of $76.8 million for merger-related integration,
       consolidation and transaction costs in the second quarter of 1998. The
       charge included $18.1 million of severance and termination benefits
       related to the elimination of approximately 450 positions, $12.7 million
       for the write-off of assets, $8.2 million for transaction costs, $17.4
       million of contract costs associated with revised estimates, $7.2
       million for the closing of leased facilities and $13.2 million of lease
       termination and other costs. For additional information see Note
       B.

ICEM.

In June 1998, we acquired
       ICEM Technologies, a division of Control Data Systems, Inc. for $40.6
       million in cash. Headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany, ICEM provides
       advanced surfacing and reverse engineering software tools used by body
       and styling engineers in the automotive and aerospace industries. The
       acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, we allocated
       the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based
       on our estimates of fair value. The amounts allocated to tangible and
       intangible assets acquired less the liabilities assumed exceeded the
       purchase price by approximately $7.0 million. This excess value over the
       purchase price was allocated to reduce proportionately the values
       assigned to long-term assets and purchased in-process research and
       development (R&D) in determining their
     values. The values assigned included $2.1 million for net assets acquired,
       $28.9 million for purchased in-process R&D, $8.0 million for
       developed technology, $1.6 million for an assembled workforce and $1.0
       million for trade names.

InPart.

In October 1998, we
       purchased InPart Design, Inc., a developer of DesignSuite, a Web-based
       repository of 3D mechanical component data, as well as the developer of
       enterprise software applications focused on Web-based component and
       supplier management, which was founded in 1996. We allocated the
       purchase price of $38.1 million to the assets acquired and liabilities
       assumed based on our estimate of fair value. The values assigned
       included $741,000 for net liabilities assumed, $10.6 million for
       purchased in-process R&D, $4.1 million for developed technology,
       $1.1 million for customer lists, $200,000 for an assembled workforce and
       $300,000 for trade names. The excess purchase price over the amounts
       allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as
       goodwill of $22.5 million.

Division

.    In March 1999, we
       purchased Division Group plc, a developer of enterprise product data
       visualization, simulation and integration tools. We allocated the
       purchase price of $48.1 million to the assets acquired and liabilities
       assumed based on our estimates of fair value. The values assigned
       included $555,000 for net assets acquired, $9.0 million for purchased
       in-process R&D, $3.3 million for developed technology, $2.0 million
       for customer lists, $970,000 for an assembled workforce and $2.5 million
       for trade names. The excess purchase price over the amounts allocated to
       assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill of
       $29.8 million.

auxilium.

In March 1999, we
       purchased auxilium inc., a developer of Web-based software tools for the
       integration of legacy systems, databases and applications, which was
       founded in 1997. We allocated the purchase price of $101.7 million to
       the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimates of
       fair value. The values assigned included $182,000 for net liabilities
       assumed, $18.6 million for purchased in-process R&D, $700,000 for
       developed technology, $5.0 million for customer lists, $630,000 for an
       assembled workforce and $6.0 million for trade names. The excess
       purchase price over the amounts allocated to assets acquired and
       liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill of $70.9
       million.

In the opinion of management, the purchased in-process R&D
       for the acquisitions of ICEM, InPart, Division and auxilium had not yet
       reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use.
       Accordingly, we recorded nonrecurring charges of $28.9 million during
       the third quarter of 1998 related to ICEM, $10.6 million in the first
       quarter of 1999 related to InPart and $27.6 million in the second
       quarter of 1999 related to Division and auxilium. The values assigned to
       purchased in-process R&D were determined by identifying research
       projects for which technological feasibility had not been established.
       The values of the purchased in-process R&D were determined by
       estimating the stage of completion, including consideration of the
       complexity of the work completed, the costs incurred and the projected
       costs to complete, the contribution of any core technology and other
       acquired assets and the projected product introduction dates, estimating
       the resulting net cash flows from the products developed and discounting
       the net cash flows back to their present value. For each acquisition,
       the estimates were based on the following major assumptions:

ICEM

:

Ÿ

Revenue was estimated to grow at a compound rate of 33% over
         the first five years and 14% thereafter.

Ÿ

Cost of
         revenue for the purchased in-process technology, expressed as a
         percentage of revenue, was estimated to decline from 20% to 10%
         through 2006 based on ICEM's average historical cost of revenue and
         reflect future economies of scale.

Ÿ

Selling,
         general and administrative expenses were estimated to be 29% of
         revenue for all periods, consistent with ICEM's historical
         average.

InPart:

Ÿ

Revenue was
         estimated to begin late in 1999 and to grow based on industry growth
         rates and Inpart's specific product offerings.

Ÿ

Cost of
         revenue for the purchased in-process technology, expressed as a
         percentage of revenue, was estimated to decline from 22% to 11% based
         on InPart's average historical cost of revenue and reflect future
         economies of scale.

Ÿ

Selling,
         general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenue, were
         estimated to be 99% in 1999, reflecting an initial investment in the
         marketing of the in-process technology and declining to 40%
         thereafter. These amounts were based on industry average historical
         selling, general and administrative costs.

Division

:

Ÿ

Revenue was
         based on industry growth rates and Division's specific product
         offerings.

Ÿ

Cost of
         revenue for the purchased in-process technology, expressed as a
         percentage of revenue, was estimated to be 15% based on Division's
         average historical cost of revenue.

Ÿ

Selling,
         general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenue, were
         estimated to be 47% in 1999, reflecting an initial investment in the
         marketing of the in-process technology and declining to 41%
         thereafter. These amounts were based on industry average historical
         selling, general and administrative costs.

auxilium

:

Ÿ

Revenue was
         based on industry growth rates and auxilium's specific product
         offerings.

Ÿ

Cost of
         revenue for the purchased in-process technology, expressed as a
         percentage of revenue, was estimated to be between 32% and 26% based
         on auxilium's average historical cost of revenue.

Ÿ

Selling,
         general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of revenue, were
         estimated to be 53% in 1999, reflecting an initial investment in the
         marketing of the in-process technology and declining to 40%
         thereafter. These amounts were based on industry average historical
         selling, general and administrative costs.

The net cash flows also considered net working capital
       requirements and capital spending needs related to the purchased
       in-process technology. The rates used to discount net cash flows for the
       purchased in-process technology to its present value for the ICEM (24%),
       Inpart (28%), Division (25%) and auxilium (26% to 30%) acquisitions were
       based on the weighted average cost of capital and took into account the
       uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the purchased
       in-process technology for each acquisition. If these projects are not
       successfully developed, future revenue and profitability may be
       adversely affected, and the value of intangible assets acquired may
       become impaired.

Nonrecurring Charges

Computervision

.    Our results for
       1997 include a nonrecurring charge of $45.0 million related to the
       restructuring of the Computervision software business in order to reduce
       costs and improve operating results in future periods by reducing
       personnel by approximately 300 positions and closing certain
       facilities.

Sales Force Reorganizations.

During
       the first quarter of 1999, we reorganized our sales force to provide a
       more focused approach to the unique product and service requirements of
       our customers. In connection with this action, we incurred a
       restructuring charge of $3.2 million for the severance and termination
       benefits of approximately 170 people who had been terminated during the
       first quarter of 1999 in accordance with management's plans. During the
       second quarter of 1999, we incurred a restructuring charge of $5.8
       million primarily for the severance and termination benefits of
       approximately 150 people in connection with the integration of our sales
       and related support groups. All amounts related to terminated employees
       were paid in 1999.

Facility Consolidation and Asset Impairment.

During the second quarter of 1999, we incurred a restructuring
       charge of $1.4 million for the consolidation of certain excess leased
       facilities. Also, in the second quarter we
     recorded an impairment loss of $4.7 million on certain intangible assets
       related to our industrial design (CDRS) activities. Due to recent
       acquisitions and the development of new technology, the carrying value
       of these assets was impaired.

Interest
         Expense

Our interest expense in 1997 and 1998 related primarily to debt
       incurred by Computervision prior to the merger that we paid off in the
       second quarter of 1998. See Note G.

Interest
         Income

Interest income relates to the earnings on the investment of our
       excess cash balance in various financial instruments. The 1998 increase
       in interest income of 5% resulted from higher average annual yields
       compared to 1997. The 41% decrease in interest income in 1999 compared
       to 1998 resulted from lower average annual yields and lower average cash
       balances of approximately $140 million.

Other
         Expense

A large portion of our revenue and expenses is transacted in
       foreign currencies. In order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
       foreign exchange rates, from time to time we engage in hedging
       transactions involving the use of foreign exchange forward contracts and
       foreign exchange option contracts in the primary European and Asian
       currencies. Our other expense includes the costs of the hedging
       contracts, the gain or loss from the translation of results for
       subsidiaries for which the U.S. dollar is the functional currency and
       other charges incurred in connection with financing customer contracts.
       See Note A.

Income
         Taxes

Our effective income tax rate was 57% in 1997, 48% in 1998 and
       34% in 1999. The higher effective tax rate in 1997 and 1998 over the
       statutory federal tax rate (35%) was due primarily to the
       non-deductibility of certain expenses included in the acquisition and
       nonrecurring charges in 1998 as well as the net operating losses of
       Computervision incurred principally in 1997 which could not be
       benefited. The lower effective tax rate in 1999 resulted primarily from
       the use of Computervision net operating losses, partially offset by the
       non-deductibility of certain acquisition-related charges. Excluding
       non-benefited

net operating losses and acquisition and
       nonrecurring charges, our tax rate was 35% in 1997, 34% in 1998 and 27%
       in 1999. See Note F.

Extraordinary Loss

In connection with the Computervision merger, we assumed a
       revolving note payable and long-term debt obligations. During the second
       quarter of 1998, we paid $275.7 million for settlement of the
       outstanding note, debt obligations, accrued interest and related fees,
       and we incurred an extraordinary after-tax loss of $19.0 million related
       to the write-off of deferred financing costs and other prepayment costs
       associated with this debt. See Note G.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our operating activities, the proceeds from our issuance of stock
       under stock plans and existing cash and investments provided sufficient
       resources to fund our employee base, capital asset needs, stock
       repurchases, acquisitions and financing needs, in all years
       presented.

As of September 30, 1999, cash and investments totaled $353.9
       million, down from $426.2 million at September 30, 1998. The primary
       reasons for the decrease in cash and investments during 1999 were the
       repurchase of $90.0 million of common stock, the $72.9 million of
       payments for two of the acquisitions during the year and the $35.2
       million of payments to acquire property and equipment partially offset
       by the net cash provided by operating activities. Our investment
       portfolio is diversified among security types, industries and individual
       issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The
       portfolio is primarily invested in short-term securities to minimize
       interest rate risk and to facilitate rapid deployment in the event of
       immediate cash needs.

Cash generated from operating activities was, $195.8 million in
       1997, $181.9 million in 1998 and $150.8 million in 1999, including cash
       expenditures for nonrecurring charges of $38.9 million in 1997, $62.3
       million in 1998 and $34.2 million in 1999.

In 1997, 1998 and 1999, we acquired $36.2 million, $35.8 million
       and $35.2 million, respectively, of capital equipment consisting
       principally of computer equipment, software and office equipment. We
       spent $5.0 million in 1997, $40.6 million in 1998 and $72.9 million in
       1999 to acquire businesses. These expenditures were partially offset by
       $30.1 million received from the sale of a Computervision business unit
       in June 1997. In the third quarter of 1999 we purchased ModelCHECK, a
       software productivity tool for the Pro/ENGINEER product line, for $20
       million. In December 1999, we sold land and certain improvements under
       construction for approximately $31 million and entered into a lease
       covering approximately 381,000 square feet of office space in the Boston
       area that will allow us to consolidate and replace our Waltham
       operations. Occupancy and rent should begin in December 2000 and expire
       in December 2012, subject to completion of construction.

We used net cash for financing activities in 1997, 1998 and 1999,
       primarily to repurchase $184.8 million, $50.0 million and $90.0 million,
       respectively, of our stock, and to pay off the Computervision debt in
       1998 of $275.7 million. These expenditures were partially offset by
       proceeds of $66.3 million, $70.4 million and $23.9 million, in 1997,
       1998 and 1999, respectively, from the issuance of our common stock under
       our stock plans.

In May 1994, we announced that our Board of Directors had
       authorized a plan allowing us to repurchase up to 6.0 million shares of
       our common stock. In September 1997, our Board of Directors increased
       that number to 12.0 million. In October 1997, in anticipation of the
       Computervision merger, we suspended repurchases and the Board of
       Directors ultimately rescinded its authorization of the repurchase
       program in November 1997. Under the program, we repurchased a total of
       11.6 million shares at a cost of $260.0 million. In September 1998, our
       Board of Directors authorized a new plan that allows us to repurchase of
       up to 20.0 million shares. Through September 30, 1999, we purchased 11.0
       million shares at a cost of $139.9 million. The repurchased shares will
       be used to issue shares for stock option exercises, employee stock
       purchase plans and potential acquisitions.

We believe that existing cash and short-term investments together
       with cash generated from operations and the issuance of common stock
       under our stock plans will be sufficient to meet our working capital,
       financing and capital expenditure requirements through at least
       2000.

Year 2000 Compliance

Concerns have been widely expressed regarding the inability of
       certain computer programs to properly process certain date information,
       particularly beyond the year 1999. These concerns focus on the impact of
       the "Year 2000 problem" on business operations and the potential costs
       associated with identifying and addressing the problem.

State of Readiness.

We developed a
       Year 2000 readiness plan focusing on: (i) assessing the readiness of our
       product offerings, internal business systems and major vendors and
       suppliers; (ii) addressing known risks; and (iii) planning and budgeting
       for reasonably likely contingencies.

We have completed testing our current product offerings for Year
       2000 compliance, and based on our review we believe that our current
       product offerings are Year 2000-compliant. Some limited testing of newly
       acquired products is ongoing. We conducted only limited testing of
       products that are no longer offered, and thus the Year 2000 compliance
       of such products is generally not known. Many of these untested products
       are previous releases of current offerings. Our customers can upgrade
       many of these products to achieve Year 2000 compliance.

We have also reviewed and upgraded our internal information
       technology and business systems, both domestically and internationally,
       to ensure Year 2000 readiness.

Finally, we have surveyed the Year 2000 readiness of our major
       vendors and suppliers, with a particular focus on assuring the Year 2000
       readiness of our mission critical vendors and suppliers.

Cost of Year 2000 Compliance.

Costs
       incurred in our Year 2000 compliance effort include the allocation of
       personnel to testing our products and systems as well as to upgrading
       internal systems. During 1999, we incurred costs of approximately $4.0
       million on our compliance project. Costs were expensed as incurred. We
       do not at this time foresee a material impact on our business or
       operating results from the Year 2000 problem. We cannot, of course,
       predict the nature or materiality of the impact on our operations or
       operating results of Year 2000 disruption by parties over whom we have
       no control. Furthermore, the purchasing patterns of our customers or
       potential customers may be affected by Year 2000 issues if they must
       expend significant resources to correct their own systems. As a result,
       they may have fewer funds available to purchase our products and
       services.

Risk of Year 2000 Issues and Contingency Plans.

Our worst case Year 2000 scenarios would include: (i)
       undetected errors or uncorrected defects in our current product
       offerings; (ii) corruption of data contained in our internal information
       systems that would inhibit core business functions; and (iii) the
       failure of infrastructure services provided by third parties and
       government agencies (e.g., electricity, phone/fax service,
       internet/email, shipping and banking services, etc.). We have
       contingency plans in all of these areas that include among other things,
       the availability of support personnel to assist with customer support
       issues, manual "work arounds" for internal software failure and
       substitution of systems, if needed.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In accordance with recently issued accounting pronouncements, we
       will be required to comply with certain changes in accounting rules and
       regulations. See Note A.

Important Factors That May Affect Future
       Results

The following are some of the factors that could affect our
       future results. They should be considered in connection with evaluating
       forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
       and otherwise made by us or on our behalf, because these factors could
       cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those
       projected in forward-looking statements.

I.    Operational
       Considerations

Our
         operating results fluctuate within each quarter and from
         quarter-to-quarter making our future revenues and operating results
         difficult to predict

While our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to
       customer, we usually realize a high percentage of our revenue in the
       third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be
       concentrated in the latter half of that month. Our orders early in a
       quarter will not generally occur at a rate which, if sustained
       throughout the quarter, would be sufficient to assure that we will meet
       our revenue targets for any particular quarter. Moreover, our sales
       force reorganizations in 1999 and our shift in business emphasis to a
       more solutions-oriented sales process—undertaken in part to
       increase our average order size—have resulted in longer and more
       unpredictable sales cycles for products and services. Accordingly, our
       quarterly results may be difficult or impossible to predict prior to the
       end of the quarter. Any inability to obtain large orders or orders in
       large volumes or to make shipments or perform services in the period
       immediately preceding the end of any particular quarter may cause the
       results for that quarter to fall short of our revenue targets. In
       addition, our operating expenses are based on expected future revenue
       and are relatively fixed for the short term. As a result, a revenue
       shortfall in any quarter could cause our earnings for that quarter to
       fall below expectations as well. Any failure to meet our quarterly
       revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of
       our stock.

Other factors that may also cause quarter-to-quarter revenue and
       earnings fluctuation, include the following:

Ÿ

our sales
         incentive structure is weighted more heavily toward the end of the
         fiscal year, and the rate of revenue growth for the first quarter
         historically has been lower and more difficult to predict than that
         for the fourth quarter of the immediately preceding fiscal year;
         and

Ÿ

variability
         in the levels of professional service revenues and the mix of our
         license and service revenues.

In addition, the levels of quarterly or annual software or
       service revenue in general, or for particular geographic areas, may not
       be comparable to those achieved in previous periods.

We may not
         be able to implement new initiatives successfully

We have had a history of rapid growth and development as an
       organization. Part of our success has resulted from our ability to
       implement new initiatives. Our future operating results will continue to
       depend upon:

Ÿ

the success of our sales force reorganization initiatives,
         including

-

our shift
         from point sales to solution sales,

-

our shift
         from geography-based to named-account sales,

-

the ability
         of our sales reps to learn and sell our full product line,
         and

-

Rand's
         ability to perform, including building a distributor network and
         competing successfully in the small business segment of the mechanical
         CAD/CAM/CAE arena

Ÿ

our ability
         to anticipate and meet evolving customer requirements in the CPC arena
         and successfully deliver products and services at an enterprise level;
         and

Ÿ

our ability
         to identify and penetrate additional industry segments that represent
         growth opportunities.

We may not
         be successful in integrating recently acquired businesses or
         products

We have increased our product range and customer base in the
       recent past due in part to acquisitions. We may acquire additional
       businesses or product lines in the future. The success of any
       acquisition may be dependent upon our ability to integrate the acquired
       business or products successfully and to retain key personnel and
       customers associated with the acquisition. If we fail to do so, or if
       the costs of or length of time for integration increase significantly,
       it could negatively affect our business.

In addition, acquisitions may result in the allocation of
       purchase price to in-process R&D. The Securities and Exchange
       Commission (SEC) has raised issues regarding the methodologies used and
       allocation of purchase price to in-process R&D and has required some
       companies to adjust or restate prior periods to reduce allocations to
       in-process R&D, thereby increasing intangible assets and future
       amortization expense. While we believe that our in-process R&D
       allocations are appropriate, if the SEC were to require us to change an
       allocation, this would result in a higher amortization expense, which
       would adversely impact our operating results.

We are
         dependent on key personnel whose loss could cause delays in our
         product development and sales efforts

Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly
       skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel. Competition for such
       personnel in the high technology industry is intense. We assume that we
       will continue to be able to attract and retain such personnel. The
       failure to do so, however, could have a material adverse effect on our
       business.

We must
         continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing
         technology, and we may experience delays in developing and debugging
         our software

We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace
       with changes in computer software, hardware and database technology, as
       well as emerging standards in the Internet software industry. Our
       ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to:

Ÿ

enhance our
         current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace
         with technological developments through

-

internal
         research and development,

-

acquisition
         of technology, and

-

strategic
         partnerships;

Ÿ

meet evolving
         customer requirements, especially ease-of-use;

Ÿ

provide
         adequate funding for development efforts; and

Ÿ

license
         appropriate technology from third parties.

Also, as is common in the computer software industry, we may from
       time to time experience delays in our product development and
       "debugging" efforts. Our performance could be hurt by significant delays
       in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products. Among
       other things, such delays could cause us to incorrectly predict the
       fiscal quarter in which we will realize revenue from the shipment of the
       new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity
       to market competing products.

We may be
         unable to price our products competitively or distribute them
         effectively

Our success is tied to our ability to price our products and
       services competitively and to deliver them efficiently, including our
       ability to:

Ÿ

provide
         products with functionality that our customer want at a price they can
         afford;

Ÿ

build
         appropriate direct distribution channels;

Ÿ

utilize the
         Internet for sales; and

Ÿ

build
         appropriate indirect distribution channels through Rand or
         others.

We depend
         on sales from outside the United States that could be adversely
         affected by changes in the international markets

A significant portion of our business comes from outside the
       United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected
       by economic downturns in Europe or the Asia/Pacific region. Another
       consequence of significant international business is that a large
       percentage of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign
       currencies that fluctuate in value. Although we may enter into foreign
       exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts to
       offset a portion of the foreign exchange fluctuations, unanticipated
       events may have a material impact on our results. Other risks associated
       with international business include:

Ÿ

changes in
         regulatory practices and tariffs;

Ÿ

staffing and
         managing foreign operations, including the difficulties in providing
         cost-effective, equity-based compensation to attract skilled
         workers;

Ÿ

longer
         collection cycles in certain areas;

Ÿ

potential
         changes in tax and other laws;

Ÿ

greater
         difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights; and

Ÿ

general
         economic and political conditions.

We may not be able to obtain copyright or patent protection
       for the software products we develop or our other
       trademarks

Our software products and our other trademarks, including our
       company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our
       intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights,
       trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret
       protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability
       contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures,
       there can be no assurance that the laws of all relevant jurisdictions
       will afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual
       property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation
       regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights.
       While we have not, to date, had any significant claims of this type
       asserted against us, there can be no assurance that someone will not
       assert such claims against us with respect to existing or future
       products or other intellectual property or that, if asserted, we would
       prevail in such claims. In the event a lawsuit of this type is filed, it
       could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our
       technical and management personnel, whether or not we ultimately
       prevail.

II.    Mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE-Related
       Considerations

Increasing competition in the mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE
       marketplace may reduce our revenues

There are an increasing number of competitive mechanical
       CAD/CAM/CAE products. Increased competition and market acceptance of
       these products could have a negative effect on our pricing and revenues
       for these products, which could have a material adverse affect on our
       results.

In addition, our CAD/CAM/CAE software is capable of performing on
       a variety of platforms. Several of our competitors focus on single
       platform applications, particularly Windows-based platforms. There can
       be no assurance that we will have a competitive advantage with multiple
       platform applications.

We continue to enhance our existing products by releasing
       updates. Our competitive position and operating results could suffer
       if:

Ÿ

we fail to
         anticipate or to respond adequately to customer requirements or to
         technological developments, particularly those of our
         competitors;

Ÿ

we delay the
         development, production, testing, marketing or availability of new or
         enhanced products or services; or

Ÿ

customers
         fail to accept such products or services.

Our assumptions about growth in the CAD/CAM/CAE industry may
       be incorrect

Our revenue projections make certain assumptions about growth in
       the mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE industry. There could be a material adverse
       affect on our operating results in any quarter if these assumptions
       prove to be incorrect.

III.    CPC and Windchill Strategy
       Considerations

We are implementing a new strategy to capitalize on an
       Internet-based, business-to-business market opportunity known as
       Collaborative Product Commerce (CPC). It may be that our assumptions
       about the CPC market opportunity are wrong, which could adversely affect
       our results

We have identified Collaborative Product Commerce as a new market
       opportunity for us, and have devoted significant resources toward
       capitalizing on that opportunity. CPC solutions include software and
       services that use Internet technologies to permit employees, customers,
       suppliers and others to collaboratively develop, build and manage
       products throughout their entire lifecycle. Because the market for
       software products that allow companies to collaborate on product
       information on an enterprise-wide level is newly emerging and because
       companies have not traditionally linked customers and suppliers in this
       process directly, we cannot be certain as to the size of this market,
       whether it will grow, or whether companies will elect to utilize our
       products rather than attempt to develop applications internally or
       through other sources.

In addition, companies that have already invested substantial
       resources in other methods of sharing product information in the
       design-through-manufacture process may be reluctant to adopt a new
       approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems
       or methods. We expect that we will continue to need to pursue intensive
       marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the
       uses and benefits of our products. Demand for and market acceptance of
       our products will be affected by the success of these
       efforts.

Our Windchill software, which is central to our CPC strategy,
       is relatively new and is not yet well established in the
       marketplace

The success of our CPC strategy will depend in large part on the
       ability of our Windchill solutions to meet customer expectations,
       especially with respect to:

Ÿ

ease of
         installation;

Ÿ

ease of
         use;

Ÿ

full
         capability and functionality;

Ÿ

ability to
         support a large user base; and

Ÿ

quality and
         efficiency of the services we perform relating to implementation and
         customization.

The software is still in the initial stages of customer
       installation and implementation. If our customers cannot successfully
       implement large-scale deployments or if they determine that we are
       unable to accommodate large-scale deployments, our operating results may
       be affected.

In addition, implementing a Windchill software solution on an
       enterprise level takes longer and requires greater expertise than does
       installing our other products. Our Windchill software must integrate
       with existing computer systems and software programs used by our
       customers and their partners. Because we are one of the first companies
       to offer a CPC solution, many customers will be facing these integration
       issues for the first time, particularly in the context of collaborating
       with members of the extended enterprise, including customers and supply
       chain partners. Our customers could become dissatisfied with our
       products or services if integrations prove to be difficult, costly or
       time consuming, and our ability to recognize service revenue could be
       impaired.

Competition among providers of CPC solutions may increase,
       which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market
       share

The market for CPC solutions is new, highly fragmented, rapidly
       changing and increasingly competitive. We expect competition to
       intensify, which could result in price reductions for our products and
       services, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our primary
       competition comes from:

Ÿ

in-house
         development efforts by potential customers or partners;

Ÿ

other vendors
         of engineering information management software; and

Ÿ

larger, more
         well-known enterprise software providers seeking to extend the
         functionality of their products to encompass CPC.

In addition, our professional services organization may face
       increasing competition for follow-on customization services from other
       third-party consultants and service providers.

If use of the Internet does not continue to develop or
       reliably support the demands placed on it by electronic commerce, we may
       experience a loss of sales

Our success depends upon continued growth in the use of the
       Internet as a medium of commerce. Although the Internet is experiencing
       rapid growth in the overall number of users, this growth is a recent
       phenomenon and may not continue. Furthermore, the use of the Internet
       for commerce is still relatively new. As a result, a sufficiently broad
       base of companies and their supply chain partners may not adopt or
       continue to use the Internet as a medium of exchanging product
       information. Our CPC strategy would be seriously harmed if:

Ÿ

use of the
         Internet does not continue to increase or increases more slowly than
         expected;

Ÿ

the
         infrastructure for the Internet does not effectively support
         enterprises and their supply chain partners;

Ÿ

the Internet
         does not create a viable commercial marketplace, thereby inhibiting
         the development of electronic commerce and reducing the demand for our
         products; or

Ÿ

concerns over
         the secure transmission of confidential information over public
         networks inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting
         commercial transactions.

Our CPC strategy will also be seriously harmed if the Internet
       infrastructure is not able to support the demands placed on it by
       increased usage or the limited capacity of networks to transmit large
       amounts of data, or if delays in the development or adoption of new
       equipment standards or protocols required to handle increased levels of
       Internet activity, or increased governmental regulation, cause the
       Internet to lose its viability as a means of communication between
       manufacturers and their customers and supply chain partners.

IV.    Other
       Considerations

Our stock price, which may reflect an Internet valuation, has
       been highly volatile; this may make it harder to resell your shares at
       the time and at a price that is favorable to you

Market prices for securities of software companies have generally
       been volatile. In particular, the market price of our common stock has
       been and may continue to be subject to significant
       fluctuations.

In addition, our expanded focus on delivering Internet-based
       solutions may cause us to be viewed, in part, as an Internet company.
       The trading prices of Internet stocks in general are unusually high
       under conventional valuation standards such as price-to-earnings and
       price-to-sales ratios and have experienced fluctuations unrelated or
       disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The
       trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be
       sustained. Any negative change in the public's perception of the
       prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies, or of PTC as an Internet
       company, could depress our stock price regardless of our
       results.

Also, a large percentage of our common stock traditionally has
       been held by institutional investors. Consequently, actions with respect
       to our common stock by certain of these institutional investors could
       have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more
       information, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most
       recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed
       with the SEC with respect to our common stock.

We are
         currently defending a securities class action lawsuit in which we
         could be liable for damages

Certain class action lawsuits were filed by shareholders in the
       fourth quarter of 1998 against us and certain of our current and former
       officers and directors in the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts
       claiming violations of the federal securities laws based on alleged
       misrepresentations regarding our anticipated revenue and earnings for
       the third quarter of 1998. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits joined
       together to file a consolidated and amended complaint in the second
       quarter of 1999. The consolidated and amended complaint seeks
       unspecified damages. We believe the claims made in the consolidated and
       amended complaint are without merit, and we intend to defend them
       vigorously. In the third quarter of 1999 we filed a motion to dismiss
       the consolidated and amended
     complaint. We cannot predict the outcome of this motion or the ultimate
       resolution of this action at this time, and there can be no assurance
       that the litigation will not have a material adverse impact on our
       financial condition or results of operations.

Year 2000
         problems could cause interruption or failure with respect to our
         product offerings, our internal computer systems and those of our
         critical vendors and suppliers

Our operations and results could be adversely affected if our
       current product offerings or internal systems are not made Year 2000
       compliant or if the major vendors or suppliers with whom we deal are not
       Year 2000 ready and cannot be easily replaced. In addition, purchases by
       our customers could be affected if they must expend significant
       resources to correct their own systems.

Our
         operations in Europe may be affected by the European Union's
         conversion to a common currency

The conversion of major European countries to a common legal
       currency creates uncertainties for companies like us that do significant
       business in Europe. These uncertainties include technical adaptation of
       internal systems to accommodate euro-denominated transactions, long-term
       competitive implications of the conversion and the effect on market risk
       with respect to financial instruments.

ITEM 7A:    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
       about Market Risk

We face exposure to financial market risks, including adverse
       movements in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest
       rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve
       and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our
       primary exposure has been related to local currency revenue and
       operating expenses in Europe and the Asia/Pacific region. Historically,
       we have hedged currency exposures associated with certain accounts
       receivable denominated in local currencies and certain anticipated
       foreign currency revenue transactions. The goal of our hedging activity
       is to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain local
       currency accounts receivable and foreign currency revenue transactions.
       The success of this activity depends upon forecasts of transaction
       activity denominated in various currencies. To the extent that these
       forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency
       volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses.
       Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at September 30, 1999
       matured within three months, and did not have a material impact on our
       financial results.

The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets
       for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable
       approximate fair value at the balance sheet date due to the short
       maturities of these instruments.

We maintain investment portfolio holdings of various issuers,
       types and maturities. These securities are generally classified as
       available for sale, and consequently, are recorded on the balance sheet
       at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses included in
       stockholders' equity. Given the short maturities and investment grade
       quality of the portfolio holdings at September 30, 1999, a sharp rise in
       interest rates should not have a material adverse impact on the fair
       value of our investment portfolio. As a result, we do not currently
       hedge these interest rate exposures.

The following table presents hypothetical changes in fair values
       in our financial instruments at September 30, 1999 that are sensitive to
       changes in interest rates. Our modeling technique measures the change in
       fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates.
       Movements in interest rates of plus or minus 50 basis points (BP) and
       100 BP reflect immediate hypothetical shifts in the fair value of these
       investments. Fair value represents the market principal plus accrued
       interest and dividends of certain interest-rate-sensitive securities
       considered cash equivalents or investments for financial reporting
       purposes at September 30, 1999.

The Federal Reserve has adjusted the Federal Funds Rate by a 50
       BP move eight times during the last 40 quarters, whereas they have never
       adjusted the Federal Funds Rate by a 100 BP move during the same period.
       The last 50 BP move occurred in February 1995.

ITEM 8:    Financial Statements and Supplementary
       Data

The consolidated financial statements and notes to the
       consolidated financial statements are attached as APPENDIX A
       below.

ITEM 9:    Changes in and Disagreements with
       Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

ITEM 10:    Directors and Executive Officers of the
       Registrant

Information with respect to our directors may be found in the
       sections captioned "Proposal 1: Elect Three Directors" and "Who     Are
       Our Directors" appearing in our 2000 Proxy Statement. Such information
       is incorporated herein by reference.

Our executive officers are:

Mr. Walske has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since
       August 1994 and Chief Executive Officer and a director since he joined
       PTC in December 1986. Mr. Walske was President of PTC from December 1986
       to August 1994.

Mr. Harrison has been President and Chief Operating Officer since
       August 1994. Mr. Harrison had served as Senior Vice President of Sales
       and Distribution from September 1991 until August 1994.

Mr. Gillis has been Executive Vice President since October 1996
       and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since October 1995. Mr. Gillis
       had served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration from
       October 1995 to September 1996. Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Gillis was
       Senior Vice President of Finance and Operations and Chief Financial
       Officer at Lotus Development Corporation from August 1991 until
       September 1995.

Mr. Baum has been Executive Vice President, Engineering,
       Research and Development since October 1998. Mr. Baum had served as
       Senior Vice President in various product development and marketing roles
       from December 1996 to September 1998. Prior to that he was Vice
       President, Technical Marketing from October 1995 to November 1996 and
       Director of Design/Manufacturing Applications from May 1993 to September
       1995.

Mr. Cohen has been Executive Vice President, Marketing since
       January 1998. Prior to joining PTC, Mr. Cohen was Senior Vice President,
       Human Development and Organizational Productivity at Computervision
       Corporation from November 1993 to January 1998.

Mr. Friedman has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel
       and Clerk since October 1999. Mr. Friedman had served as Vice President,
       General Counsel and Clerk from October 1998 to September 1999 and as
       Associate Corporate Counsel from September 1996 to September 1998. Prior
       to joining PTC, Mr. Friedman was a Partner at the law firm of Palmer
       & Dodge LLP from January 1994 to August 1996.

Mr. Kelliher has been Senior Vice President of Business
       Development since November 1998. Mr. Kelliher had served as Senior Vice
       President of Finance from June 1997 to October 1998, Vice President of
       Finance from December 1994 until June 1997, Director of Corporate
       Finance from November 1994 to December 1994 and Chief Financial Officer
       of Europe from May 1993 to November 1994.

ITEM 11:    Executive Compensation

Information with respect to executive compensation may be found
       under the headings captioned “How We Compensate Our Directors”
       and “Information About Executive Compensation” appearing in
       our 2000 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by
       reference.

ITEM 12:    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
       Owners and Management

Information with respect to security ownership may be found under
       the heading captioned “Information About PTC Common Stock Ownership
       ” appearing in our 2000 Proxy Statement. Such information is
       incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13:    Certain Relationships and Related
       Transactions

Information with respect to this item may be found under the
       heading “Information About Certain Insider Relationships”
       appearing in our 2000 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated
       herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
       and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 
          Documents Filed as Part of Form 10-K

1. Financial
         Statements

—

Consolidated
         Balance Sheets as of September 30, 1998 and 1999

—

Consolidated
         Statements of Income for the years ended September 30, 1997, 1998 and

—

Consolidated
         Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 30, 1997, 1998
         and 1999

—

Consolidated
         Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended September
         30, 1997, 1998 and 1999

—

Consolidated
         Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended September 30,
         1997, 1998 and 1999

—

Notes to
         Consolidated Financial Statements

—

Report of
         Independent Accountants for the years ended September 30, 1997, 1998
         and 1999

2. Financial Statement
         Schedules

— Schedule II
         —Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

— Schedules other than
         the one listed above have been omitted since they are either
         not

required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise
         included.

3. Exhibits

— As part of this
         Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file and incorporate by
         reference

the
         Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such
         Exhibits.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

None.

(c)  Exhibits

As part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file the
       Exhibits listed in the attached Exhibit Index.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules

As part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we hereby file the
       financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)2 above.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
       report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
       authorized on the 17th day of December, 1999.

POWER OF ATTORNEY

We,
       the undersigned officers and directors of Parametric Technology
       Corporation, hereby severally constitute Edwin J. Gillis and David R.
       Friedman, Esq., and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys
       with full power to them, and each of them singly, to sign for us and in
       our names in the capacities indicated below any and all subsequent
       amendments to this report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto
       and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
       Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of
       said attorneys-in-fact may do or cause to be done by virtue
       hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
       1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
       behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated
       below.

EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Identifies a management contract or compensatory
                plan or arrangement in which an executive officer or director
                of PTC participates.

SCHEDULE II

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
              CORPORATION

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
              ACCOUNTS

(1)

Uncollectible accounts written-off, net of
                recoveries.

APPENDIX A

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
              CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
             consolidated financial statements.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
             CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
             INCOME

(in thousands, except per share
             data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
             consolidated financial statements.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
             CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
             FLOWS

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
             consolidated financial statements.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
             CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
             EQUITY

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part
               of the consolidated financial statements.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A.    Summary of
               Significant Accounting Policies

Business

Parametric Technology Corporation develops,
               markets and supports a comprehensive suite of integrated product
               development and information management software. We operate in a
               single industry segment—computer software and related
               services.

Basis of Presentation

Our fiscal year-end is September 30. The
               consolidated financial statements include the parent company and
               its wholly owned subsidiaries, including those operating outside
               the U.S. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
               have been eliminated in the financial statements. Certain
               reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. We
               prepare our financial statements under generally accepted
               accounting principles that require management to make estimates
               and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and the related
               disclosures. Actual results could differ from these
               estimates.

As described in Note B, in January 1998, we
               merged with Computervision Corporation. The merger was accounted
               for as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, the accompanying
               consolidated financial statements and notes have been restated
               for all periods presented.

Foreign Currency Translation

For our foreign operations where the functional
               currency is the local currency, we translate assets and
               liabilities at rates in effect at the balance sheet date and
               record translation adjustments in stockholders' equity. For our
               foreign operations where the U.S. dollar is the functional
               currency, we translate monetary assets and liabilities using
               exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and
               nonmonetary assets and liabilities at historical rates and
               record translation adjustments in income. We translate income
               statement amounts at average rates for the period. Transaction
               gains and losses are recorded in other expense in the statement
               of income.

Revenue Recognition

In October 1997, the American Institute of
               Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position (SOP)
               97-2,

Software Revenue Recognition

, which provides
               guidance on applying generally accepted accounting principles on
               recognizing revenue in software transactions. Certain provisions
               of SOP 97-2 have been deferred by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9. We
               adopted SOP 97-2 during the first quarter of 1999. The adoption
               of this statement did not have a material effect on our revenue
               recognition policies or on our results of operations.
               Additionally, we anticipate that the adoption of the deferred
               provisions of this statement will not have a material effect on
               our results of operations.

Our revenue is derived from the licensing of
               computer software products and from service revenue consisting
               of training, consulting and maintenance. License revenue is
               recognized upon contract execution, provided all shipment
               obligations have been met, fees are fixed or determinable and
               collection is probable. Revenue from software maintenance
               contracts is recognized ratably over the contract period.
               Revenue from consulting and training is recognized upon
               performance. Other services revenue is recognized ratably over
               the contractual period.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

Cash, Cash Equivalents and
                 Investments

Our cash is invested in debt instruments of
               financial institutions, government entities, corporations and
               mutual funds. We have established guidelines relative to credit
               ratings, diversification and maturities that maintain safety and
               liquidity. Our cash equivalents include highly liquid
               investments with maturity periods of three months or less when
               purchased. Our short-term investments include those investments
               with maturities in excess of three months but less than one
               year. Our marketable investments are those with maturities in
               excess of one year but less than two years. Our cash equivalents
               and short-term and marketable investments are classified as
               available for sale and reported at fair value with unrealized
               gains and losses included in the accumulated other comprehensive
               loss component of stockholders' equity. We have not had any
               significant losses related to our investments.

Concentration of Credit Risk and Fair Value
                 of Financial Instruments

The amounts reflected in the consolidated balance
               sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and
               accounts payable approximate their fair value due to their short
               maturities. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
               concentration of credit risk consist primarily of investments,
               trade receivables and derivatives. Our cash, cash equivalents,
               investments and derivatives are held with financial institutions
               with high credit standings. Our customer base consists of large
               numbers of geographically diverse customers dispersed across
               many industries. As a result, concentration of credit risk with
               respect to trade receivables is not significant except for a
               receivable from our master distributor, which accounts for 13%
               of total receivables as of September 30, 1999.

Transfer of Financial Assets

We offer our customers the option to purchase
               software and services through payment plans, financing or
               leasing contracts. In general, we transfer future payments under
               certain of these contracts to financing institutions on a
               non-recourse basis. We record such transfers as sales of the
               related accounts receivable when we surrender control of such
               receivables under the provisions of Statement of Financial
               Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 125,

Accounting for Transfers
               and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
               Liabilities

. Fair market value of all service assets and
               liabilities were immaterial for all periods.

Derivatives

Derivatives are financial instruments whose value
               is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments,
               such as foreign currency. We enter into derivative transactions,
               specifically foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign
               exchange option contracts, to manage our exposure to
               fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The contracts are
               primarily in European currencies and Japanese yen and have
               maturities less than one year. Any derivative we enter into is
               designated at inception as a hedge of risks associated with
               specific assets, liabilities, or future commitments and is
               monitored to determine if it remains an effective hedge. The
               effectiveness of the derivative as a hedge is based on changes
               in its market value being highly correlated with changes in
               market value of the underlying hedged items. We do not enter
               into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative
               purposes.

We use forward exchange contracts to hedge
               specific foreign currency denominated receivables. These
               contracts, which are one year or less in length, require us to
               exchange foreign currencies for U.S. dollars at maturity at
               rates agreed to at inception of the contracts. We enter into
               transactions denominated in foreign currencies and include the
               exchange gain or loss arising from such transactions in other
               expense. As of September 30, 1998 and 1999, we had approximately
               $49.8 million and $190.0 million, respectively, of forward
               contracts outstanding. Unrealized and realized gains and losses
               associated with exchange rate fluctuations on forward contracts
               are immaterial for all periods presented. Cash flows from
               forward contracts are classified with the related
               receivables.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

From time to time, we purchase foreign exchange
               option contracts to limit potential losses from adverse
               exchange-rate movements on certain anticipated revenue
               transactions. Premiums to purchase option contracts are
               capitalized in other assets and amortized to other expense over
               the life of the contract. Gains on option contracts, if any, are
               included in license and service revenue in the period in which
               the related local currency revenue is reported. There were no
               outstanding option contracts at September 30, 1998 or
               1999.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and
               depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated
               useful lives. Computer hardware and software are typically
               amortized over three to five years, and furniture and fixtures
               three to eight years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over
               the shorter of their useful lives or the remaining terms of the
               related leases. Property and equipment under capital leases are
               amortized over the lesser of the lease terms or their estimated
               useful lives. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense
               when incurred; additions and improvements are capitalized. When
               an item is sold or retired, the cost and related accumulated
               depreciation is relieved, and the resulting gain or loss, if
               any, is recognized in income.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
                 Assets

Goodwill and other intangible assets includes the
               values attributable to intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is
               amortized over five to seven years and other intangible assets,
               such as assembled workforces, customer lists and developed
               technology, are amortized over three to five years, and
               trademarks, which is also included in other intangible assets,
               are amortized over seven years.

Computer Software Costs

We incur costs to develop computer software to be
               licensed or otherwise marketed to customers. Development costs
               incurred in the research and development of new software
               products and enhancements to existing products are expensed in
               the period incurred, unless these costs qualify for
               capitalization. Capitalized computer software costs are
               amortized over the economic lives of the related products,
               typically three to five years, beginning at their initial
               shipment date. Net capitalized computer software costs are
               included in other assets and were immaterial at September 30,
               1998 and 1999. Amortization charged to cost of license revenue
               was $869,000, $521,000 and $220,000 for fiscal 1997, 1998 and
               1999, respectively.

Management regularly evaluates the net realizable
               value of long lived assets including property and equipment,
               computer software costs and goodwill and other intangible assets
               relying on a number of factors including operating results,
               business plans, budgets and economic projections.

Income Taxes

Our income tax expense includes U.S. and
               international income taxes. Certain items of income and expense
               are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the
               same year. The tax effect of these differences are reported as
               deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are
               recognized, net of valuation allowances, for the estimated
               future tax effects of deductible temporary differences and tax
               operating loss and credit carryforwards. Changes in deferred tax
               assets and liabilities are recorded in the provision for income
               taxes.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

Earnings Per Share (EPS)

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by
               the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the
               period. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the
               weighted average number of shares outstanding plus the dilutive
               effect of outstanding stock options using the "treasury stock"
               method. The following table, adjusted for stock dividends,
               presents the calculation for both basic and diluted
               EPS:

Options to purchase shares of our common stock of
               6.3 million shares for 1997, 11.7 million shares for 1998 and
               18.2 million shares for 1999 were outstanding but were not
               included in the computations of diluted EPS because the price of
               the options was greater than the average market price of the
               common stock for the period reported.

Stock-Based Compensation

We account for stock-based compensation using the
               intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board
               Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB
               No. 25)

, and related interpretations. Under APB No. 25, no
               compensation cost is recognized because the option price is
               equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
               grant. An alternative method of accounting is SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

. Under SFAS No.
               123, employee stock options are valued at the grant date using a
               valuation model, and compensation cost is recognized ratably
               over the vesting period. The impact of recording stock-based
               compensation under the provisions of SFAS No. 123 is disclosed
               in Note J.

New Accounting
                 Pronouncements

Effective October 1, 1998, we adopted SFAS No.
               130,

Reporting Comprehensive Income

, which requires
               presentation of the components of comprehensive income,
               including unrealized gains and losses on investments, foreign
               currency translation adjustments and minimum pension liability
               adjustments.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
               Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative
               Instruments and Hedging Activities

. SFAS No. 133 establishes
               accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
               including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
               contracts (collectively referred to as derivatives), and for
               hedging activities. SFAS No. 133 requires companies to recognize
               all derivatives as either assets or liabilities, with the
               instruments measured at fair value. The accounting for changes
               in fair value, gains or losses, depends on the intended use of
               the derivative and its resulting designation. Originally, the
               statement had been effective for all quarters of fiscal years
               beginning after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB issued
               SFAS No. 137,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
               Hedging Activities

, which postponed the adoption of SFAS No.
               133 until fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We plan to
               implement SFAS No. 133 in our fiscal year 2001. We believe that
               the adoption of this statement will not have a significant
               effect on our consolidated financial statements.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

B.    Acquisitions and
               Nonrecurring Charges

Acquisitions

Computervision

In January 1998, we merged with Computervision
               Corporation by issuing 11.6 million shares of common stock in
               exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of
               Computervision. In connection with the merger, we incurred a
               nonrecurring charge of $76.8 million for merger-related
               integration, consolidation and transaction costs, which are
               described in the acquisition and nonrecurring charges activity
               table below.

As our fiscal year-end differed from
               Computervision's, we combined financial information for
               dissimilar year-ends. Computervision's results of operations for
               its fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 were combined with our
               results of operations for the fiscal year ended September 30,
               1997. In order to conform Computervision's fiscal year-end to
               ours, Computervision's results of operations for the three
               months ended December 31, 1997 were combined with our results of
               operations for the three months ended January 3, 1998.
               Computervision's net loss of $20.2 million for the three months
               ended December 31, 1997, which has been included in the
               consolidated statements of income for the fourth quarter of
               fiscal 1997 and the first quarter of fiscal 1998, has been
               reflected as an adjustment to our beginning balance of fiscal
               1998 accumulated deficit. Due to the change in Computervision's
               year-end, their cash flow activity for the three-month period
               ended December 31, 1997 has been shown as a separate component
               of the cash flow statement. Adjustments recorded to conform
               Computervision's accounting policies to ours were not material
               to the consolidated financial statements. The following table
               shows revenue and net income of the separate companies during
               the period preceding the combination:

ICEM

In June 1998, we acquired ICEM Technologies
               (ICEM), a division of Control Data Systems, Inc., for $40.6
               million in cash. Headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany, ICEM
               provides advanced surfacing and reverse-engineering software
               tools used by body and styling engineers in the automotive and
               aerospace industries. The acquisition was accounted for as a
               purchase. Accordingly, we allocated the purchase price to the
               assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimates
               of fair value. The fair value assigned to intangible assets
               acquired consisted of purchased in-process research and
               development (R&D), developed technology, an assembled
               workforce and trade names. The amounts allocated to tangible and
               intangible assets acquired less the liabilities assumed exceeded
               the purchase price by approximately $7.0 million. This excess
               value over the purchase price was allocated to reduce
               proportionately the values assigned to long-term assets and
               purchased in-process R&D in determining their values. The
               values assigned included $2.1 million for net assets acquired,
               $28.9 million for purchased in-process R&D, $8.0 million for
               developed technology, $1.6 million for an assembled workforce
               and $1.0 million for trade names.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

InPart

In October 1998, we acquired all of the
               outstanding stock in InPart Design, Inc. by issuing 2.0 million
               shares of our common stock. As of September 30, 1999, we issued
               600,000 additional shares to satisfy certain contingent
               conditions, which were included in the purchase price described
               below. In addition, we reserved 386,000 shares of common stock
               for outstanding InPart options assumed. The acquisition was
               accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, we allocated the
               purchase price of $38.1 million to the assets acquired and
               liabilities assumed based on our estimates of fair value. The
               values assigned included $741,000 for net liabilities assumed,
               $10.6 million for purchased in-process R&D, $4.1 million for
               developed technology, $1.1 million for customer lists, $200,000
               for an assembled workforce and $300,000 for trade names. The
               excess purchase price over the amounts allocated to assets
               acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill of
               $22.5 million.

Division

In March 1999, we acquired Division Group plc for
               $37.3 million in cash and 593,000 shares of our common stock.
               The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Accordingly, we
               allocated the purchase price of $48.1 million to the assets
               acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimates of fair
               value. The values assigned included $555,000 for net assets
               acquired, $9.0 million for purchased in-process R&D, $3.3
               million for developed technology, $2.0 million for customer
               lists, $970,000 for an assembled workforce and $2.5 million for
               trade names. The excess purchase price over the amounts
               allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed was
               recorded as goodwill of $29.8 million.

auxilium

In March 1999, we acquired all of the outstanding
               stock of auxilium inc. in exchange for 2.6 million shares of our
               common stock and $39.4 million in cash. In addition, we reserved
               1.1 million shares of common stock for outstanding auxilium
               options assumed. The acquisition was accounted for as a
               purchase. Accordingly, we allocated the purchase price of $101.7
               million to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
               our estimates of fair value. The values assigned included
               $182,000 for net liabilities assumed, $18.6 million for
               purchased in-process R&D, $700,000 for developed technology,
               $5.0 million for customer lists, $630,000 for an assembled
               workforce and $6.0 million for trade names. The excess purchase
               price over the amounts allocated to assets acquired and
               liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill of $70.9
               million.

The operating results of ICEM, InPart, Division
               and auxilium have been included in our results of operations
               from the date of each acquisition. Our purchases of ICEM,
               InPart, Division and auxilium did not require the presentation
               of pro forma information.

In the opinion of management, the purchased
               in-process R&D for the acquisitions of ICEM, InPart,
               Division and auxilium had not yet reached technological
               feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, we
               recorded nonrecurring charges of $28.9 million during the third
               quarter of 1998 related to ICEM, $10.6 million in the first
               quarter of 1999 related to InPart and $27.6 million in the
               second quarter of 1999 related to Division and auxilium. The
               values assigned to purchased in-process R&D were determined
               by identifying research projects for which technological
               feasibility had not been established. The values of the
               purchased in-process R&D were determined by estimating the
               stage of completion, including consideration of the complexity
               of the work completed, the costs incurred and the projected cost
               to complete, the contribution of any core technology and other
               acquired assets and the projected product introduction dates,
               estimating the resulting net cash flows from the products
               developed and discounting the net cash flows back to their
               present value. The discount rates
             used included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
               surrounding the successful development of the purchased
               in-process technology for each acquisition. If these projects
               are not successfully developed, future revenue and profitability
               may be adversely affected, and the value of intangible assets
               acquired, which aggregated $160.6 million, may become
               impaired.

Nonrecurring Charges

Computervision

Nonrecurring charges include actions taken as a
               result of cost saving initiatives implemented during 1997 by
               Computervision. These restructuring costs were accrued and
               charged to expense in accordance with management plans. The
               remaining nonrecurring amounts, principally related to
               facilities, will be paid through 2014.

Sales Force Reorganizations

During the first quarter of 1999, we reorganized
               our sales force to provide a more focused approach to the unique
               product and service requirements of our customers. In connection
               with this action, we incurred a restructuring charge of $3.2
               million for the severance and termination benefits of
               approximately 170 people who had been terminated during the
               first quarter of 1999 in accordance with management's plan.
               During the second quarter of 1999, we incurred a restructuring
               charge of $5.8 million primarily for the severance and
               termination benefits of approximately 150 people in connection
               with the integration of our sales and related support groups.
               All amounts related to terminated employees were paid in
               1999.

Facility Consolidation and Asset
                 Impairment

During the second quarter of 1999, we incurred a
               restructuring charge of $1.4 million for the consolidation of
               certain excess leased facilities. Also, in the second quarter we
               recorded an impairment loss of $4.7 million on certain
               intangible assets related to our industrial design (CDRS)
               activities. Due to recent acquisitions and the development of
               new technology, the carrying value of these assets was
               impaired.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

The following table summarizes all of our
               acquisition and nonrecurring charges:

As of September 30, 1999, of the $45.9 million
               remaining in accrued acquisition and nonrecurring charges, $25.7
               million was included in current liabilities and $20.2 million in
               other liabilities.

C.    Sale of a Business
               Unit

In July 1997, Computervision sold the majority
               interest in its other services business unit, which provided
               hardware support services, to CVSI. Inc. for $32.6 million in
               cash. Due to the sale of this business unit, we have presented
               the revenue and expense of the other services business as a
               separate operating item under other services in our statements
               of income. Other services operating and nonrecurring charges
               includes the operating expenses of the other services business
               and nonrecurring charges of $7.0 million in 1997 related to a
               prior proposed sale of this business unit.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

D.   
                Investments

The fair values of our investments have been
               determined through information obtained from market sources and
               management estimates. We use a specific identification cost
               method to determine the gross realized gains and losses on the
               sale of our securities. Realized gains and losses on the sale of
               investments were immaterial for 1997, 1998 and 1999.

E.    Property and
               Equipment

Our property and equipment consisted of the
               following:

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

Depreciation expense was $30.6 million in 1997,
               $26.4 million in 1998 and $33.3 million in 1999. There were no
               capital leases as of September 30, 1998 or 1999.

F.

Income
               Taxes

Our income before taxes consisted of the
               following:

Our provision for income taxes consisted of the
               following:

The reconciliation between the statutory federal income
                tax rate and our effective income tax rate is shown
                below:

We paid $55.6 million in 1997, $71.3 million in
               1998 and $57.7 million in 1999 for income taxes.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

The significant temporary differences that
               create deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown
               below:

For U.S. tax return purposes, net operating
               losses (NOLs) and tax credit carryforwards are generally
               available to be carried forward to future years. However, the
               Internal Revenue Code limits a corporation’s use of NOLs
               and tax credits after a change of more than 50% of the ownership
               of the corporation. Our merger with Computervision in January
               1998 changed their ownership more than 50%. This change limits
               our usage of the Computervision NOLs to $14.0 million per year
               and $196.0 million cumulatively through 2011. There are other
               limitations imposed on the utilization of such NOLs that will
               further restrict the recognition of such tax benefits. We have
               foreign NOLs that are also subject to various limitations. Due
               to these limitations, we recorded a valuation allowance for the
               tax benefit of a majority of NOLs since realization of these
               future benefits was not sufficiently assured. During 1998 and
               1999, we reduced our valuation allowance $46.5 million and $22.1
               million, respectively, primarily due to changes in ownership
               related to the Computervision merger in 1998 and anticipated
               future benefits from the utilization of certain NOLs in
               1999.

G.

Debt

In connection with the Computervision merger, we
               acquired debt obligations, which were paid in full during the
               second quarter of fiscal 1998. The total cash outlay for
               settlement of these obligations plus accrued interest and
               related fees was $275.7 million. We incurred an extraordinary
               after-tax loss of $19.0 million related to the write-off of
               deferred financing costs and other prepayment costs associated
               with the payment of these debt obligations. We paid interest of
               $29.6 million in 1997 and $10.7 million in 1998 related in these
               debt obligations.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

H.

Commitments and Contingencies

Leasing
                 Arrangements

We lease office facilities and certain equipment
               under operating leases expiring at various dates through 2014.
               In addition to rent, certain leases require us to pay directly
               for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses.
               Lease expense, net of sublease income, was $60.0 million in
               1997, $45.0 million in 1998 and $54.6 million in 1999. At
               September 30, 1999, our future minimum lease payments under
               noncancellable operating leases with remaining terms of one or
               more years are as follows:

As a result of Computervision's cost saving
               initiatives in prior years and our merger with Computervision,
               certain leased facilities were considered excess. As of
               September 30, 1999, the excess facility obligation reserves were
               $31.5 million.

In December 1999, we sold land and certain
               improvements under construction for approximately $31 million
               and entered into a lease covering approximately 381,000 square
               feet of office space in the Boston area that will allow us to
               consolidate and replace our Waltham operations. Occupancy and
               rent should begin in December 2000 and expire in December 2012,
               subject to completion of construction.

Legal
                 Proceedings

Certain class action lawsuits were filed by
               shareholders in the fourth quarter of 1998 against us and
               certain of our current and former officers and directors in the
               U.S. District Court in Massachusetts claiming violations of the
               federal securities laws based on alleged misrepresentations
               regarding our anticipated revenue and earnings for the third
               quarter of 1998. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits joined
               together to file a consolidated and amended complaint in the
               second quarter of 1999. The consolidated and amended complaint
               seeks unspecified damages. We believe the claims made in the
               consolidated and amended complaint are without merit, and we
               intend to defend them vigorously. In the third quarter of 1999
               we filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated and amended
               complaint. We cannot predict the outcome of this motion or the
               ultimate resolution of this action at this time, and there can
               be no assurance that the litigation will not have a material
               adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
               operations.

We are also subject to various legal proceedings
               and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We
               currently believe that resolving these matters will not have a
               material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of
               operations.

I.

Stockholders'
               Equity

Preferred
                 Stock

We may issue up to 5.0 million shares of our
               preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors is
               authorized to fix the rights and terms for each such series
               without additional shareholder approval. As of September 30,
               1998 and 1999, there were no outstanding shares of preferred
               stock.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

Common Stock

Our Articles of Organization authorize us to
               issue up to 350 million shares of our common stock. Shares of
               common stock outstanding are shown below:

On February 12, 1998, our Board of Directors
               declared a one-for-one stock dividend on our common stock to all
               stockholders of record on February 27, 1998. Our consolidated
               financial statements and notes have been retroactively adjusted
               to reflect this stock dividend.

In September 1997, our Board of Directors
               authorized an increase in the number of shares available for
               repurchase from 6.0 million to 12.0 million. During 1997, we
               repurchased 7.4 million shares at a cost of $184.8 million.
               Treasury stock repurchases were suspended during a portion of
               1998 in connection with the Computervision merger. In September
               1998, our Board of Directors authorized a new plan that allows
               us to repurchase up to 20.0 million shares. Through September
               30, 1999, we repurchased 11.0 million shares at a cost of $139.9
               million. Our treasury stock is held on a first in, first out
               cost basis. The repurchased shares will be used to issue shares
               for stock option exercises, employee stock purchase plans and
               potential acquisitions.

J.

Stock
               Plans

Employee
                 Stock Purchase Plan

s

We offer an employee stock purchase plan for all
               eligible employees. Under the plan, up to 4.0 million shares of
               our common stock may be purchased at 85% of the lower of the
               fair market value of the stock on the first or the last day of
               each six-month offering period. Each employee may elect to have
               up to 10% of his or her base pay withheld and applied toward the
               purchase of shares in such offering, up to a maximum of ten
               thousand dollars withheld in any year. During fiscal 1997, 1998
               and 1999, employees purchased 353,000, 677,000 and 1.0 million
               shares at average prices of $18.41, $11.36 and $9.20,
               respectively.

On September 16, 1999, our Board of Directors
               approved a new employee stock purchase plan that terminates on
               September 30, 2009. The terms of this plan are similar to the
               prior plan, except that employee purchases in any year are
               limited to the lesser of $25,000 worth of stock, determined by
               the fair market value of the common stock at the time the
               offering begins, or 15% of his or her base pay. We have reserved
               2.0 million shares of common stock for issuance under this new
               plan.

Stock
                 Option Plans

We have stock option plans for employees,
               directors, officers and consultants that provide for issuance of
               nonqualified and incentive stock options. The option exercise
               price is typically the fair market value at the date of grant.
               These options generally vest over four years and expire ten
               years from the date of grant. As of September 30, 1999, 7.9
               million shares were available for grant and 59.0 million shares
               were reserved for future issuance under stock option
               plans.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

In conjunction with the Computervision merger on
               January 12, 1998, we reserved 1.6 million shares of our common
               stock for outstanding Computervision options assumed. These
               assumed options were granted at prices equal to the fair market
               value at the date of grant, become exercisable generally in
               annual installments over four to five years and expire ten years
               from the date of grant.

In July 1998, our Board of Directors approved a
               one-for-one stock option exchange program that provided
               employees the opportunity to exchange stock options previously
               granted for new options with a current market price and new
               vesting period. Executive officers and directors were not
               eligible to participate in the program. The new options were
               priced at $13.63 based on the closing price of our common stock
               as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market on August 3, 1998, vest
               in equal installments over four years from the August 3, 1998
               grant date and expire on August 3, 2008. A total of 20.0 million
               options with exercise prices ranging from $15.06 to $33.50 per
               share were exchanged under the program. The exchange of such
               options is presented in the following table of stock option
               activity as cancellations and subsequent grants:

Certain employees have disposed of stock acquired
               through the employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of
               incentive stock options earlier than the mandatory holding
               period required. These dispositions, together with the tax
               benefits realized from the exercise of nonqualified stock
               options, create tax benefits that have been recorded as
               increases to additional paid-in capital.

For various price ranges, information for options
               outstanding and exercisable at September 30, 1999 was as
               follows:

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

Valuation of

Stock
                 Plans

We have not recognized compensation expense in
               connection with stock option grants under our plans. However,
               had compensation expense for stock option and employee stock
               purchase plans been determined based on fair value at the grant
               dates as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, pro forma net income and
               earnings per share would have been:

The pro forma disclosures above include the amortization
                of the fair value of all options vested between 1996 and 1999,
                regardless of the grant date. If only options granted after
                1996 were valued, as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, pro forma net
                income and pro forma diluted EPS would have been $54.2 million
                and $0.20 for 1997, $22.4 million and $0.09 for 1998 and $39.4
                million and $0.14 for 1999. The effects on pro forma
                disclosures of applying SFAS No. 123 are not necessarily
                representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of
                future years.

The fair value of options granted has been
                estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
                option-pricing model assuming the following weighted-average
                assumptions:

The weighted average fair value of employee stock
               options granted was $11.17 in 1997, $9.95 in 1998 and $7.96 in
               1999. The expected life used for stock purchase plans was six
               months. The weighted average fair value of shares granted under
               the stock purchase plan was $6.13 in 1997, $7.77 in 1998 and
               $3.80 in 1999.

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was
               developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options
               that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In
               addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
               subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price
               volatility. Because our options have characteristics
               significantly different from those of traded options, and
               because changes in the subjective input assumptions can
               materially affect the fair value estimate, in the opinion of
               management, the existing models do not necessarily provide a
               reliable measure of the fair value of our options.

K.

Employee
               Benefit Plans

We offer a savings plan (PTC plan) to eligible
               employees. The plan is intended to qualify under Section 401(k)
               of the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may defer
               up to 15% of their pre-tax compensation, as defined, but not
               more than statutory limits. We contribute 50% of the amount
               contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of 10% of the
               employee's earnings. Our matching contributions vest at a rate
               of 25% per year of service. We made matching contributions of
               $2.3 million, $3.2 million and $4.7 million in 1997, 1998 and
               1999, respectively.

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

U.S. employees of Computervision who completed
               one year of service were eligible to participate in a savings
               plan (CV plan), which is intended to qualify under Section
               401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Our matching contributions,
               based on the employee's contributions and length of service,
               were $1.5 million for 1997 and $144,000 for 1998. Beginning
               April 1, 1998, participants of the CV plan began contributing to
               the PTC plan and no further contributions were made into the CV
               plan. The assets of the CV plan were merged into the PTC plan in
               the first quarter of fiscal 1999.

L.

Pension
               Plans

We maintain a defined benefit pension plan
               covering certain employees of Computervision. Benefits are based
               upon length of service and average compensation and generally
               vest after five years of service. Accrued pension costs have
               been included in other liabilities.

U.S. Pension Plan

Effective April 1, 1990, the benefits under the
               U.S. pension plan were frozen indefinitely. We contribute all
               amounts deemed necessary on an actuarial basis to satisfy
               Internal Revenue Service funding requirements. Based upon the
               actuarial valuations, we contributed $5.0 million in 1997, $3.8
               million in 1998 and $13.7 million in 1999. Due to the changes in
               actuarial assumptions and underperformance of plan investments,
               as shown below, we were required to record a minimum pension
               liability adjustment of $5.8 million in 1997 and $7.8 million in
               1998. This minimum pension liability was reduced by $3.7 million
               in 1999 due to contributions and fund performance. Plan assets
               consist primarily of money market and pooled fund investments
               with several banks.

Foreign Pension Plans

The accrued international pension cost was
               actuarially computed using assumptions applicable to each
               subsidiary plan and economic environment. We adjusted our
               minimum pension liability related to our foreign plans due to
               the changes in actuarial assumptions and performance of plan
               investments, as shown below. Plan assets consist of investments
               in equities and guaranteed investment contracts with several
               insurance companies and banks.

The following table presents the actuarial
               assumptions used in accounting for the pension
               plans:

The actuarially computed components of net
               periodic pension cost are show below:

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

The following tables display the change in
               benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status:

The following table shows the amounts recognized
               in the balance sheet:

PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
               CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               —(Continued)

M.    Geographic
               Information

During 1999, we adopted SFAS No. 131,

Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
               Information

, which changes the way public companies report
               information about operating segments. SFAS No. 131, which is
               based on the management approach to segment reporting,
               establishes requirements to report selected segment information
               quarterly and to report entity-wide disclosures about products
               and services, major customers and the material countries in
               which the entity holds assets and reports revenue. Operating
               segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which
               separate financial information is available that is evaluated
               regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or
               decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and
               in assessing performance. Our chief operating decision-making
               group is our executive officers.

While we are predominately a computer software
               company, our business is organized geographically. Data for the
               geographic regions in which we operate is presented
               below:

We license products to customers worldwide. Our
               sales and marketing operations outside the United States are
               conducted principally through our foreign sales subsidiaries
               throughout Europe and the Asia/Pacific region. Intercompany
               sales and transfers between geographic areas are accounted for
               at prices that are designed to be representative of unaffiliated
               party transactions. Total exports were $148.5 million, $115.2
               million and $166.2 million in 1997, 1998 and 1999,
               respectively.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
               PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
               statements listed in the index appearing under Item 14(a)(1)
               present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
               of Parametric Technology Corporation and its subsidiaries at
               September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
               and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
               ended September 30, 1999, in conformity with accounting
               principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition,
               in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
               index appearing under Item 14(a)(2) presents fairly, in all
               material respects, the information set forth therein when read
               in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
               statements. These financial statements and financial statement
               schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
               responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
               statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
               We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
               auditing standards generally accepted in the United States which
               require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
               assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
               material misstatement. An audit includes examining on a test
               basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
               financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
               and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
               overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
               audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
               above.

P

RICEWATERHOUSE

C

OOPERS

LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

October 18, 1999, except for Note H,

as to which the date is December 15,

FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (1)

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) (1)

(1)

All financial information has been
                 retroactively restated to reflect the mergers with Rasna in
                 1995 and Computervision in 1998 (Note B).

(2)

Per share data has been retroactively adjusted
                 to reflect the one-for-one stock dividends in 1996 and 1998
                 (Note I).

(3)

The pro forma results exclude (i) the
                 amortization of goodwill and intangible assets; (ii)
                 acquisition and related costs of $29.4 million in 1995, $35.6
                 million in 1996, $76.8 million in the second quarter of 1998,
                 $28.9 million in the third quarter of 1998, $10.6 million in
                 the first quarter of 1999 and $27.6 million in the second
                 quarter of 1999 (Note B); (iii) nonrecurring charges of $11.0
                 million in 1996, $45.0 million in 1997, $3.2 million in the
                 first quarter of 1999 and $11.9 million in the second quarter
                 of 1999 (Note B); (iv) the results of Computervision's other
                 services business unit (Note C); and (v) extraordinary losses
                 of $7.9 million in 1995 and $19.0 million in the second
                 quarter of 1998 (Note G).

(4)

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq
                 National Market under the symbol "PMTC". The common stock
                 prices are based on the Nasdaq Stock Market daily closing
                 stock price.