10-K


c02489e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

Commission file number 1-4797

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

36-1258310

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

3600 W. Lake Avenue, Glenview, Illinois

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

60026-1215

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(847) 724-7500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock

New York Stock Exchange

Chicago Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

X

No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

No

X

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to this
Form

10-K.

[  ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer

X

Accelerated
filer

Non-accelerated
filer

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Act).

Yes

No

X

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2005 was
approximately $16,500,000,000, based on the New York Stock
Exchange closing sales price as of June 30, 2005.

Shares
of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 2006 —
280,918,867.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

2005 Annual Report to Stockholders

Parts I, II, IV

2006 Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
    held on May 5, 2006

Part III

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company” or
“ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915.
The Company is a worldwide manufacturer of highly engineered
products and specialty systems. The Company has approximately
700 operations in 48 countries which were aggregated and
organized for internal reporting purposes in 2005 into the
following five segments:

Engineered Products — North America:

Businesses
in this segment are located in North America and manufacture a
variety of short lead-time plastic and metal components and
fasteners, as well as specialty products for a diverse customer
base. These commercially oriented, value-added products become
part of the customers’ products and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a time period less than
30 days.

In the plastic and metal components and fasteners category,
products include:

In the specialty products category, products include:

Engineered Products — International:

Businesses
in this segment are located outside North America and
manufacture a variety of short lead-time plastic and metal
components and fasteners, as well as specialty products for a
diverse customer base. These commercially oriented, value-added
products become part of the customers’ products and
typically are manufactured and delivered in a time period less
than 30 days.


In the plastic and metal components and fastener category,
products include:

In the specialty products category, products include:

Specialty Systems — North America:

Businesses
in this segment are located in North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented, value-added products become part of
the customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a time period of more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables category, products
include:

In the specialty equipment category, products include:

•

commercial food equipment such as dishwashers, refrigerators,
    mixers, ovens, food slicers and specialty scales for use by
    restaurants, institutions and supermarkets;

•

paint spray equipment for a variety of general industrial
    applications;

•

materials and structural testing machinery and software;


•

static control equipment for electronics and industrial
    applications;

•

wheel balancing and tire uniformity equipment used in the
    automotive industry; and

•

airport ground power generators for commercial and military
    applications.

Specialty Systems — International:

Businesses
in this segment are located outside North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented, value-added products become part of
the customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a time period of more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables category, products
include:

In the specialty equipment category, products include:

Leasing and Investments:

Businesses in this segment make
investments in mortgage entities; leases of telecommunications,
aircraft, air traffic control and other equipment; properties;
affordable housing and a venture capital fund.

The Company’s significant investments are described below:

1)

Mortgage investments

— In 1995, 1996 and 1997,
    the Company invested a total of $300.0 million in three
    separate mortgage entities. In these essentially similar
    transactions, the mortgage entities entered into various
    agreements with a AAA-rated third party related to commercial
    mortgage loans and real estate whereby the Company paid cash of
    $240.0 million ($80.0 million for each transaction),
    issued preferred stock of subsidiaries of $60.0 million
    ($20.0 million for each transaction) and the mortgage
    entities issued nonrecourse notes payable of
    $739.7 million. These agreements, each covering a ten-year
    period, are summarized as follows:

•

The third party transferred to the mortgage entities legal title
    in pools of sub-performing commercial mortgage loans and real
    estate (collectively, the “mortgage-related assets”).
    To balance the economics of the transactions, a Treasury
    security was added to the pool of mortgage-related assets in the
    second transaction and an annuity contract was added to the pool
    of mortgage-related assets in the third transaction.


•

The mortgage entities entered into swap agreements with the
    third party whereby:

In December 2005, in accordance with the

10-year

term of the
    transaction, all remaining mortgage-related assets related to
    the 1995 mortgage investment transaction (the “First
    Mortgage Transaction”) were sold. The Company received
    $150.8 million for its share of the disposition proceeds
    and paid $32.0 million for the redemption of preferred
    stock of a subsidiary and related accrued dividends. As of
    December 31, 2005, there are no remaining assets or
    liabilities related to the First Mortgage Transaction.

See the Leasing and Investments section of the Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis in the Company’s 2005 Annual Report
    to Stockholders for further discussion of the estimated future
    cash flows and risks related to these mortgage investments.

On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation
    No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
    (“FIN 46”) relative to its investments in the
    mortgage entities. FIN 46 requires consolidation of
    variable interest entities in which a company has a controlling
    financial interest, even if it does not have a majority voting
    interest. A company is deemed to have a controlling financial
    interest in a variable interest entity if it has either the
    majority of the risk of loss or the majority of the residual
    returns. Upon its adoption of FIN 46 for the mortgage
    investments as of July 1, 2003, the


Company deconsolidated its investments in the mortgage entities
    as the Company neither bears the majority of the risk of loss
    nor enjoys the majority of any residual returns. No gain or loss
    was recognized in connection with this change in accounting.

Starting in the third quarter of 2003 and for subsequent
    periods, the Company accounts for its net investments in the
    mortgage entities using the equity method of accounting as
    provided in Statement of Position

78-9,

Accounting for
    Investments in Real Estate Ventures. Under this method, the net
    mortgage investments are adjusted through income for changes in
    the Company’s share of the net assets of the mortgage
    entities. The excess of the liquidation value of the investments
    in the mortgage entities over their net book value as of
    July 1, 2003 of $178.3 million is being recognized as
    income over the remaining term of each of the investments.

Prior to the adoption of FIN 46 for the mortgage
    investments as of July 1, 2003, each asset and liability of
    the mortgage entities was recorded based on the appropriate
    accounting method for each component. See the Investments note
    in the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders for a
    detailed explanation of the accounting methods used prior to the
    adoption of FIN 46 for the various assets in these
    transactions.

In January 2006, the Company announced that given the planned
run-off of assets in the Leasing and Investments portfolio and
its desire to utilize free cash flow for core manufacturing
investments and acquisitions, rather than to make additional
financial investments, management has decided to no longer
report this activity as a segment on a prospective basis. In
2006, income from these activities will be reported as
non-operating investment income.

80/20 Business Process

A key element of the Company’s business strategy is its
continuous 80/20 business process for both existing businesses
and new acquisitions. The basic concept of this 80/20 business
process is to focus on what


is most important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of
the value) and to spend less time and resources on the less
important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the
value). The Company’s operations use this 80/20 business
process to simplify and focus on the key parts of their
business, and as a result, reduce complexity that often
disguises what is truly important. The Company’s 700
operations utilize the 80/20 process in various aspects of its
business. Common applications of the 80/20 business process
include:

The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is
that the Company improves its operating and financial
performance. These 80/20 efforts often result in restructuring
projects that reduce costs and improve margins. Corporate
management works closely with those business units that have
operating results below expectations to help the unit apply this
80/20 business process and improve their results.

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued Operations represents the Company’s former
Consumer Products segment which was comprised of the following
businesses: Precor specialty exercise equipment, West Bend small
appliances and premium cookware, and Florida Tile ceramic tile.
The Company’s net loss on disposal of the segment was
$0.9 million in 2004 and $16.5 million in 2003. In
2002, the Company recorded an estimated

after-tax

net gain on
disposal of the segment of $2.4 million, which was deferred
pending the completion of the sale of Florida Tile in 2003.

Current Year Developments

Refer to pages 30 through 48, Management’s Discussion
and Analysis, in the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

Financial Information about Segments and Markets

Segment and geographic data and operating results of the
segments are included on pages 31 through 41 and 74 through
76 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.


The principal end markets served by the Company’s four
continuing manufacturing segments are as follows:

The Company’s manufacturing businesses primarily distribute
their products directly to industrial manufacturers and through
independent distributors.

Backlog

Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the
Company’s businesses as relatively short delivery periods
and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of its
products. Backlog by manufacturing segment as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 is summarized as follows:

Backlog in Thousands of Dollars

Engineered

Specialty

Products-

Engineered

Systems-

Specialty

North

Products-

North

Systems-

America

International

America

International

Total


$

292,000

$

274,000

$

273,000

$

268,000

$

1,107,000


$

287,000

$

268,000

$

231,000

$

171,000

$

957,000

Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2006
were not material in any manufacturing segment as of
December 31, 2005.

The information set forth below is applicable to all industry
segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:

Competition

The Company’s global competitive environment is complex
because of the wide diversity of products the Company
manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the
product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others. The Company is a leading producer
of plastic and metal components and fasteners; laminate
products; polymers and fluid products; automotive aftermarket
maintenance and appearance products; welding products; packaging
machinery and related consumables; equipment for materials
testing; food service equipment; and industrial finishing
equipment.


Raw Materials

The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily
metals, plastics and paper, that are available from numerous
commercial sources. The availability of materials and energy has
not resulted in any significant business interruptions or other
major problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.

Research and Development

The Company’s growth has resulted from developing new and
improved products, broadening the application of established
products, continuing efforts to improve and develop new methods,
processes and equipment, and from acquisitions. Many new
products are designed to reduce customers’ costs by
eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the
number of parts in an assembly, or by improving the quality of
customers’ assembled products. Typically, the development
of such products is accomplished by working closely with
customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and
development costs are set forth on page 54 of the
Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Company owns approximately 3,300 unexpired United States
patents covering articles, methods and machines. Many
counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in various
foreign countries. In addition, the Company has approximately
1,200 applications for patents pending in the United States
Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be
issued. The Company maintains an active patent department for
the administration of patents and processing of patent
applications.

The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and
important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in
the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing
techniques, skills and efficiency; marketing and sales
promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its
customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s
patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s
results of operations or financial position.

Trademarks

Many of the Company’s products are sold under various owned
or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company.
Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme, Angleboard, Apex,
Bernard, Binks, Buildex, Chemtronics, Corex, Deltar, Devcon,
DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Elga, Evercoat, Fastex, Forkardt,
Foster, Gema, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Instron, Intellibuild, Keps,
Krafft, LPS, Magna, Magnaflux, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Nexus,
Orgapack, Paktron, Paslode, Permatex, Pryda, Ramset, Ransburg,
Red Head, Resopal, Rippey, Rockwell, Rocol, Shakeproof, Shore,
Signode, Simco, Spiroid, Spit, Stero, Strapex, Teks, Tempil,
Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Truswal Systems, Tri-Mark, Unipac,
Valeron, Vulcan, Wilsonart, Wynn’s and Zip-Pak.

Environmental

The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental
regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not
expected to materially affect the Company’s capital
expenditures, competitive position, financial position or
results of operations.

Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning
environmental issues have become effective or are under
consideration in many parts of the world relating to
manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products.
To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse
impact on the Company’s sales or earnings. The Company has
made considerable efforts to develop and sell environmentally
compatible products resulting in new and expanding marketing
opportunities.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 50,000 persons as of
December 31, 2005 and considers its employee relations to
be excellent.


International

The Company’s international operations include
subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in 47 countries on
six continents. These operations serve such end markets as
construction, automotive, food institutional and retail, general
industrial, food and beverage, and others on a worldwide basis.
The Company’s international operations contributed
approximately 44% of operating revenues in 2005 and 2004.

Refer to pages 30 through 48 and 74 through 76 in the
Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional
information on international activities. International
operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting
business in foreign countries, including price controls,
exchange controls, limitations on participation in local
enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other
governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking Statements

This annual report on
Form

10-K

contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without
limitation, statements regarding availability of raw materials
and energy, the expiration of any one of the Company’s
patents, the cost of compliance with environmental regulations,
the Company’s 2006 forecasts and assumptions, the adequacy
of internally generated funds, the recoverability of the
Company’s investment in mortgage entities, future cash
flows and income from the Company’s mortgage investments,
equipment leases, the meeting of dividend payout objectives, the
impact of the repeal of the ETI benefit on the Company’s
future U.S. tax payments, the impact of the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004, including the amount of U.S. pre-tax
manufacturing income that would qualify as eligible income,
payments under guarantees, the Company’s portion of future
benefit payments related to pension and other postretirement
benefits, the availability of additional financing and the
outcome of outstanding legal proceedings. These statements are
subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors,
which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated. Important risks that may influence future results
include (1) a downturn in the construction, automotive,
general industrial, food institutional and retail, or real
estate markets, (2) deterioration in global and domestic
business and economic conditions, particularly in North America,
the European Community, Asia or Australia, (3) the
unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations and costs of
raw materials, (4) an interruption in, or reduction in,
introducing new products into the Company’s product lines,
(5) an unfavorable environment for making acquisitions,
domestic and international, including adverse accounting or
regulatory requirements and market values of candidates, and
(6) unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings.
The risks covered here are not all inclusive and given these and
other possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a
prediction of actual results.

ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties.
Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates
with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it
is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material
non-public information or other confidential commercial
information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with
any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of
the content of the statement or report.


Executive Officers

Executive Officers of the Company as of February 24, 2006
were as follows:

The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of
the Board of Directors. Except for Messrs. Callahan,
Campbell, Hindman, Kropp, Osterkorn, Santi, and Wooten, each of
the foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in
various elected executive capacities for more than five years.
Mr. Callahan was elected Senior Vice President in 2002. He
joined the Company in 1976 and has served the Company in various
human resource capacities over the last 29 years.
Mr. Campbell was elected Executive Vice President in 2004.
He joined the Company in 1981 and served as president of various
packaging and printing businesses since 1986. Mr. Hindman
was elected Executive Vice President in 2004. He joined the
Company in 1976 and has held various sales, marketing and
general management positions with the construction products
businesses. Mr. Kropp was designated Principal Accounting
Officer in 2005. He joined the Company in 1993. He has held
various financial management positions and was appointed as Vice
President and Controller, Financial Reporting in 2002.
Mr. Osterkorn was appointed Vice President and Controller,
Operations in 2005. He joined the Company in 1988 and has held
various financial management positions with the automotive and
packaging businesses. Mr. Santi was elected Executive Vice
President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1983 and has held
various sales, marketing and general management positions with
the construction products, machined components and welding
businesses during his 23 years with the Company.
Mr. Wooten was elected Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary in 2005. He joined the Company in 1988 and
has held positions of increasing responsibility in the legal
department over the last 17 years.

Internet Information

Copies of the following information are available free of charge
through the Company’s website (www.itw.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files
the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and are available in print to any
shareholder who requests it:

•

The Company’s Annual Report on
    Form

10-K,

Quarterly Reports on
    Form

10-Q

and
    Current Reports on
    Form

8-K;

•

Statement of Principles of Conduct;

•

Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting
    personnel;


•

Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating and
    Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors;

•

Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

•

Board amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934.

ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors

Not applicable.

ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2005, the Company operated the following
plants and office facilities, excluding regional sales offices
and warehouse facilities:

Number

Floor Space

of

Properties

Owned

Leased

Total

(In millions of square feet)

Engineered Products — North America


8.1

2.8

10.9

Engineered Products — International


5.6

2.2

7.8

Specialty Systems — North America


8.9

3.1

12.0

Specialty Systems — International


6.6

2.4

9.0

Leasing and Investments


0.9

0.1

1.0

Corporate


1.6

—

1.6


31.7

10.6

42.3

The principal plants outside of the U.S. are in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic,
Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom.

The Company’s properties are primarily of steel, brick or
concrete construction and are maintained in good operating
condition. Productive capacity, in general, currently exceeds
operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible based on
the number of shifts operated and on the number of overtime
hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from time to
time as required by increased demand. Additions to capacity can
be made within a reasonable period of time due to the nature of
the businesses.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

Wilsonart International, Inc. (“Wilsonart”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of ITW, is a defendant in a consolidated class
action lawsuit filed in June 2000 in U.S. federal district
court in White Plains, New York on behalf of purchasers of
high-pressure laminate. The complaint alleges that Wilsonart
participated in a conspiracy with competitors to fix, raise,
maintain or stabilize prices for high-pressure laminate between
1994 and 2000 and seeks injunctive relief and treble damages.
Indirect purchasers of high-pressure laminate filed similar
purported class action cases under various state antitrust and
consumer protection statutes in 13 states and the District
of Columbia, all of which cases have been stayed pending the
outcome of the consolidated class action. These lawsuits were
brought following the commencement of a federal grand jury
investigation into price-fixing in the high-pressure laminate
industry, which investigation was subsequently closed by the
Department of Justice with no further proceedings and with all
documents being returned to the parties. Plaintiffs are seeking
damages of $470,000,000 before trebling. Without admitting
liability, Wilsonart’s co-defendants, International Paper
Company and Panolam International, Inc., have settled the
federal consoli-


dated class action case for $31,000,000 and $9,500,000,
respectively. The plaintiffs’ claims against Formica
Corporation, the remaining co-defendant in the case, were
dismissed with prejudice on September 27, 2004 as a result
of its bankruptcy proceedings. As a result, Wilsonart is the
sole remaining defendant in the consolidated class action
lawsuit. While no assurances can be given regarding the ultimate
outcome or the timing of the resolution of these claims, the
Company believes that the plaintiffs’ claims are without
merit and intends to continue to defend itself vigorously in
this action and all related actions that are now pending or that
may be brought in the future.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Market information, holders of record and dividend data is
incorporated by reference to page 77 of the Company’s
2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

Effective January 1, 2005 the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),
Share Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”), which requires
the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in
exchange for equity awards based on the grant date fair value.
Refer to pages 72 through 74 of the Company’s 2005
Annual Report to Stockholders for discussion of the effect of
the change in accounting principle.

On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
(“FIN 46”) relative to its investments in the
mortgage entities. Refer to pages 60 and 61 of the
Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders for discussion
of the adoption of FIN 46.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets. Under SFAS 142, the Company does not
amortize goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite
lives. SFAS 142 also requires that the Company assess
goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for
impairment at least annually, based on the fair value of the
related reporting unit or intangible asset.

ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

This information is incorporated by reference to pages 30
through 48 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to
Stockholders.


ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

This information is incorporated by reference to pages 46
and 47 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and report thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February 24, 2006, as
found on pages 50 through 76 and the supplementary data as
found on page 77 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report
to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference. The unaudited
interim financial statements included as supplementary data
reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management,
necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim
periods presented.

ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the participation of the
Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and
Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting, has
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule

13a-15(e))

as
of December 31, 2005. Based on such evaluation, the
Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and
Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting have
concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective in timely
alerting the Company’s management to all information
required to be included in this
Form

10-K

and
other Exchange Act filings.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

The Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, as found on page 49 of the Company’s 2005
Annual Report to Stockholders, is incorporated by reference.

The Company’s Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, as found on page 50 of the Company’s
2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, is incorporated by reference.

In connection with the evaluation by management, including the
Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and
Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting, no
changes in the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule

13a-15(f))

during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 were identified
that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to
materially affect the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding the Directors of the Company is
incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
“Election of Directors” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding the Audit Committee and its Financial
Experts is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption “Board of Directors and Its Committees”
and “Report of the Audit Committee” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.


Information regarding the Executive Officers of the Company can
be found in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

on
page 11.

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in the Company’s Proxy Statement
for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding the Company’s code of ethics that
applies to the Company’s President and Chief Executive
Officer, Vice President and Controller, Financial
Reporting, and key financial and accounting personnel is
incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
“Corporate Governance Policies and Practices” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions “Executive Compensation” and
“Director Compensation” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions “Ownership of ITW Stock” and
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Ownership of ITW Stock” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Ratification of the Appointment of
Independent Public Accountants” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)(1) Financial
Statements

The financial statements and report thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February 24, 2006 as
found on pages 50 through 76 and the supplementary data as
found on page 77 of the Company’s 2005 Annual Report
to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

(2) Financial
Statement Schedules

Not applicable.

(3) Exhibits

(i)     See
the Exhibit Index on pages 18 and 19 of this
Form

10-K.

(ii) Pursuant
to Regulation

S-K,

Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not filed with
Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount
of securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis as of December 31, 2005, with the
exception of the agreements related to the


/


%
Note and the indenture related to the


/


% Note,
which are filed with Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to
furnish a copy of the agreements related to the debt instruments
which have not been filed with Exhibit 4 to the Securities
and Exchange Commission upon request.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized on this 24th day of February 2006.

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

By

/s/

DAVID B. SPEER

David B. Speer

President and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on this
24th day of February 2006.

Original powers of attorney authorizing David B. Speer to sign
the Company’s Annual Report on
Form

10-K

and
amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named directors of the
registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

(Exhibit 24).


EXHIBIT INDEX

ANNUAL REPORT on
FORM

10-K



*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

19