10-K


c92475e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission file number 1-4797

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

36-1258310

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

3600 W. Lake Avenue, Glenview, Illinois

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

60026-1215

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(847) 724-7500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock

New York Stock Exchange

Chicago Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
[     ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

X

No

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2004, was
approximately $23,800,000,000, based on the New York Stock
Exchange closing sales price as of June 30, 2004.

Shares
of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 2005 —
292,257,801.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

2004 Annual Report to Stockholders

Parts I, II, IV

2005 Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
    held on May 6, 2005

Part III

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company” or
“ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915.
The Company is a worldwide manufacturer of highly engineered
products and specialty systems. The Company has approximately
650 operations in 45 countries that are aggregated and
organized for internal reporting purposes into the following
five segments:

Engineered Products — North America:

Businesses
in this segment are located in North America and manufacture a
variety of short lead-time plastic and metal components and
fasteners, as well as specialty products for a diverse customer
base. These commercially oriented, value-added products become
part of the customers’ products and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a time period less than
30 days.

In the plastic and metal components and fasteners category,
products include:

In the specialty products category, products include:

Engineered Products — International:

Businesses
in this segment are located outside North America and
manufacture a variety of short lead-time plastic and metal
components and fasteners, as well as specialty products for a
diverse customer base. These commercially oriented, value-added
products become part of the customers’ products and
typically are manufactured and delivered in a time period less
than 30 days.

In the plastic and metal components and fastener category,
products include:

•

plastic components for automotive, appliance and electronics
    applications; and

•

plastic fasteners for automotive, appliance and electronics
    applications.

In the specialty products category, products include:

Specialty Systems — North America:

Businesses
in this segment are located in North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented value-added products become part of
the customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a time period more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables category, products
include:

In the specialty equipment category, products include:

Specialty Systems — International:

Businesses
in this segment are located outside North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented, value-added products become part of
the customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a time period more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables category, products
include:

•

industrial packaging equipment and plastic and steel strapping
    for the bundling and shipment of a variety of products for
    customers in numerous end markets;

•

welding equipment and metal consumables for a variety of end
    market users;


In the specialty equipment category, products include:

Leasing and Investments:

Businesses in this segment make
investments in mortgage entities, leases of telecommunications,
aircraft, air traffic control and other equipment, properties,
affordable housing and a venture capital fund. As a result of
the Company’s strong cash flow, the Company has
historically had excess funds to make opportunistic investments
that meet the Company’s desired returns. The Company may be
contractually required to make future cash payments related to
affordable housing capital contributions, venture fund capital
contributions or the dividends or redemption of preferred stock
of subsidiaries. See page 47 in the Company’s 2004
Annual Report to Stockholders for further information regarding
these cash contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004.
The Company’s significant investments are described below:

1)

Mortgage investments

— In 1995, 1996 and 1997,
    the Company invested a total of $300 million in three
    separate mortgage entities. In these essentially similar
    transactions, the mortgage entities entered into various
    agreements with a AAA-rated third party related to commercial
    mortgage loans and real estate whereby the Company paid cash of
    $240 million ($80 million for each transaction),
    issued preferred stock of subsidiaries of $60 million
    ($20 million for each transaction) and the mortgage
    entities issued nonrecourse notes payable of $740 million.
    These agreements, each covering a ten-year period, are
    summarized as follows:

•

The third party transferred to the mortgage entities legal title
    in pools of sub-performing commercial mortgage loans and real
    estate (collectively, the “mortgage assets”). To
    balance the economics of the transactions, a Treasury security
    was added to the pool of mortgage-related assets in the second
    transaction and an annuity contract was added to the pool of
    mortgage assets in the third transaction.

•

The mortgage entities entered into swap agreements with the
    third party whereby:

•

The third party (the “swap counter party”) makes the
    contractual principal and interest payments on the mortgage
    entities’ nonrecourse notes payable.

•

The swap counter party receives all of the annual operating cash
    flows from the pools of mortgage assets except for
    $26 million per year ($9 million for the first two
    transactions and $8 million for the third transaction),
    which is paid to the Company.

•

By the tenth year of each transaction, the swap counter party
    (who is also the asset servicer) is required to sell all of the
    mortgage assets. The Company receives the first
    $127.2 million of the disposition proceeds, which is equal
    to the redemption value (liquidation value plus accrued
    dividends) of the $60 million preferred stock of
    subsidiaries. The swap counter party receives the next
    $317.6 million of the disposition proceeds, which will be
    used to pay the principal and interest on the nonrecourse notes
    payable due in year 10.


•

The mortgage entities entered into Servicing, Administration and
    Management agreements (the “servicing agreements”)
    with the swap counter party whereby the swap counter party will
    perform all aspects of the servicing, management and marketing
    of the pools of mortgage assets. In addition, under the terms of
    the servicing agreements, the swap counter party will collect
    all cash flows from the assets and make the required swap
    payments to the mortgage entities, the Company and the holder of
    the nonrecourse notes payable. In exchange for these services,
    the swap counter party is paid an annual servicing fee equal to
    a percentage of the mortgage assets managed and a disposition
    fee equal to a portion of the disposition proceeds from the sale
    of the mortgage assets at the end of ten years.

•

To significantly reduce the risk that the Company will not
    receive its annual cash flow of $26 million per year, the
    swap counter party transferred to the Company legal title to
    certain membership interests in three limited liability
    corporations, which own separate pools of performing mortgage
    loans and real estate. In the event that the mortgage
    entities’ pools of mortgage assets do not generate cash
    flows of at least $26 million per year, the mortgage
    entities have a right to receive the shortfall from the cash
    flow generated by the pools of assets owned by the limited
    liability corporations. This collateral right is the
    Company’s only interest in the limited liability
    corporations.

•

In 2000, the servicing agreements were amended such that the
    disposition proceeds from the sales of the original mortgage
    assets were allowed to be reinvested in replacement mortgage
    assets. As part of the amendment, the swap counter party
    guaranteed that the disposition proceeds of the replacement
    mortgage assets would be no less than the disposition proceeds
    from the sales of the original mortgage assets.

2)

Leases of equipment

— The Company has entered
    into numerous leases of equipment used in the telecommunications
    and transportation industries. These leases are accounted for as
    leveraged, operating or sales-type leases. See the Investments
    note in the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders
    for further discussion of these leases.


3)

Affordable housing limited partnerships

— The
    Company has entered into several affordable housing limited
    partnerships primarily to receive tax benefits in the form of
    tax credits and tax deductions from operating losses. See the
    Investments note in the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
    Stockholders for further discussion of these investments.

80/20 Business Process

A key element of the Company’s business strategy is its
continuous 80/20 business process. The basic concept of this
80/20 business process is to focus on what is most important
(the 20% of the items which account for 80% of the value) and to
spend less time and resources on the less important (the 80% of
the items which account for 20% of the value). The
Company’s operations use this 80/20 business process to
simplify and focus on the key parts of their business, and as a
result, reduce complexity that often disguises what is truly
important. Each of the Company’s 650 operations utilizes
the 80/20 process in all aspects of its business. Common
applications of the 80/20 business process include:

The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is
that the Company improves its operating and financial
performance. These 80/20 efforts often result in restructuring
projects that reduce costs and improve margins. Corporate
management works closely with those business units that have
operating results below expectations to help the unit apply this
80/20 business process and improve their results.

Premark Merger

In 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITW merged with Premark
International, Inc. (“Premark”), a manufacturer of
commercial food equipment and laminate products. Shareholders of
Premark received .8081 shares of ITW common stock in
exchange for each share of Premark common stock outstanding. A
total of 49,781,665 of ITW common stock shares were issued to
the former Premark shareholders in connection with the merger.
The merger was accounted for under the pooling-of-interests
accounting method. Accordingly, ITW’s historical financial
statements for periods prior to the merger have been restated to
include the results of operations, financial position and cash
flows of Premark as though the companies had been combined
during such periods.

Discontinued Operations

In 2001, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the
divestiture of the Consumer Products segment. These businesses
were acquired by ITW in 1999 as part of the Company’s
merger with Premark. Subsequent to the Premark merger, the
Company determined that the consumer characteristics of the
businesses in the Consumer Products segment were not a good
long-term fit with the Company’s other industrially focused
businesses. Businesses in this segment were located primarily in
North America and manufactured household products that are used
by consumers, including Precor specialty exercise equipment,
West Bend small appliances and premium cookware and Florida Tile
ceramic tile. On October 31, 2002, the sales of Precor and
West Bend were completed, resulting in cash proceeds of
$211.2 million. On November 7,


2003, the sale of Florida Tile was completed, resulting in cash
proceeds of $11.5 million. The Company’s net loss on
disposal of the segment was as follows:

During the five-year period ending December 31, 2003, the
Company acquired and disposed of numerous other operations which
did not materially impact consolidated results.

Current Year Developments

Refer to pages 31 through 49, Management’s Discussion
and Analysis, in the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

Financial Information about Segments and Markets

Segment and geographic data and operating results of the
segments are included on pages 32 through 42 and 74 through
76 of the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders.


The principal end markets served by the Company’s four
continuing manufacturing segments are as follows:

The Company’s manufacturing businesses primarily distribute
their products directly to industrial manufacturers and through
independent distributors.

Backlog

Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the
Company’s businesses as relatively short delivery periods
and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of its
products. Backlog by manufacturing segment as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 is summarized as follows:

Backlog in Thousands of Dollars

Engineered

Specialty

Products-

Engineered

Systems-

Specialty

North

Products-

North

Systems-

America

International

America

International

Total


$

258,000

$

249,000

$

245,000

$

172,000

$

924,000


$

236,000

$

199,000

$

205,000

$

143,000

$

783,000

Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2005
were not material in any manufacturing segment as of
December 31, 2004.

The information set forth below is applicable to all industry
segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:

Competition

The Company’s global competitive environment is complex
because of the wide diversity of products the Company
manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the
product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others. The Company is a leading producer
of plastic and metal components and fasteners; laminate
products; polymers and fluid products; welding products;
packaging machinery and related consumables; food service
equipment; and industrial finishing equipment.


Raw Materials

The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily
metals, plastics and paper that are available from numerous
commercial sources. The availability of materials and energy has
not resulted in any significant business interruptions or other
major problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.

Research and Development

The Company’s growth has resulted from developing new and
improved products, broadening the application of established
products, continuing efforts to improve and develop new methods,
processes and equipment, and from acquisitions. Many new
products are designed to reduce customers’ costs by
eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the
number of parts in an assembly, or by improving the quality of
customers’ assembled products. Typically, the development
of such products is accomplished by working closely with
customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and
development costs are set forth on page 55 of the
Company’s 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Company owns approximately 2,900 unexpired United States
patents covering articles, methods and machines. Many
counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in various
foreign countries. In addition, the Company has approximately
1,100 applications for patents pending in the United States
Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be
issued. The Company maintains an active patent department for
the administration of patents and processing of patent
applications.

The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and
important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in
the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing
techniques, skills and efficiency; marketing and sales
promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its
customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s
patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s
results of operations or financial position.

Trademarks

Many of the Company’s products are sold under various owned
or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company.
Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme, Angleboard, Apex,
Bernard, Binks, Buildex, Chemtronics, Corex, Deltar, Devcon,
DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Elga, Evercoat, Fastex, Foster, Gema,
Hi-Cone, Hobart, Intellibuild, Keps, Krafft, LPS, Magna,
Magnaflux, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Nexus, Orgapack, Paktron,
Paslode, Permatex, Pryda, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Resopal,
Rocol, Shakeproof, Signode, Simco, Spit, Stero, Strapex, Teks,
Tempil, Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Truswal Systems, Tri-Mark,
Unipac, Valeron, Vulcan, Wilsonart, Wynn and Zip-Pak.

Environmental

The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental
regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not
expected to materially affect the Company’s capital
expenditures, competitive position, financial position or
results of operations.

Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning
environmental issues have become effective or are under
consideration in many parts of the world relating to
manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products.
To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse
impact on the Company’s sales or earnings. The Company has
made considerable efforts to develop and sell environmentally
compatible products resulting in new and expanding marketing
opportunities.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 49,000 persons as of
December 31, 2004 and considers its employee relations to
be excellent.


International

The Company’s international operations include
subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in 44 countries
on six continents. These operations serve such end markets as
construction, automotive, food retail and service, general
industrial, food and beverage, and others on a worldwide basis.
The Company’s international operations contributed
approximately 44% of operating revenues in 2004 and 41% in 2003.

Refer to pages 31 through 49 and 74 through 76 in the
Company’s 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional
information on international activities. International
operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting
business in foreign countries, including price controls,
exchange controls, limitations on participation in local
enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other
governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking Statements

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation,
statements regarding availability of raw materials and energy,
the cost of compliance with environmental regulations, the
Company’s 2005 forecasts and assumptions, the adequacy of
internally generated funds, the recoverability of the
Company’s investment in mortgage entities, future cash
flows and income from the Company’s mortgage investments,
recoverability of the Company’s investment in equipment
leases, the meeting of dividend payout objectives, the impact of
the adoption of SFAS 123R on stock-based compensation, the
impact of the repeal of the ETI benefit on the Company’s
future U.S. tax payments, the amount of U.S. pre-tax
manufacturing income that would qualify as eligible income,
payments under guarantees, the Company’s portion of future
benefit payments related to pension and other postretirement
benefits and the availability of additional financing. These
statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and
other factors, which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those anticipated. Important risks that may
influence future results include (1) a downturn in the
construction, automotive, general industrial, food retail and
service, or real estate markets, (2) deterioration in
global and domestic business and economic conditions,
particularly in North America, the European Community and
Australia, (3) the unfavorable impact of foreign currency
fluctuations and costs of raw materials, (4) an
interruption in, or reduction in, introducing new products into
the Company’s product lines, (5) an unfavorable
environment for making acquisitions, domestic and international,
including adverse accounting or regulatory requirements and
market values of candidates, and (6) unfavorable tax law
changes and tax authority rulings. The risks covered here are
not all inclusive and given these and other possible risks and
uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.

ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties.
Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates
with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it
is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material
non-public information or other confidential commercial
information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with
any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of
the content of the statement or report.


Executive Officers

Executive Officers of the Company as of February 28, 2005:

The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of
the Board of Directors. Except for Messrs. Callahan,
Campbell, Flood, Gresh, Hindman, and Santi, each of the
foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various
elected executive capacities for more than five years.
Mr. Callahan was elected Senior Vice President in 2002. He
joined the Company in 1976 and has served the Company in various
human resource capacities over the last 28 years.
Mr. Campbell was elected Executive Vice President in 2004.
He joined the Company in 1981 and served as president of various
packaging and printing businesses since 1986. Mr. Flood was
elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He joined the Company
in 1993 and has held various management positions within the
polymers, fluids and machined components businesses and
previously worked for the Company from 1976 to 1991.
Mr. Gresh was elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He
joined the Company in 1989 and has held various sales, marketing
and general management positions with the consumer packaging
businesses. Mr. Hindman was elected Executive Vice
President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1976 and has held
various sales, marketing and general management positions with
the construction products businesses. Mr. Santi was elected
Executive Vice President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1983
and has held various sales, marketing and general management
positions with the construction products, machined components,
and welding businesses during his 22 years with the Company.

Internet Information

Copies of the following information are available free of charge
through the Company’s website (www.itw.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files
the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and are available in print to any
shareholder who requests it:


•

Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

•

Board amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934.

ITEM 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2004, the Company operated the following
plants and office facilities, excluding regional sales offices
and warehouse facilities:

Number

Floor Space

of

Properties

Owned

Leased

Total

(In millions of square feet)

Engineered Products — North America


8.5

2.9

11.4

Engineered Products — International


5.4

2.2

7.6

Specialty Systems — North America


8.7

3.0

11.7

Specialty Systems — International


6.7

1.9

8.6

Leasing and Investments


0.6

0.4

1.0

Corporate


1.5

—

1.5


31.4

10.4

41.8

The principal plants outside of the U.S. are in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

The Company’s properties are primarily of steel, brick or
concrete construction and are maintained in good operating
condition. Productive capacity, in general, currently exceeds
operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible based on
the number of shifts operated and on the number of overtime
hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from time to
time as required by increased demand. Additions to capacity can
be made within a reasonable period of time due to the nature of
the businesses.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

In 2003, the Company received notification from Region V of the
United States Environmental Protection Agency of a number of
alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
at one of its manufacturing facilities in Michigan. The alleged
violations were based on an inspection that took place in 2002.
The notification indicated an intention to seek civil penalties
of $326,000 through an administrative proceeding. The Company
believed that penalties in that amount were unjustified. Through
negotiation with USEPA, the Company recently concluded a
settlement of this matter for $52,726 without admitting to any
of the alleged violations.

Wilsonart International, Inc. (“Wilsonart”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of ITW, is a defendant in a consolidated class
action lawsuit filed in June 2000 in federal district court in
White Plains, New York on behalf of purchasers of high-pressure
laminate. The complaint alleges that Wilsonart participated in a
conspiracy with competitors to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize
prices for high-pressure laminate between 1994 and 2000 and
seeks injunctive relief and treble damages. Indirect purchasers
of high-pressure laminate filed similar purported class action
cases under various state antitrust and consumer protection
statutes in 13 states and the District of Columbia, all of
which cases have been stayed pending the outcome of the
consolidated class action. These lawsuits were brought following
the commencement of a federal grand jury investigation into
price-fixing in the high-pressure laminate industry, which
investigation was subsequently closed by the Department of
Justice with no further proceedings and with all documents being
returned to the parties. Plaintiffs are seeking damages in the
range of $439,000,000 to $475,000,000 before trebling. Without
admitting liability, two of Wilsonart’s co-defendants,
International Paper Company and Panolam International, Inc.,
have settled the federal consolidated class action case for
$31,000,000 and $9,500,000,


respectively. The plaintiffs’ claims against Formica
Corporation, the remaining co-defendant in the case, were
dismissed with prejudice as a result of its bankruptcy
proceedings on September 27, 2004. As a result, Wilsonart
is the sole remaining defendant in the consolidated class action
lawsuit. While no assurances can be given regarding the ultimate
outcome or the timing of the resolution of these claims, the
Company believes that the plaintiffs’ claims are without
merit and intends to continue to defend itself vigorously in
this action and all related actions that are now pending or that
may be brought in the future.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related
    Stockholder Matters

Market information, holders of record and dividend data is
incorporated by reference to page 77 of the Company’s
2004 Annual Report to Stockholders.

On April 19, 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized a stock repurchase program, which provides for the
buy back of up to 31,000,000 shares of common stock.

Share repurchase activity for the fourth quarter was as follows:

Total Number of

Shares Purchased as

Maximum Number that

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

part of Publicly

may yet be Purchased

Period

Shares Purchased

Per Share

Announced Program

Under Program

October 2004

2,151,200

$

91.89

2,151,200

15,582,227

November 2004

2,351,600

94.08

2,351,600

13,230,627

December 2004

1,146,100

94.90

1,146,100

12,084,527

Total

5,648,900

93.41

5,648,900

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
(“FIN 46”) relative to its investments in the
mortgage entities. Refer to pages 61 and 62 of the
Company’s 2004 Annual Report Stockholders for discussion of
the adoption of FIN 46. Effective January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Refer to
pages 64 and 65 of the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
Stockholders for discussion of the effect of the change in
accounting principle.


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

This information is incorporated by reference to pages 31
through 49 of the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

This information is incorporated by reference to page 48 of
the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and report thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, dated March 1, 2005, as found on
pages 51 through 76 and the supplementary data as found on
page 77 of the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the participation of the
Company’s Chairman & Chief Executive Officer and
Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, has
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(e)) as of December 31, 2004. Based on such
evaluation, the Company’s Chairman & Chief
Executive Officer and Senior Vice President & Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31,
2004, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective in timely alerting the Company’s management to
all information required to be included in this Form 10-K
and other Exchange Act filings.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

The Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, as found on page 50 of the Company’s 2004
Annual Report to Stockholders, is incorporated by reference.

The Company’s Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, as found on page 51 of the Company’s
2004 Annual Report to Stockholders, is incorporated by reference.

In connection with the evaluation by management, including the
Company’s Chairman & Chief Executive Officer and
Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, no
changes in the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f))
during the quarter ended December 31, 2004 were identified
that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to
materially affect the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding the Directors of the Company is
incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
“Election of Directors” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


Information regarding the Audit Committee and its Financial
Experts is incorporated by reference to the information under
the captions “Board of Directors and Its Committees”
and “Report of the Audit Committee” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

Information regarding the Executive Officers of the Company can
be found in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
on page 10.

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in the Company’s Proxy Statement
for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding the Company’s code of ethics that
applies to the Company’s Chairman & Chief
Executive Officer, Senior Vice President & Chief
Financial Officer, and key financial and accounting personnel is
incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
“Corporate Governance Policies and Practices” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions “Executive Compensation” and
“Director Compensation” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions “Ownership of ITW Stock” and
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Ownership of ITW Stock” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

This information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Ratification of the Appointment of
Independent Public Accountants” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)(1) Financial
Statements

The financial statements and report thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, dated March 1, 2005 as found on
pages 51 through 76 and the supplementary data as found on
page 77 of the Company’s 2004 Annual Report to
Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

(2) Financial
Statement Schedules

Not applicable.


(3) Exhibits

(i)     See
the Exhibit Index on pages 17 and 18 of this
Form 10-K.

(ii) Pursuant
to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company
has not filed with Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which
the total amount of securities authorized thereunder are less
than 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2004, with the
exception of the agreements related to the


/


%
and


/


% Notes,
which are filed with Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to
furnish a copy of the agreements related to the debt instruments
which have not been filed with Exhibit 4 to the Securities
and Exchange Commission upon request.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized on this 4th day of March 2005.

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

By

/s/

W. JAMES FARRELL

W. James Farrell

Chairman and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on this
4th day of March 2005.

Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James Farrell to sign
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and
amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named directors of the
registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Exhibit 24).


EXHIBIT INDEX

ANNUAL REPORT on FORM 10-K



*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

18