10-K


c83293e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

For
the transition period from

to

Commission file number 1-4797

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(847) 724-7500

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

X

No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,
2003, was approximately $16,100,000,000, based on the
New York Stock Exchange closing sales price as of
June 30, 2003.

Shares of Common Stock outstanding at
February 27, 2004 — 309,473,375.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

2003 Annual Report to Stockholders

Parts I, II, IV

2004 Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders to be held on May 7, 2004

Part III



PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company”
or “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in
1915. The Company is a worldwide manufacturer of highly
engineered products and specialty systems.

The Company has approximately 625 operations in
44 countries that are aggregated and organized for internal
reporting purposes into the following five segments:

Engineered Products — North
America:

Businesses in this segment
are located in North America and manufacture a variety of short
lead-time plastic and metal components and fasteners, as well as
specialty products for a diverse customer base. These
commercially oriented, value-added products become part of the
customers’ products and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a period of time of less than 30 days.

In the plastic and metal components and fasteners
category, products include:

In the specialty products category, products
include:

Engineered Products —
International:

Businesses in this
segment are located outside North America and manufacture a
variety of short lead-time plastic and metal components and
fasteners, as well as specialty products for a diverse customer
base. These commercially oriented, value-added products become
part of the customers’ products and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a period of time of less than
30 days.

In the plastic and metal components and fastener
category, products include:


In the specialty products category, products
include:

Specialty Systems — North
America:

Businesses in this segment
are located in North America and design and manufacture longer
lead-time machinery and related consumables, as well as
specialty equipment for a diverse customer base. These
commercially oriented value-added products become part of the
customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a period of time of more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables
category, products include:

In the specialty equipment category, products
include:

Specialty Systems —
International:

Businesses in this
segment are located outside North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented, value-added products become part of
the customers’ processes and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a period of time of more than 30 days.

In the machinery and related consumables
category, products include:



•

plastic stretch film and related packaging
    equipment for various industrial purposes;

•

paper and plastic products used to protect
    shipments of goods in transit; and

•

foil and film and related equipment used to
    decorate a variety of consumer products.

In the specialty equipment category, products
include:

Leasing and
Investments:

Businesses in this
segment make investments in mortgage entities, leases of
telecommunications, aircraft, air traffic control and other
equipment, properties and property developments, affordable
housing and a venture capital fund. As a result of the
Company’s strong cash flow, the Company has historically
had excess funds to make opportunistic investments that meet the
Company’s desired returns. In connection with some of these
investment transactions, the Company may be contractually
required to make future cash payments related to affordable
housing capital contributions, venture fund capital
contributions or the redemption of preferred stock of
subsidiaries. See the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders for further information regarding these cash
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003. The
Company’s significant investments are described below:

1)

Mortgage
    investments

— In 1995, 1996
    and 1997, the Company invested a total of $300 million in
    three separate mortgage entities. In these essentially similar
    transactions, the mortgage entities entered into various
    agreements with a AAA-rated third party related to commercial
    mortgage loans and real estate whereby the Company paid cash of
    $240 million ($80 million for each transaction),
    issued preferred stock of subsidiaries of $60 million
    ($20 million for each transaction) and the mortgage
    entities issued nonrecourse notes payable of $740 million.
    These agreements, each covering a ten-year period, are
    summarized as follows:

•

The third party transferred to the mortgage
    entities legal title in pools of sub-performing commercial
    mortgage loans and real estate (collectively, the “mortgage
    assets”). To balance the economics of the transactions, a
    Treasury security was added to the pool of assets in the second
    transaction and an annuity contract was added to the pool of
    mortgage assets in the third transaction.

•

The mortgage entities entered into swap
    agreements with the third party whereby:



In addition, under the terms of the servicing
    agreements, the swap counter party will collect all cash flows
    from the assets and make the required swap payments to the
    mortgage entities, the Company and the holder of the nonrecourse
    notes payable. In exchange for these services, the swap counter
    party is paid an annual servicing fee equal to a percentage of
    the mortgage assets managed and a disposition fee equal to a
    portion of the disposition proceeds from the sale of the
    mortgage assets at the end of ten years.

•

To significantly reduce the risk that the Company
    will not receive its annual cash flow of $26 million per
    year, the swap counter party transferred to the Company legal
    title to membership interests in three limited liability
    corporations, which own separate pools of performing mortgage
    loans and real estate. In the event that the mortgage
    entities’ pools of mortgage assets do not generate cash
    flows of at least $26 million per year, the mortgage
    entities have a right to receive the shortfall from the cash
    flow generated by the pools of assets owned by the limited
    liability corporations. This collateral right is the
    Company’s only interest in the limited liability
    corporations.

•

In 2000, the servicing agreements were amended
    such that the disposition proceeds from the sales of the
    original mortgage assets were allowed to be reinvested in
    replacement mortgage assets. As part of the amendment, the swap
    counter party guaranteed that the disposition proceeds of the
    replacement mortgage assets would be no less than the
    disposition proceeds from the sales of the original mortgage
    assets.

2)

Leases of
    equipment

— The Company has
    entered into numerous leases of equipment used in the
    telecommunications and transportation industries. These leases
    are accounted for as leveraged, operating or sales-type leases.
    See the Investments note in the Company’s 2003 Annual
    Report to Stockholders for further discussion of these leases.



3)

Affordable housing limited
    partnerships

— The Company
    has entered into several affordable housing limited partnerships
    primarily to receive tax benefits in the form of tax credits and
    tax deductions from operating losses. See the Investments note
    in the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders for
    further discussion of these investments.

80/20 Simplification Process

A key element of the Company’s business
strategy is its continuous 80/20 simplification process. The
basic concept of this 80/20 process is to focus on what is most
important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of the
value) and to spend less time and resources on the less
important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the
value). The Company’s operations use this 80/20 process to
simplify and focus on the keys parts of their business, and
reduce complexity that often disguises what is truly important.
Each of the Company’s 625 operations utilizes the 80/20
process in all aspects of its business. Common applications of
the 80/20 process include:

The result of the application of this 80/20
simplification process is that the Company improves its
operating and financial performance. These 80/20 efforts often
result in restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve
margins. Corporate management works more closely with those
business units that have operating results below expectations to
help the unit apply this 80/20 simplification process and
improve their results.

Discontinued Operations

In November 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of
ITW merged with Premark International, Inc.
(“Premark”), a manufacturer of commercial food
equipment and laminate products. Shareholders of Premark
received .8081 shares of ITW common stock in exchange for
each share of Premark common stock outstanding. A total of
49,781,665 of ITW common stock shares were issued to the former
Premark shareholders in connection with the merger. The merger
was accounted for under the pooling-of-interests accounting
method. Accordingly, ITW’s historical financial
statements for periods prior to the merger have been restated to
include the results of operations, financial position and cash
flows of Premark as though the companies had been combined
during such periods.

In December 2001, the Company’s Board of
Directors authorized the divestiture of the Consumer Products
segment. These businesses were acquired by ITW in 1999 as part
of the Company’s merger with Premark. Subsequent to the
Premark merger, the Company determined that the consumer
characteristics of the businesses in the Consumer Products
segment were not a good long-term fit with the Company’s
other industrially focused businesses. Businesses in this
segment were located primarily in North America and manufactured
household products that are used by consumers, including Precor
specialty exercise equipment, West Bend small appliances and
premium cookware and Florida Tile ceramic tile. On
October 31, 2002, the sales of Precor and West Bend were
completed, resulting in cash proceeds of $211.2 million. On
November 7,



2003, the sale of Florida Tile was completed,
resulting in cash proceeds of $11.5 million. The
Company’s net loss on disposal of the segment was as
follows:

During the five-year period ending
December 31, 2003, the Company acquired and disposed of
numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.

Current Year Developments

Refer to pages 25 through 42,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, in the Company’s
2003 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Financial Information about Segments and
Markets

Segment and geographic data are included on
pages 26 through 35 and 68 through 70 of the Company’s
2003 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The principal markets served by the
Company’s four continuing manufacturing segments are as
follows:

Operating results of the segments are described
on pages 26 through 35 and 68 through 70 of the
Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Company’s manufacturing businesses
primarily distribute their products directly to industrial
manufacturers and through independent distributors.



Backlog

Backlog generally is not considered a significant
factor in the Company’s businesses as relatively short
delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic
of most of its products. Backlog by continuing manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 is summarized as
follows:

Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond
calendar year 2004 were not material in any manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2003.

The information set forth below is applicable to
all industry segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:

Competition

The Company’s global competitive environment
is complex because of the wide diversity of products the Company
manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the
product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others.

The Company is a leading producer of plastic and
metal components and fasteners; laminate products; polymers and
fluid products; welding products; packaging machinery and
related consumables; food service equipment; and industrial
finishing equipment.

Raw Materials

The Company uses raw materials of various types,
primarily metals, plastics and paper that are available from
numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and
energy has not resulted in any significant business
interruptions or other major problems, nor are any such problems
anticipated.

Research and Development

The Company’s growth has resulted from
developing new and improved products, broadening the application
of established products, continuing efforts to improve and
develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce
customers’ costs by eliminating steps in their
manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts in an
assembly, or by improving the quality of customers’
assembled products. Typically, the development of such products
is accomplished by working closely with customers on specific
applications. Identifiable research and development costs are
set forth on page 49 of the Company’s 2003 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

The Company owns approximately 2,700 unexpired
United States patents covering articles, methods and machines.
Many counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in
various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 950 applications for patents pending in the United
States Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent
will be issued. The Company maintains an active patent
department for the administration of patents and processing of
patent applications.

The Company believes that many of its patents are
valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its
leadership in the markets it serves to engineering capability;
manufacturing techniques, skills and efficiency; marketing and
sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to
its customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s
patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s
results of operations or financial position.



Trademarks

Many of the Company’s products are sold
under various owned or licensed trademarks, which are important
to the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme,
Angleboard, Apex, Bernard, Binks, Buildex, Chemtronics, Corex,
Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Elga, Evercoat,
Fastex, Foster, Gema, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, LPS, Magna,
Magnaflux, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Nexus, Orgapack, Paktron,
Paslode, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Resopal, Rocol, Shakeproof,
Signode, Simco, Spit, Stero, Strapex, Teks, Tempil, Tenax,
Texwipe, Traulsen, Tri-Mark, Unipac, Valeron, Vulcan, Wilsonart
and Zip-Pak.

Environmental

The Company believes that its plants and
equipment are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain
compliance are not expected to materially affect the
Company’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
financial position or results of operations.

Various legislative and administrative
regulations concerning environmental issues have become
effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world
relating to manufacturing processes and the sale or use of
certain products. To date, such developments have not had a
substantial adverse impact on the Company’s sales or
earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to develop
and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new
and expanding marketing opportunities.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 47,500 persons
as of December 31, 2003 and considers its employee
relations to be excellent.

International

The Company’s international operations
include subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in 43
countries on six continents. These operations serve such markets
as construction, automotive, food retail and service, general
industrial, food and beverage, and others on a worldwide basis.
The Company’s international operations contributed
approximately 41% of operating revenues in 2003 and 37% in 2002.

Refer to pages 25 through 42 and 68 through
70 in the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent
in conducting business in foreign countries, including price
controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in
local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other
governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking Statements

This annual report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without
limitation, statements regarding availability of raw materials
and energy, the cost of compliance with environmental
regulations, the adequacy of internally generated funds, the
recoverability of the Company’s investment in mortgage
entities, equipment leases, the meeting of dividend payout
objectives, the impact of the adoption of FIN 46 on
investments in real estate development joint ventures,
Premark’s target operating margins, payments under
guarantees, the availability of additional financing, the
Company’s portion of future benefit payments related to
pension and other postretirement benefits and the Company’s
2004 forecasts. These statements are subject to certain risks,
uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual
results to differ materially from those anticipated, including,
without limitation, the risks described herein. Important
factors that may influence future results include (1) a
downturn in the construction, automotive, general industrial,
food retail and service, or real estate markets,
(2) deterioration in global and domestic business and
economic conditions, particularly in North America, the European
Community and Australia, (3) the unfavorable impact of
foreign currency fluctuations and prices of raw materials,
(4) an interruption in, or reduction in, introducing new
products into the Company’s product lines, (5) an
unfavorable environment for making acquisitions, domestic and



international, including adverse accounting or
regulatory requirements and market values of candidates, and
(6) unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings.

The risks covered here are not all inclusive. ITW
operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment
and therefore, new risk factors emerge from time to time. It is
not possible for management to predict all such risk factors,
nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on
ITW’s business or the extent to which any factor, or
combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as
a prediction of actual results.

ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested
parties. Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly
communicates with securities analysts and other investment
professionals, it is against ITW’s policy to disclose to
them any material non-public information or other confidential
commercial information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW
agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst
irrespective of the content of the statement or report.

Executive Officers

Executive Officers of the Company as of
February 27, 2004:

The executive officers of the Company serve at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for
Messrs. Callahan, Flood, Gresh and Ringler, each of the
foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various
elected executive capacities for more than five years.
Mr. Callahan was elected Senior Vice President in 2002. He
joined the Company in 1976 and has served the Company in various
human resource capacities over the last 27 years.
Mr. Flood was elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He
joined the Company in 1993 and has held various management
positions within the polymers, fluids and machined components
businesses and previously worked for the Company from 1976 to
1991. Mr. Gresh was elected Executive Vice President in
2000. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held various sales,
marketing and general management positions with the consumer
packaging businesses. Mr. Ringler was elected Vice Chairman
in 1999. He joined Premark in 1990 where he served as President
and Chief Operating Officer until 1996. He served as
Premark’s Chief Executive Officer and President from 1996
to 1997, after which he served as Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and President until Premark’s merger with
the Company in 1999.

Internet Information

Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, Code of Ethics for CEO and key
financial and accounting personnel, Charters of the



Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating and
Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge through the Company’s
website (www.itw.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after
the Company electronically files the material with, or furnishes
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2003, the Company
operated the following plants and office facilities, excluding
regional sales offices and warehouse facilities:

The principal plants outside of the U.S. are
in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands,
Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

The Company’s properties are primarily of
steel, brick or concrete construction and are maintained in good
operating condition. Productive capacity, in general, currently
exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible
based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from
time to time as required by increased demand. Additions to
capacity can be made within a reasonable period of time due to
the nature of the businesses.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

The Company has received notification from Region
V of the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(“USEPA”) of a number of alleged violations of the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976
(“RCRA”) at one of its manufacturing facilities in
Michigan. The alleged violations were based on an inspection
that took place in 2002. The USEPA presently seeks civil
penalties of $255,000. The Company believes that penalties in
this amount are unjustified and intends to defend itself if an
administrative proceeding is pursued by USEPA.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common
    Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
    Equity Securities

This information is incorporated by reference to
page 71 of the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders.



ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities (“FIN 46”) relative to its investments
in the mortgage entities. Refer to pages 54 and 55 of the
Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders for discussion
of the adoption of FIN 46. Effective January 1, 2002,
the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Refer to the
Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders for discussion
of the effect of the change in accounting principle.

ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 25 through 42 of the Company’s 2003 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 40 and 41 of the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

The financial statements and reports thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February 16, 2004 and
Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002, as found on
pages 43 through 70 and the supplementary data as found on
page 71 of the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the
participation of the Company’s Chairman & Chief
Executive Officer and Senior Vice President & Chief
Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of December 31, 2003.
Based on such evaluation, the Company’s Chairman &
Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President &
Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of
December 31, 2003, the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures were effective in timely alerting the
Company’s management to all information required to be
included in this Form 10-K and other Exchange Act filings.

In connection with the evaluation by management,
including the Company’s Chairman & Chief Executive
Officer and Senior Vice President & Chief Financial
Officer, no changes in the Company’s internal



control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) during the quarter ended
December 31, 2003 were identified that have materially
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

Information regarding the Directors of the
Company is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption “Election of Directors” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

Information regarding the Executive Officers of
the Company can be found in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K on page 9.

Information regarding the Audit Committee
Financial Expert is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Report of the Audit Committee” in
the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders.

Information regarding the identification of the
Audit Committee is incorporated by reference to the information
under the caption “Board of Directors and Its
Committees” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Information regarding the Company’s code of
ethics that applies to the Company’s Chairman &
Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President & Chief
Financial Officer, and key financial and accounting personnel is
incorporated by reference to the information under the caption
“Corporate Governance Policies and Practices” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the captions “Executive
Compensation,” “Director Compensation,”
“Company Performance” and “Report of the
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the captions “Ownership of ITW
Stock” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information”
in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the captions “Director
Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and
“Ownership of ITW Stock” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and
    Services

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the caption “Ratification of the
Appointment of Independent Public Accountants” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial Statements

The financial statements and reports thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated February 16, 2004 and
Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002 as found on
pages 43 through 70 and the supplementary data as found on
page 71 of the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to
Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

Arthur Andersen LLP audited the financial
statements for and as of the year ended December 31, 2001
included in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements are
incorporated by reference into Illinois Tool Works Inc.’s
previously filed registration statements on Form S-8 (File
No.’s 333-22035, 333-37068, 333-75767 and 333-69542),
Form S-4 (File No.’s 333-02671, 333-25471 and
333-88801) and Form S-3 (File No.’s 33-5780 and
333-70691) and Premark International, Inc.’s
previously filed registration statements on Form S-3 (File
No.’s 33-35137 and 333-62105). After reasonable
efforts, Illinois Tool Works Inc. has not been able to
obtain the consent of Arthur Andersen LLP to the incorporation
by reference of its audit report dated January 28, 2002
into the Company’s registration statements. As a result,
Arthur Andersen LLP may not have any liability under
Section 11(a) of the Securities Act as to any untrue
statement of a material fact contained in the financial
statements audited by Arthur Andersen LLP or any omission of a
material fact required to be stated therein. Accordingly,
investors may be unable to assert a claim against Arthur
Andersen LLP under Section 11(a) of the Securities Act with
respect to such financial statements.

(2) Financial Statement
    Schedules

Not applicable.

(3) Exhibits

(i) See
the Exhibit Index on pages 15 and 16 of this
Form 10-K.

(ii) Pursuant
to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the
Company has not filed with Exhibit 4 any debt instruments
for which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder
are less than 10% of the total assets of the Company and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31,
2003, with the exception of the agreements related to the
5 3/4% and 6 7/8% Notes, which are filed with
Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of the
agreements related to the debt instruments which have not been
filed with Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange
Commission upon request.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
quarter ended December 31, 2003; however, the Company
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission a Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 16, 2003.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 9th day of March
2004.

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

By

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL

W. James Farrell

Chairman and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on this 9th day of March 2004.

Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James
Farrell to sign the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K and amendments thereto on behalf of the
above-named directors of the registrant have been filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as part of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K (Exhibit 24).



EXHIBIT INDEX

ANNUAL REPORT on FORM 10-K




16