10-K405


c67784e10-k405.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report for Illinois Tool Works Inc.


________________________________________________________________________________

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

For
the transition period from

to

Commission file number 1-4797

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(847) 724-7500

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
[ X ]

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 12, 2002, was
approximately $18,600,000,000.

Shares
of Common Stock outstanding at March 12,
2002 — 305,895,308.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

2001 Annual Report to Stockholders

Parts I, II, IV

Proxy Statement dated March 21, 2002 for
	Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 10, 2002

Part III



PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company”
or “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in
1915. The Company is a worldwide manufacturer of highly
engineered products and specialty systems.

The Company has approximately 600 operations in
43 countries which are aggregated and organized for internal
reporting purposes into the following five continuing segments:

Engineered Products — North
America:

Businesses that are located
in North America and the manufacture short lead-time plastic and
metal components and fasteners, and specialty products such as
polymers, fluid products and resealable packaging.

Engineered Products —
International:

Businesses that are
located outside North America and that manufacture short
lead-time plastic and metal components and fasteners, and
specialty products such as polymers, fluid products and
electronic component packaging.

Specialty Systems — North
America:

Businesses that are located
in North America and that produce longer lead-time machinery and
related consumables, and specialty equipment for applications
such as food service and industrial finishing.

Specialty Systems —
International:

Businesses that are
located outside North America and that manufacture longer
lead-time machinery and related consumables, and specialty
equipment for applications such as food service and industrial
finishing.

Leasing &
Investments:

Businesses that make
opportunistic investments in mortgage-related assets, leveraged
and direct financing leases of aircraft and other equipment,
properties and property developments, affordable housing and a
venture capital fund.

In November 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of
ITW merged with Premark International, Inc.
(“Premark”), a commercial manufacturer of food
equipment and laminate products. Shareholders of Premark
received .8081 shares of ITW common stock in exchange for each
share of Premark common stock outstanding. A total of 49,781,665
of ITW common shares were issued to the former Premark
shareholders in connection with the merger.

The merger was accounted for under the
pooling-of-interests accounting method. Accordingly, ITW’s
historical financial statements for periods prior to the merger
have been restated to include the results of operations,
financial position and cash flows of Premark as though the
companies had been combined during such periods.

In December 2001, the Company’s Board of
Directors authorized the divestiture of the Consumer Products
segment. These businesses became part of ITW in 1999 with the
Premark merger. The segment is comprised of the following
businesses: Precor specialty exercise equipment, West Bend
appliances and premium cookware, and Florida Tile ceramic tile.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been
restated for all periods to present these businesses as
discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 30. The Company intends to divest these
businesses through sale transactions in 2002 and does not expect
to incur a loss on their disposal.

During the five-year period ending
December 31, 2001, the Company acquired and disposed of
numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.

Current Year Developments

Refer to pages 25 through 33,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, in the Company’s
2001 Annual Report to Stockholders.


Financial Information about Segments and
Markets

Segment and geographic data are included on
pages 25 through 29 and 51 through 52 of the Company’s
2001 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The principal markets served by the
Company’s four continuing manufacturing segments are as
follows:

Operating results of the segments are described
on pages 25 through 29 and 51 through 52 of the
Company’s 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Company’s manufacturing businesses
distribute their products directly to industrial manufacturers
and through independent distributors.

Backlog

Backlog generally is not considered a significant
factor in the Company’s businesses as relatively short
delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic
of most of its products. Backlog by continuing manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 is summarized as
follows:

Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond
calendar year 2002 were not material in any manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2001.

The information set forth below is applicable to
all industry segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:

Competition

The Company’s global competitive environment
is complex because of the wide diversity of products the Company
manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the
product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others.



The Company is a leading producer of plastic,
metal and laminate components and fasteners; polymers and fluid
products; tooling for specialty applications; welding products;
packaging machinery and related consumables; food service
equipment; and industrial finishing equipment.

Raw Materials

The Company uses raw materials of various types,
primarily metals, plastics and paper that are available from
numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and
energy has not resulted in any significant business
interruptions or other major problems, nor are any such problems
anticipated.

Research and Development

The Company’s growth has resulted from
developing new and improved products, broadening the application
of established products, continuing efforts to improve and
develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce
customers’ costs by eliminating steps in their
manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts in an
assembly, or by improving the quality of customers’
assembled products. Typically, the development of such products
is accomplished by working closely with customers on specific
applications. Identifiable research and development costs are
set forth on page 39 of the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

The Company owns approximately 3,000 unexpired
United States patents covering articles, methods and machines.
Many counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in
various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 1,200 applications for patents pending in the
United States Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any
patent will be issued. The Company maintains an active patent
department for the administration of patents and processing of
patent applications.

The Company believes that many of its patents are
valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its
leadership in the markets it serves to engineering capability;
manufacturing techniques, skills and efficiency; marketing and
sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to
its customers.

Trademarks

Many of the Company’s products are sold
under various trademarks owned or licensed by the Company. Among
the most significant are: ITW, Apex, Bernard, Buildex,
Chemtronics, Corex, Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec,
Fastex, Foster, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, LPS, Magna, Magnaflux,
Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Paktron, Paslode, Precor, Ramset,
Ransburg, Red Head, Rocol, Shakeproof, Signode, Stero, Teks,
Tempil, Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Tri-Mark, Vulcan, West Bend,
Wilsonart, and Zip-Pak.

Environmental

The Company believes that its plants and
equipment are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain
compliance are not expected to materially affect the
Company’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
financial position or results of operations.

Various legislative and administrative
regulations concerning environmental issues have become
effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world
relating to manufacturing processes, and the sale or use of
certain products. To date, such developments have not had a
substantial adverse impact on the Company’s sales or
earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to develop
and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new
and expanding marketing opportunities.

Employees

The Company employed approximately
52,000 persons as of December 31, 2001 and considers
its employee relations to be excellent.



International

The Company’s international operations
include subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in 42
countries on six continents. These operations serve such markets
as construction, automotive, food retail and service, general
industrial, and others on a worldwide basis. The Company’s
international operations contributed approximately 37% of
operating revenues in 2001 and 36% in 2000.

Refer to pages 25 through 33 and 51 through 52 in
the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent
in conducting business in foreign countries, including price
controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in
local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other
governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without
limitation, statements regarding the availability of raw
materials and energy, the cost of compliance with environmental
regulations, adequacy of internally generated funds, the
recoverability of the Company’s investment in
mortgage-related assets, the meeting of dividend payout
objectives, the profitable divestiture of the Consumer Products
segment in 2002, Premark’s target operating margins, the
availability of additional financing and the Company’s 2002
forecasts. These statements are subject to certain risks,
uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual
results to differ materially from those anticipated, including,
without limitation, the risks described herein. Important
factors that may influence future results include (1) a
further downturn in the construction, automotive, general
industrial, food retail and service, or real estate markets,
(2) further deterioration in global and domestic business
and economic conditions, particularly in North America, Europe
and Australia, (3) an interruption in, or reduction in,
introducing new products into the Company’s product line,
(4) an unfavorable environment for making acquisitions or
dispositions, domestic and international, including adverse
accounting or regulatory requirements and market value of
candidates, and (5) uncertainties arising from the
aftermath of the September 11th tragedy.

Executive Officers

Executive Officers of the Company as of
March 15, 2002:

The executive officers of the Company serve at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for
Messrs. Flood, Gresh, Hansen, Ringler, and Sutherland, each
of the foregoing officers has been employed by



the Company in various elected executive
capacities for more than five years. Mr. Flood was elected
Executive Vice President in 2000. He joined the Company in 1976
and has held various management positions within the polymers,
fluids and machined components businesses. Mr. Gresh was
elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He joined the Company
in 1989 and has held various sales, marketing and general
management positions with the consumer packaging businesses. Mr.
Hansen was elected Executive Vice President in 1998. He joined
the Company in 1980 and has held various management positions
within the Company’s automotive metal fasteners and
components businesses. Mr. Ringler was elected Vice
Chairman in 1999. He joined Premark International in 1990 where
he served as President and Chief Operating Officer until May
1996. He served as Premark International’s Chief Executive
Officer and President from May 1996 to October 1997, after which
he served as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and
President until Premark International’s merger with the
Company in November 1999. Mr. Sutherland was elected Senior
Vice President in 1998. He joined the Company in 1993 after
serving as a senior tax manager with Ernst & Young and has
served the Company in various capacities, most recently as Vice
President of Leasing and Investments.

ITEM 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2001 the Company operated
the following plants and office facilities, excluding regional
sales offices and warehouse facilities:

The principal plants outside of the U.S. are in
Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

The Company’s properties are primarily of
steel, brick or concrete construction and are maintained in good
operating condition. Productive capacity, in general, currently
exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible
based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from
time to time as required by increased demand. Additions to
capacity can be made within a reasonable period of time due to
the nature of the businesses.

ITEM 3.

Legal
Proceedings

The United States Environmental Protection Agency
has issued a proposed fine of $1,259,000 against one of the
Company’s businesses for alleged violation of hazardous
waste regulations issued under the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976. The proposed fine principally relates to
activities at a facility in Kansas City that took place prior to
ITW’s acquisition of the business in July 1998. The Company
never operated at the Kansas City facility. The former owners of
the business have indemnified ITW with respect to the matter,
insofar as it relates to pre-acquisition activities. ITW and the
former owners are in current negotiations with The United States
Environmental Protection Agency regarding the amount of the fine.



ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to
a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for the
Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to
page 53 of the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial
Data

This information is incorporated by reference to
page 54 and 55 of the Company’s 2001 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 25 through 33 of the Company’s 2001 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 31 and 32 of the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

ITEM 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and report thereon of
Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002, as found on
pages 34 through 52 and the supplementary data found on
page 53 of the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

The report of Ernst & Young LLP dated
January 24, 2000 on the financial statements of Premark
International, Inc. is included as Exhibit 13(b).

ITEM 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Company

Information regarding the Directors of the
Company is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption “Election of Directors” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

Information regarding the Executive Officers of
the Company can be found in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K on pages 4 and 5.

Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



ITEM 11.

Executive
Compensation

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the caption “Executive
Compensation” and “Director Compensation” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the caption “Ownership of ITW
Stock” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2002
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

Additional information is incorporated by
reference to the information under the captions “Director
Compensation” and “Executive Compensation” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 14.

Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial
Statements

The financial statements and report thereon of
Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002 as found on
pages 34 through 52 and the supplementary data found on page 53
of the Company’s 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders, are
incorporated by reference.

The report of Ernst & Young LLP dated
January 24, 2000 on the financial statements of Premark
International, Inc. is included as Exhibit 13(b).

(2) Exhibits

(i)  See the Exhibit Index on
pages 9 and 10 of this Form 10-K.

(ii) Pursuant to Regulation S-K,
Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not filed with
Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount
of securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis as of December 31, 2001, with the
exception of the agreements related to the 5 3/4% and
6 7/8% Notes, which are filed with Exhibit 4. The
Company agrees to furnish a copy of the agreements related to
the debt instruments which have not been filed with
Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
request.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K have been filed
during the three months ended December 31, 2001.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 21st day of
March 2002.

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

By

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL

W. James Farrell

Chairman and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on this 21st day of March 2002.

Original powers of attorney authorizing
W. James Farrell to sign this Annual Report on
Form 10-K and amendments thereto on behalf of the
above-named directors of the registrant have been filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as part of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K (Exhibit 24).



EXHIBIT INDEX

ANNUAL REPORT on FORM 10-K




10