10-K


c75093e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

For
the transition period from

to

Commission file number 1-4797

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(847) 724-7500

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
[ X ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

X

No

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of February 28, 2003,
was approximately $14,600,000,000, based on the New York Stock
Exchange closing sales price as of February 28, 2003.

Shares
of Common Stock outstanding at February 28,
2003 — 307,418,859.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

2002 Annual Report to Stockholders

Parts I, II, IV

2003 Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders to be held on May 9, 2003

Parts II and III



PART I

ITEM
1.

Business

General

Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company”
or “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in
1915. The Company is a worldwide manufacturer of highly
engineered products and specialty systems.

The Company has approximately 600 operations in
44 countries which are aggregated and organized for internal
reporting purposes into the following five segments:

Engineered Products — North
America:

Businesses in this segment
are located in North America and manufacture a variety of short
lead-time plastic and metal components and fasteners, as well as
specialty products for a diverse customer base. These
commercially oriented, value-added products become part of the
customers’ products and typically are manufactured and
delivered in a period of time of less than 30 days. In the
plastic and metal components and fasteners category, product
examples include cordless nailing systems for new housing and
renovation projects, plastic interior door handles for
automobiles and light trucks, and plastic shelving supports for
household appliances. In the specialty products category,
product examples include reclosable packaging for consumer food
applications, specialty swabs and wipes for clean room usage,
and specialty adhesives for household purposes.

Engineered Products —
International:

Businesses in this
segment are located outside North America and manufacture a
variety of short lead-time plastic and metal components and
fasteners, as well as specialty products for a diverse customer
base. These commercially oriented, value-added products become
part of the customers’ products and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a period of time of less than
30 days. In the plastic and metal components and fastener
category, products are similar to those made in North America
and serve the construction, automotive and general industrial
sectors. In the specialty products category, a product example
includes electronic component packaging trays used for the
storage, shipment and manufacturing insertion of electronic
components and microchips.

Specialty Systems — North
America:

Businesses in this segment
are located in North America and design and manufacture longer
lead-time machinery and related consumables, as well as
specialty equipment for a diverse customer base. These
commercially oriented value-added products become part of the
customers’ production process and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a period of time of more than
30 days. In the machinery and related consumables category,
examples of products include industrial packaging equipment and
plastic and steel strap for the bundling and shipment of a
variety products for customers in numerous end markets, welding
equipment and consumables for a variety of end market users, and
equipment and consumables that multi-pack cans and bottles for
the food and beverage industry. In the specialty equipment
category, product examples include commercial food equipment
such as dishwashers, refrigerators and specialty scales for use
by restaurants and supermarkets, and paint spray equipment for a
variety of general industrial applications.

Specialty Systems —
International:

Businesses in this
segment are located outside North America and design and
manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables,
as well as specialty equipment for a diverse customer base.
These commercially oriented, value-added products become part of
the customers’ production process and typically are
manufactured and delivered in a period of time of more than
30 days. In the machinery and related consumables category,
products are similar to those made in North America and include
numerous equipment and consumables for use by the customers
serving the general industrial and food and beverage sectors. In
the specialty equipment category, products are used by food
equipment and paint spray equipment customers.

Leasing &
Investments:

Businesses in this
segment make opportunistic investments in mortgage-related
assets, leveraged and direct financing leases of
telecommunications, aircraft and other equipment, properties and
property developments, affordable housing and a venture capital
fund. As a result of the Company’s strong


cash flow, the Company has historically had
excess funds to make opportunistic investments that meet the
Company’s desired financial returns. The Company’s
significant investments are described below:

1)

Mortgage
    investments

— In 1995, 1996
    and 1997, the Company invested a total of $300 million in
    three separate mortgage investments. Although it acquired
    commercial mortgage loans and real estate and issued nonrecourse
    notes payable in these transactions, the Company also entered
    into swap and related agreements with the seller of the assets
    to mitigate its real estate and credit risks relative to the
    mortgage loans and real estate and eliminate its interest rate
    risk relative to the nonrecourse notes payable. As a result of
    these transactions, the Company will receive cash of
    approximately $26 million per year and a portion of the
    disposition proceeds in the tenth year of each transaction, by
    which time all of the assets are expected to be sold. In
    addition, the swap counterparty will repay the principal and
    interest on the Company’s nonrecourse notes payable. See
    the Leasing & Investments section of the Management’s
    Discussion & Analysis on pages 22 through 25 of the
    Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders for further
    discussion of these mortgage investments.

2)

Leases of
    equipment

— The Company has
    entered into numerous leases of equipment used in the
    telecommunications and transportation industries. These leases
    are accounted for as leveraged or direct financing leases. See
    the Investments note on pages 42 through 44 of the
    Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders for further
    discussion of these leases.

3)

Affordable housing limited
    partnerships

— The Company
    has entered into several affordable housing limited partnerships
    primarily to receive tax benefits in the form of tax credits and
    tax deductions from operating losses. See the Investments note
    on pages 42 through 44 of the Company’s Annual Report to
    Stockholders for further discussion of these investments.

A key element of the Company’s business
strategy is its continuous 80/20 simplification process. The
basic concept of this 80/20 process is to focus on what’s
most important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of
the value) and spend less time and resources on the less
important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the
value). The Company’s operations use this 80/20 process to
simply and focus on the keys parts of their business, and reduce
complexity that may disguise what is truly important. Each of
the Company’s 600 operations utilize the 80/20 process in
all aspects of their business. Common applications of the 80/20
process include:

The result of the application of this 80/20
simplification process is that the Company’s operating and
financial performance is improved. These 80/20 efforts often
result in restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve
margins.

In November 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of
ITW merged with Premark International, Inc.
(“Premark”), a commercial manufacturer of food
equipment and laminate products. Shareholders of Premark
received .8081 shares of ITW common stock in exchange for each
share of Premark common stock outstanding. A total of 49,781,665
of ITW common stock shares were issued to the former Premark
shareholders in connection with the merger. The merger was
accounted for under the pooling-of-interests accounting method.
Accordingly, ITW’s historical financial statements for
periods prior to the merger have been restated to include the
results of operations, financial position and cash flows of
Premark as though the companies had been combined during such
periods.



In December 2001, the Company’s Board of
Directors authorized the divestiture of the Consumer Products
segment. These businesses were acquired by ITW in 1999 as part
of the Premark merger. Subsequent to the Premark merger, the
Company determined that the consumer characteristics of the
businesses in the Consumer Products segment were not a good
long-term fit with the Company’s other industrial-focused
businesses. Businesses in this segment are located primarily in
North America and manufacture household products that are used
by consumers, including Precor specialty exercise equipment,
West Bend small appliances and premium cookware, and Florida
Tile ceramic tile. On October 31, 2002 the sales of Precor
and West Bend were completed, resulting in net cash proceeds of
$207.9 million. The Company is actively marketing and
intends to dispose of Florida Tile through a sale transaction in
2003. The Company’s estimated net gain on disposal of the
segment is as follows:

The estimated after tax net gain of
$2.4 million on the segment has been deferred at
December 31, 2002 pending the completion of the sale of
Florida Tile in 2003.

During the five-year period ending
December 31, 2002, the Company acquired and disposed of
numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.

Current Year Developments

Refer to pages 20 through 31,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, in the Company’s
2002 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Financial Information about Segments and
Markets

Segment and geographic data are included on
pages 20 through 28 and 52 through 54 of the Company’s
2002 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The principal markets served by the
Company’s four continuing manufacturing segments are as
follows:

Operating results of the segments are described
on pages 20 through 28 and 52 through 54 of the
Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders.



The Company’s manufacturing businesses
primarily distribute their products directly to industrial
manufacturers and through independent distributors.

Backlog

Backlog generally is not considered a significant
factor in the Company’s businesses as relatively short
delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic
of most of its products. Backlog by continuing manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 is summarized as
follows:

Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond
calendar year 2003 were not material in any manufacturing
segment as of December 31, 2002.

The information set forth below is applicable to
all industry segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:

Competition

The Company’s global competitive environment
is complex because of the wide diversity of products the Company
manufactures and the many markets it serves. Depending on the
product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others.

The Company is a leading producer of plastic and
metal components and fasteners; laminate products; polymers and
fluid products; welding products; packaging machinery and
related consumables; food service equipment; and industrial
finishing equipment.

Raw Materials

The Company uses raw materials of various types,
primarily metals, plastics and paper that are available from
numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and
energy has not resulted in any significant business
interruptions or other major problems, nor are any such problems
anticipated.

Research and Development

The Company’s growth has resulted from
developing new and improved products, broadening the application
of established products, continuing efforts to improve and
develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce
customers’ costs by eliminating steps in their
manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts in an
assembly, or by improving the quality of customers’
assembled products. Typically, the development of such products
is accomplished by working closely with customers on specific
applications. Identifiable research and development costs are
set forth on page 38 of the Company’s 2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

The Company owns approximately 2,400 unexpired
United States patents covering articles, methods and machines.
Many counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in
various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 900 applications for patents pending in the United
States Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent
will be issued. The Company maintains an active patent
department for the administration of patents and processing of
patent applications.

The Company believes that many of its patents are
valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its
leadership in the markets it serves to engineering capability;
manufacturing techniques, skills and efficiency; marketing and
sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to
its customers. The



expiration of any one of the Company’s
patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s
results of operations or financial position.

Trademarks

Many of the Company’s products are sold
under various owned or licensed trademarks, which are important
to the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Apex,
Bernard, Buildex, Chemtronics, Corex, Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss,
Dymon, Dynatec, Fastex, Foster, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, LPS,
Magna, Magnaflux, Miller, Mima, Minigrip, Paktron, Paslode,
Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Rocol, Shakeproof, Signode, Stero,
Teks, Tempil, Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Tri-Mark, Vulcan,
Wilsonart and Zip-Pak.

Environmental

The Company believes that its plants and
equipment are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain
compliance are not expected to materially affect the
Company’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
financial position or results of operations.

Various legislative and administrative
regulations concerning environmental issues have become
effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world
relating to manufacturing processes, and the sale or use of
certain products. To date, such developments have not had a
substantial adverse impact on the Company’s sales or
earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to develop
and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new
and expanding marketing opportunities.

Employees

The Company employed approximately 48,700 persons
as of December 31, 2002 and considers its employee
relations to be excellent.

International

The Company’s international operations
include subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees in
43 countries on six continents. These operations serve such
markets as construction, automotive, food retail and service,
general industrial, and others on a worldwide basis. The
Company’s international operations contributed
approximately 37% of operating revenues in 2002 and in 2001.

Refer to pages 20 through 31 and 52 through
54 in the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent
in conducting business in foreign countries, including price
controls, exchange controls, limitations on participation in
local enterprises, nationalization, expropriation and other
governmental action, and changes in currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking Statements

This annual report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without
limitation, statements regarding availability of raw materials
and energy, the cost of compliance with environmental
regulations, the adequacy of internally generated funds, the
recoverability of the Company’s investment in
mortgage-related assets, the meeting of dividend payout
objectives, the divestiture of the Florida Tile business in
2003, Premark’s target operating margins, payments under
guarantees, the availability of additional financing and the
Company’s 2003 forecasts. These statements are subject to
certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could
cause actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated, including, without limitation, the risks described
herein. Important factors that may influence future results
include (1) a downturn in the construction, automotive,
general industrial, food retail and service, or real estate
markets, (2) deterioration in global and domestic business
and economic conditions, particularly in North America, the
European Community and Australia, (3) the unfavorable
impact of foreign currency fluctuations, (4) an
interruption in, or reduction in, introducing new products into
the Company’s product lines, (5) a continuing
unfavorable environment for



making acquisitions or dispositions, domestic and
international, including adverse accounting or regulatory
requirements and market values of candidates, and
(6) unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings.

Executive Officers

Executive Officers of the Company as of
February 28, 2003:

The executive officers of the Company serve at
the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except for
Messrs. Callahan, Flood, Gresh, and Ringler, each of the
foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various
elected executive capacities for more than five years.
Mr. Callahan was elected Senior Vice President in 2002. He
joined the Company in 1976 and has served the Company in various
human resource capacities over the last 26 years.
Mr. Flood was elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He
joined the Company in 1993 and has held various management
positions within the polymers, fluids and machined components
businesses and previously worked for the company from 1976 to
1991. Mr. Gresh was elected Executive Vice President in
2000. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held various sales,
marketing and general management positions with the consumer
packaging businesses. Mr. Ringler was elected Vice Chairman
in 1999. He joined Premark in 1990 where he served as President
and Chief Operating Officer until May 1996. He served as
Premark’s Chief Executive Officer and President from May
1996 to October 1997, after which he served as Chairman of the
Board, Chief Executive Officer and President until
Premark’s merger with the Company in November 1999.

Internet Information

Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
through the Company’s website (www.itw.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files
the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.



ITEM 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2002 the Company operated
the following plants and office facilities, excluding regional
sales offices and warehouse facilities:

The principal plants outside of the U.S. are
in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands,
Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

The Company’s properties are primarily of
steel, brick or concrete construction and are maintained in good
operating condition. Productive capacity, in general, currently
exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible
based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from
time to time as required by increased demand. Additions to
capacity can be made within a reasonable period of time due to
the nature of the businesses.

ITEM 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Not applicable.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to
a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for the
Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to
page 55 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to
Stockholders. Information regarding the securities authorized
for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



ITEM 6.

Selected Financial
Data

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Refer to
pages 44 through 46 of the Company’s 2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders for discussion of the effect of the
change in accounting principle.

ITEM 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 20 through 31 of the Company’s 2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

This information is incorporated by reference to
pages 30 and 31 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The financial statements and reports thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated January 27, 2003,
and Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002, as
found on pages 32 through 54 and the supplementary
data found on page 55 of the Company’s 2002 Annual
Report to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

ITEM 9.

Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

On May 10, 2002, the Company filed a
Form 8-K confirming the dismissal of the Company’s
independent auditors, Arthur Andersen LLP, and the engagement of
the services of Deloitte & Touche LLP as its new independent
auditors.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding the Directors of the
Company is incorporated by reference to the information under
the caption “Election of Directors” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

Information regarding the Executive Officers of
the Company can be found in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K on page 6.



Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive
Compensation

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the caption “Executive
Compensation,” “Director Compensation,”
“Company Performance” and “Report of the
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

This information is incorporated by reference to
the information under the caption “Ownership of
ITW Stock” and “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions

Additional information is incorporated by
reference to the information under the captions “Director
Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and
“Ownership of ITW Stock” in the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 14.

Controls and
Procedures

Based on their most recent evaluation, which was
completed within 90 days of the filing of this
Form 10-K, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
believe the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) are
effective in timely alerting the Company’s management to
material information required to be included in this
Form 10-K and other Exchange Act filings.

There were no significant changes in the
Company’s internal controls or other factors that could
significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of
their evaluation and there were no significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses which required corrective actions.

ITEM 15.

Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial
Statements

The financial statements and reports thereon of
Deloitte & Touche LLP dated January 27, 2003
and Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 28, 2002 as
found on pages 32 through 54 and the supplementary data
found on page 55 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report
to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.

(2) Financial
Statement Schedules

None.

(3) Exhibits

(i)  See the Exhibit Index on
pages 14 and 15 of this Form 10-K.

(ii) Pursuant to Regulation S-K,
Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not filed with
Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount
of securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis as of December 31, 2002, with the



exception of the agreements related to the
5 3/4% and 6 7/8% Notes, which are filed with
Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of the
agreements related to the debt instruments which have not been
filed with Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange
Commission upon request.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K have been filed
during the three months ended December 31, 2002.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 3rd day of
March 2003.

ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

By

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL

W. James Farrell

Chairman and Chief

Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on this 3rd day of March 2003.

Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James
Farrell to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named directors of the
registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Exhibit 24).



CERTIFICATION

Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive
Officer

Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to
Exchange Act Filings

I, W. James Farrell, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
    officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
    evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
    committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
    performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
    officer and I have indicated in this annual report whether there
    were significant changes in internal controls or in other
    factors that could significantly affect internal controls
    subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
    any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
    and material weaknesses.

Dated: March 3, 2003

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL

W. James Farrell,

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



CERTIFICATION

Statement Under Oath of Principal Financial
Officer

Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to
Exchange Act Filings

I, Jon C. Kinney, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
    officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
    evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
    committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
    performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or
    operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the
    registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
    officer and I have indicated in this annual report whether there
    were significant changes in internal controls or in other
    factors that could significantly affect internal controls
    subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
    any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
    and material weaknesses.

Dated: March 3, 2003

/s/ JON C. KINNEY

Jon C. Kinney, Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer



EXHIBIT INDEX

ANNUAL REPORT on FORM 10-K





Table of Contents