
10-K405
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K



                         Commission file number 1-4797

                            ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 724-7500

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                            Yes  X           No  ___

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of March 14, 2000, was approximately $12,400,000,000.

     Shares of Common Stock outstanding at March 14, 2000 -- 300,678,897.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1999 Annual Report to Stockholders...............................Parts I, II, IV

Proxy Statement dated March 27, 2000, for Annual Meeting of Stockholders
  to be held on May 12, 2000............................................Part III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the "Company" or "ITW") was founded in 1912 and
incorporated in 1915. The Company manufactures and markets a variety of products
and systems that provide specific, problem-solving solutions for a diverse
customer base worldwide. The Company has more than 500 operations in 40
countries. The Company's business units are divided into six segments:
Engineered Products-North America, Engineered Products-International, Specialty
Systems-North America, Specialty Systems-International, Consumer Products, and
Leasing and Investments. Businesses in the Engineered Products-North America
segment are located in North America and manufacture short lead-time components
and fasteners, and specialty products such as adhesives, resealable packaging
and electronic component packaging. Businesses in the Engineered
Products-International segment are located outside North America and manufacture
short lead-time components and fasteners, and specialty products such as
electronic component packaging and adhesives. Businesses in the Specialty
Systems-North America segment are located in North America and produce longer
lead-time machinery and related consumables, and specialty equipment for
applications such as food service and industrial spray coating. Businesses in
the Specialty Systems-International segment are located outside North America
and manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related consumables, and
specialty equipment for food service and industrial spray coating. Businesses in
the Consumer Products segment are located primarily in North America and
manufacture household products which are used by consumers, including small
electric appliances, physical fitness equipment and ceramic tile. The Leasing
and Investment segment makes opportunistic investments in mortgage-related
assets, leveraged and direct financing leases of equipment, properties and
property developments, and affordable housing.

     On November 23, 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITW merged with Premark
International, Inc. ("Premark"), a commercial manufacturer of food equipment and
decorative products. Shareholders of Premark received .8081 shares of ITW common
stock in exchange for each share of Premark common stock outstanding. A total of
49,781,665 of ITW common shares were issued to the former Premark shareholders
in connection with the merger. The merger was accounted for under the
pooling-of-interests accounting method and accordingly, ITW's historical
financial statements for periods prior to the merger have been restated to
include the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Premark,
as though the companies had been combined during such periods.

     During the five-year period ending December 31, 1999, the Company acquired
and disposed of numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.

CURRENT YEAR DEVELOPMENTS

     Refer to pages 21 through 26, Management's Discussion and Analysis, in the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

     Segment and geographic data are included on pages 21 through 23 and 42
through 44 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.


     The principal markets served by the Company's five manufacturing segments
are as follows:



     Operating results of the segments are described on pages 21 through 23 and
42 through 44 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

     Most of the Company's businesses distribute their products directly to
industrial manufacturers and through independent distributors.

BACKLOG

     Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company's
businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are
characteristic of many of its products.

     Backlog by manufacturing segment as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 is
summarized as follows:



     Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2000 were not
material in any manufacturing segment as of December 31, 1999.

     The information set forth below is applicable to all industry segments of
the Company unless otherwise noted:

COMPETITION

     The Company's global competitive environment is complex because of the wide
diversity of products the Company manufactures and the markets it serves.
Depending on the product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others, some of which may be the Company's own licensees.

     The Company is a leading producer of plastic, metal and laminate
components, fasteners and assemblies; industrial fluids and adhesives; tooling
for specialty applications; welding products; packaging machinery and related
consumables; food service equipment; and industrial spray coating equipment.



RAW MATERIALS

     The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily metals and
plastics that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability
of materials and energy has not resulted in any business interruptions or other
major problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The Company's growth has resulted from developing new and improved
products, broadening the application of established products, continuing efforts
to improve and develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce customers' costs by
eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts
in an assembly, or by improving the quality of customers' assembled products.
Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by working closely
with customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and development
costs are set forth on page 31 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

     The Company owns approximately 2,500 unexpired United States patents
covering articles, methods and machines. Many counterparts of these patents have
also been obtained in various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 550 applications for patents pending in the United States Patent
Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be issued. The Company
maintains an active patent department for the administration of patents and
processing of patent applications.

     The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and important.
Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in the markets it serves to
engineering capability; manufacturing techniques, skills and efficiency;
marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to
its customers.

TRADEMARKS

     Many of the Company's products are sold under various trademarks owned or
licensed by the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Apex, Buildex,
Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Fastex, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, Magnaflux, Miller,
Minigrip, Paktron, Paslode, Precor, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Shakeproof,
Signode, Teks, Tenax, West Bend, Wilsonart, and Zip-Pak.

ENVIRONMENTAL

     The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to
maintain compliance are not expected to materially affect the Company's capital
expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations.

     Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental
issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the
world relating to manufacturing processes, and the sale or use of certain
products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact
on the Company's sales or earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to
develop and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new and
expanding marketing opportunities.

EMPLOYEES

     The Company employed approximately 52,800 persons as of December 31, 1999
and considers its employee relations to be excellent.

INTERNATIONAL

     The Company's international operations include subsidiaries, joint ventures
and licensees in 39 countries on six continents. These operations serve such
markets as construction, food and retail service, general industrial,
automotive, and others on a worldwide basis. The Company's international
subsidiaries contributed approximately 34% of operating revenues in 1999 and 33%
in 1998.



     Refer to pages 21 through 24 and 42 through 44 in the Company's 1999 Annual
Report to Stockholders for additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting
business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls,
limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization,
expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange
rates.

YEAR 2000

     Refer to page 26 in the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders for
discussion of the effect on the Company of the year 2000 computer issue.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Refer to page 26 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders for
information on the risks associated with forward-looking statements within this
document.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     Executive Officers of the Company as of March 27, 2000:



     Except for Messrs. Hansen, Kinney, Martin, Ringler, Speer, Sutherland, and
Zentmeyer, each of the foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in
various elected executive capacities for more than five years. The executive
officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Mr.
Hansen joined the Company in 1980 and has held various management positions
within the Company's automotive metal fasteners and components businesses. Mr.
Kinney joined the Company in 1973 and has served as Vice President and
Controller, Operations, and Group Controller of several of the Company's
businesses. Mr. Martin joined the Company in 1991 and has held several
management positions in the welding businesses. Mr. Ringler joined Premark
International in 1990 where he served as President and Chief Operating Officer
until May 1996. He served as Premark International's Chief Executive Officer and
President from May 1996 to October 1997, after which he served as Chairman of
the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President until Premark International's
merger with the Company in November 1999. Mr. Speer joined the Company in 1978
and has held various sales, marketing and general management positions within
the construction businesses. Mr. Sutherland joined the Company in 1993 after
serving as a senior tax manager with Ernst & Young and has served the Company in
various capacities, most recently as Vice President of Leasing and Investments.



Mr. Zentmeyer joined Signode Corporation (which was acquired by the Company in
1986) in 1968 and has held various management positions in the industrial
packaging businesses.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     As of December 31, 1999 the Company operated the following plants and
office facilities, excluding regional sales offices and warehouse facilities:



     The principal plants outside of the U.S. are in Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom.

     The Company's properties are primarily of steel, brick or concrete
construction and are maintained in good operating condition. Productive
capacity, in general, currently exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are
somewhat flexible based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from time to time as
required by increased demand. Additions to capacity can be made within a
reasonable period of time due to the nature of the businesses.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Not applicable.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The Company held a Special Meeting of Stockholders on November 23, 1999. At
the meeting, the following item was submitted to a vote of stockholders:

     The proposal to issue the Company's common stock as stated in the Proxy
Statement dated October 12, 1999 pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger
among Premark International, Inc., Illinois Tool Works Inc. and CS Merger Sub
Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ITW, dated as of September 9, 1999. The
proposal was approved with 197,508,363 votes for, 4,329,793 votes against and
574,374 votes withheld.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

     This information is incorporated by reference to page 45 of the Company's
1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



     Refer to pages 30 and 31 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders for discussion of the effect of the Premark Merger.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 21 through 26 of the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 25 and 26 of the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 31, 2000, as found on pages 27 through 44 and the supplementary data
found on page 45 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, are
incorporated by reference.

     The report of Ernst & Young LLP dated January 24, 2000 on the financial
statements of Premark International, Inc. is included as Exhibit 13(b).

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Information regarding the Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption "Election of Directors" in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

     Information regarding the Executive Officers of the Company can be found in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on pages 4 and 5.



ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Executive Compensation" and "Directors Compensation" in the Company's
Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Ownership of ITW Stock" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2000
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Additional information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions "Director Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)(1) Financial Statements

     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 31, 2000 as found on pages 27 through 44 and the supplementary data
found on page 45 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, are
incorporated by reference.

     The report of Ernst & Young LLP dated January 24, 2000 on the financial
statements of Premark International, Inc. is included as Exhibit 13(b).

  (2) Exhibits

     (i) See the Exhibit Index on page 10 of this Form 10-K.

     (ii) Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not
filed with Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount of
securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the total assets of the
Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 1999,
with the exception of the agreements related to the 5 7/8%, 5 3/4%, 6 7/8% and
10 1/2% Notes, which are filed with Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to furnish a
copy of the agreements related to the debt instruments which have not been filed
with Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the three months
ended December 31, 1999.

     (1) Form 8-K, Current Report, dated November 11, 1999 which included Item
         5; Item 7; Letter of Understanding between James M. Ringler and
         Illinois Tool Works Inc.; Executive Noncompetition Agreement between
         James M. Ringler and Illinois Tool Works Inc.; Letter of Understanding
         between William Reeb and Illinois Tool Works Inc.; and Executive
         Noncompetition Agreement between William Reeb and Illinois Tool Works
         Inc.

     (2) Form 8-K, Current Report, dated November 23, 1999, which included Item
         2, Item 7, and Agreement and Plan of Merger among Premark
         International, Inc., Illinois Tool Works Inc. and CS Merger Sub Inc.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 29th day of
March, 2000.

                                          ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.

                                          By      /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      W. James Farrell
                                                     Chairman and Chief
                                                     Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on this 29th day of March, 2000.



                                            By     /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL

                                             -----------------------------------
                                                     (W. James Farrell,
                                                    as Attorney-in-Fact)

     Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James Farrell to sign this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named
directors of the registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Exhibit 24).



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K












