ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations.

We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets.  Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development.  In addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions.  Failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

We are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock.

We are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.

The Separation may result in significant tax liabilities.

The Separation was conditioned on the receipt by us of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to our stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  Even though we have received such an opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. Both NiSource and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. Federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.

If we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment.

In order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes.  If we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers and shareholders may be negatively impacted.

We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations.

Utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services and other areas. Outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. If any difficulties in the operation of these systems were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees.

We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.

Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.