ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


Some of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit agreement, bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR. From time to time, we also enter into hedging instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the LIBOR benchmark interest rate. In addition, these hedging instruments, as well as hedging instruments that our subsidiaries use for hedging natural gas price and basis risk, rely on LIBOR-based rates to calculate interest accrued on certain payments that may be required to be made under these agreements, such as late payments or interest accrued if any cash collateral should be held by a counterparty. In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.  In the United States, efforts to identify a set of alternative U.S. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee has proposed the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its recommended alternative to LIBOR, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing SOFR rates in April 2018. SOFR is intended to be a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities.

Any changes announced by the FCA, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which the LIBOR rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported LIBOR rates. If that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. In addition, although certain of our LIBOR based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if LIBOR is not reported, which include, without limitation, requesting certain rates from major reference banks in London or New York, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates or payments that would have been made on our obligations if a LIBOR-based rate was available in its current form.