ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Additionally, NiSource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach NiSource's cyber-defenses. Although NiSource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess NiSource's countermeasures, a security breach of NiSource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of NiSource's generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact NiSource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject NiSource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to NiSource's customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact NiSource's ability to manage NiSource's businesses.

NiSource's capital projects and programs subject the Company to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks.

NiSource is engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility.  NIPSCO also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities.  As NiSource undertakes these projects and programs, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. Additionally, NiSource may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. NiSource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects and programs.

Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact NiSource’s operations.

NiSource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on NiSource’s infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the Company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Further, adverse weather may affect NiSource’s ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm NiSource’s results of operations.

NiSource operates in an industry that requires many of its employees to possess unique technical skill sets.  Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development.  In addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for NiSource due to market, economic, employment and other conditions.  Failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect NiSource’s ability to manage and operate its business.  If NiSource is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, its results of operations could be adversely affected.

NiSource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock.

NiSource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of NiSource’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, NiSource’s ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to NiSource, NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.

Following the Separation, all of the entities formerly included in NiSource's Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment have been separated from NiSource and are held by a separate company (CPG). The related assets are no longer held by subsidiaries of NiSource, which may negatively affect NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends.

The Separation may result in significant tax liabilities.

The Separation was conditioned on the receipt by NiSource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to NiSource stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  Even though NiSource has received such an opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable.  Both NiSource and its stockholders could incur significant U.S. Federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.