Item 1.  Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, the use of the terms "we," "us" and "our" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Best Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries.



Description of Business



We are a multinational retailer of consumer electronics, computing and mobile phone products, entertainment products, appliances and related services. We operate retail stores and call centers and conduct online retail operations under a variety of brand names such as Best Buy (BestBuy.com, BestBuy.ca), Best Buy Mobile (BestBuyMobile.com), The Carphone Warehouse (CarphoneWarehouse.com), Five Star, Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Pacific Sales and The Phone House (PhoneHouse.com). References to our Web site addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the Web sites.



Information About Our Segments



During fiscal 2012, we operated two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all states, districts and territories of the U.S., operating under various brand names including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales.



The International segment is comprised of: (i) all Canada operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Cell Shop, Connect Pro, Future Shop and Geek Squad; (ii) all Europe operations, operating under the brand names The Carphone Warehouse, The Phone House and Geek Squad; (iii) all China operations, operating under the brand name Five Star and (iv) all Mexico operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy and Geek Squad.



Financial information about our segments is included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 14,Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Domestic Segment



We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966 as Sound of Music, Inc. Today, our U.S. Best Buy stores offer our customers a wide variety of consumer electronics, computing and mobile phone products, entertainment products, appliances and related services with variations on product assortments, staffing, promotions and store design to address specific customer groups and local market needs.



In fiscal 2001, we acquired Magnolia Hi-Fi, Inc. — a Seattle-based, high-end retailer of audio and video products and services — to access an upscale customer segment. Today, we operate Magnolia Home Theater store-within-a-store experiences in certain U.S. Best Buy stores, offering customers high-end electronics with specially trained employees. In fiscal 2010, we also began operating Magnolia Design Center store-within-a-store experiences to further enhance the unique product offerings and high-touch customer service provided by the Magnolia brand in select U.S. Best Buy stores.



In fiscal 2003, we acquired Geek Squad Inc. Geek Squad provides repair, support and installation services. We acquired Geek Squad to further our plans of providing technology support services to customers. Geek Squad service is available in all U.S. Best Buy branded stores.



In fiscal 2007, we acquired California-based Pacific Sales Kitchen and Bath Centers, Inc. ("Pacific Sales"). Pacific Sales specializes in the sale and installation of high-end and mass-market premium brand kitchen appliances, plumbing fixtures and home entertainment products, with a focus on builders and remodelers. In fiscal 2011, we also began integrating Pacific Sales into select U.S. Best Buy stores via our store-within-a-store experience, offering customers many of the same products and services offered in that brand's stand-alone store format.



In fiscal 2007, we also developed the Best Buy Mobile concept through a management consulting agreement with U.K.-based The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ("CPW"). Best Buy Mobile provides a comprehensive assortment of mobile phones, accessories and related services using experienced sales personnel, now in all U.S. Best Buy stores, as well as stand-alone stores.











In fiscal 2012, we acquired mindSHIFT Technologies, Inc ("mindSHIFT"), a managed service provider for small and mid-sized businesses, providing cloud services, data center services and professional services throughout the U.S.



In the future, we expect to see a reduction in the number of large-format stores, a reduction in square footage for certain of our large-format stores and a continuation of the growth in small-format Best Buy Mobile stores.



International Segment



Our International segment was established in fiscal 2002 with our acquisition of Future Shop Ltd., Canada's largest consumer electronics retailer. Since that acquisition, we have operated a dual-brand strategy in Canada by introducing the Best Buy brand, which allows us to retain Future Shop's brand equity and attract more customers by offering a choice of distinct store experiences.



In fiscal 2007, we acquired a 75% interest in Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., Ltd. ("Five Star"), one of China's largest appliance and consumer electronics retailers. In fiscal 2009, we acquired the remaining 25% interest in Five Star.



In fiscal 2009, we acquired a 50% share in Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited ("Best Buy Europe"). Best Buy Europe is a venture with CPW, consisting of CPW's former retail and distribution business with nearly 2,400 small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores, online channels, device insurance operations, and mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services.



In fiscal 2009, we also expanded our Best Buy Mobile operations to Canada by opening stand-alone stores. We now also offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all Canadian Best Buy branded stores. Also in fiscal 2009, we opened our first Best Buy branded store in Mexico, located in Mexico City.



As of the end of fiscal 2012, we had closed all of our large-format Best Buy branded stores in China, Turkey and the U.K.



In order to align our fiscal reporting periods and comply with statutory filing requirements in certain foreign jurisdictions, we consolidate the financial results of our Europe, China and Mexico operations on a two-month lag. Consistent with such consolidation, the financial and non-financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relative to our Europe, China and Mexico operations is also presented on a two-month lag.



Operations



Domestic Segment



Our Domestic segment is primarily managed by product and service categories, with separate leadership teams responsible for each category. These teams are responsible for determining how their products and services are marketed through our three primary channels – retail stores, online and call centers. In addition to these teams, separate teams manage core capabilities (e.g., human resources and real estate management) and channel operations. Retail store operations are divided into territories and districts based on geography and store size. District managers monitor store operations and meet regularly with store managers to discuss performance.



Our U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores have developed procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are standardized within each store brand. Corporate retail management for each store brand generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, as well as inventory policies. All stores within each store brand generally operate in the same manner under the standard procedures adjusted to local customer needs.



International Segment



Located throughout eight European countries, The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores are significantly smaller than our Best Buy branded stores and employ sales associates that provide independent advice on the service and hardware best suited to each customer. Most phone sales require in-store registration with the mobile phone network operator facilitated by our employees, allowing the customer to leave the store with a fully active phone and a service contract. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing and inventory policies for these stores are controlled by corporate retail management in each respective local market.











Canada store operations are organized to support two principal store brands. Future Shop stores have predominantly commissioned sales associates, whereas employees in Best Buy branded stores in Canada, like employees in U.S. Best Buy stores, are noncommissioned. Each store brand has national management that monitors store operations. All Canada stores use a standardized operating system that includes procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, staff training and merchandise display. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing and inventory policies are centrally controlled. Our Best Buy Mobile stores in Canada employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy Mobile stores.



Our Five Star stores primarily utilize vendor employees and full-time sales associates to sell our products. Corporate retail management generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, and inventory policies, although management for individual regions within our Five Star brand may vary these operations locally to adapt to customer needs.



Our Best Buy branded stores in Mexico employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy stores.



Merchandise and Services



Domestic Segment



U.S. Best Buy stores and the related online channel have offerings in six revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Appliances, Services and Other. Consumer Electronics consists primarily of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, e-Readers, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, digital camcorders and accessories and DVD and Blu-ray players. Audio products include MP3 players and accessories, home theater audio systems and components, musical instruments and mobile electronics such as car stereo and satellite radio products. The Computing and Mobile Phones revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, tablets, monitors, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions, hard drives and other storage devices, networking equipment, office supplies and other related accessories such as printers. The Entertainment revenue category includes video gaming hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs, digital downloads and computer software. The Appliances revenue category includes both major and small appliances. The Services revenue category consists primarily of service contracts, extended warranties, computer-related services, product repair, and delivery and installation for home theater, mobile audio and appliances. The Other revenue category includes non-core offerings such as snacks and beverages.



U.S. Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our Computing and Mobile Phones and Services revenue categories. Revenue from U.S. Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware, subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators and associated mobile phone accessories.



Magnolia Audio Video stores have offerings in two revenue categories: Consumer Electronics and Services. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, DVD and Blu-ray players and accessories. Audio products include home theater audio systems and components, mobile electronics and accessories. The services revenue category consists primarily of home theater system installation as well as extended warranties.



Pacific Sales stores have offerings in three revenue categories: Appliances, Consumer Electronics and Services. Appliances consists of major appliances, evenly split between high-end and mass-market premium brands, and plumbing, which consists of kitchen and bath fixtures including faucets, sinks, toilets and bath tubs. Consumer Electronics consists of video and audio products, including televisions and home theater systems. The Services revenue category consists primarily of extended warranties, installation and repair services.



The offerings from our managed service provider for small and mid-sized businesses, mindSHIFT, are included in our Services revenue category and consist primarily of information technology-related service contracts.



International Segment



Our The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in Europe have offerings in two revenue categories: Computing and Mobile Phones and Services. Computing and Mobile Phones consists primarily of mobile phone hardware, subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators, associated mobile phone accessories and tablets. Services consists of insurance operations, providing protection primarily for the replacement of a lost, stolen or damaged mobile phones and tablets, as well as mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services, billing management services and Geek Squad repair services.











In Canada, the Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores have offerings in five revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Services and Other, and at Future Shop only, a sixth revenue category, Appliances. Consumer Electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, e-Readers, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, digital camcorders and accessories and DVD and Blu-ray players. Audio products encompass MP3 players and accessories, home theater audio systems and components, musical instruments and mobile electronics such as car stereo and accessories. The Computing and Mobile Phones revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, tablets, monitors, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions, hard drives and other storage devices, networking equipment, office supplies and related accessories such as printers. The Entertainment revenue category includes video game hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs and computer software. The Appliances revenue category includes both major and small appliances. The Services revenue category includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and home theater installation. The Other revenue category includes non-core offerings such as snacks and beverages.



Although Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores in Canada offer similar revenue categories (except for major Appliances, which are only offered at Future Shop stores), there are differences in product brands and depth of selection within revenue categories. Further, Geek Squad services are only available in the Best Buy branded stores with Future Shop's service offerings branded as Connect Pro.



Canada Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our Computing and Mobile Phones revenue category. Revenue from Canada Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware, subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators and related mobile phone accessories.



In China, our Five Star stores have offerings in four revenue categories: Appliances, Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones and Services. Our Five Star stores do not carry products in our Entertainment revenue category. The Appliances revenue category includes both major and small appliances, air conditioners and housewares. The Consumer Electronics revenue category consists of video and audio products, including televisions, digital cameras, MP3 players and accessories. The Computing and Mobile Phones revenue category includes desktop and notebook computers, tablets, mobile phones, traditional telephones and accessories. The Services revenue category includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and installation.



Our Best Buy branded stores in Mexico have offerings in six revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Appliances, Services and Other, with products and services similar to those of our U.S. Best Buy stores.



Distribution



Domestic Segment



Generally, U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores' merchandise, except for major appliances and large-screen televisions, is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers located throughout the U.S. Major appliances and large-screen televisions are shipped to satellite warehouses in each major market. These stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores, though Pacific Sales stores' merchandise is generally fulfilled directly to customers through a distribution center in California. Generally, U.S. Best Buy online merchandise sales are either picked up at U.S. Best Buy stores or fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers.



International Segment



Our small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers across Europe. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores. Stores hold the immediate stock requirement and the distribution center in each market holds additional inventory.



Our Canada stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers in British Columbia and Ontario. Our Canada stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores.









We receive our Five Star stores' merchandise at nearly 50 distribution centers and warehouses located throughout the Five Star retail chain, the largest of which is located in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province. Our Five Star stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and the shipment of most merchandise to our stores or customers. Large merchandise, such as major appliances, is generally fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers and warehouses.



Our Best Buy branded stores in Mexico have distribution methods similar to that of our U.S. Best Buy stores.



Suppliers and Inventory



Our strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to offer customers a broad selection of name-brand products and, therefore, our success is dependent upon satisfactory and stable supplier relationships. In fiscal 2012, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for just over 60% of the merchandise we purchased, with five suppliers — Apple, Samsung, Hewlett-Packard, Sony and Toshiba — representing 40% of total merchandise purchased. The loss of or disruption in supply from any one of these major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise. We have no indication that any of our suppliers plan to discontinue selling us merchandise. At various times throughout fiscal 2012, our ability to maintain satisfactory sources of supply for certain products was directly affected by supply chain interruptions in the industry caused by natural disasters in foreign countries. However, we generally expect that adequate sources of supply will be available for the various types of merchandise we sell.



We carefully monitor and manage our inventory levels to match quantities on hand with consumer demand as closely as possible. Key elements to this inventory management process include, without limitation, the following:



•continuous monitoring of historical and projected consumer demand;

•continuous monitoring and adjustment of inventory receipt levels;

•agreements with vendors relating to reimbursement for the cost of markdowns or sales incentives; and

•agreements with vendors relating to return privileges for certain products.



We also have a global sourcing operation in China in order to design, develop, test and contract manufacture our own line of exclusive brand products.



Store Development



Our store development program has historically focused on testing stores in new markets; adding stores within existing markets; and relocating, remodeling and expanding existing stores in order to offer new products and services to our customers.



In our Domestic segment, our current store development strategy is focused on increasing our retail points of presence, while decreasing our overall store square footage, for increased flexibility in a multi-channel environment. This includes our plans to remodel existing key stores in test markets with our new "Connected Store" format in fiscal 2013, as well as increasing the number of small-format Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores. We announced plans to close approximately 50 large-format Best Buy branded stores in the U.S. in fiscal 2013 and explore options for downsizing other stores throughout our portfolio.



In our International segment, we have recently exited or closed our large-format Best Buy branded stores in the China, Turkey, and U.K. markets. We intend to focus our international store strategy on areas we believe offer the best opportunity for profitable growth, such as Five Star in China and our small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in Europe.



Domestic Segment



During fiscal 2012, we opened 135 new stores and closed five stores in our Domestic segment. Although we have closed all of our Geek Squad stand-alone stores, we offer Geek Squad support services, as well as the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience, in all U.S. Best Buy stores.











The following tables show our Domestic segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

U.S. Best BuyStoresU.S. Best BuyMobile Stand-Alone StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20111,099177356Stores opened7128——Stores closed(3)—(1)(1)Total stores at end of fiscal 20121,103305345



U.S. Best BuyStoresU.S. Best BuyMobile Stand-Alone StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStand-Alone StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20101,069743566Stores opened31103———Stores closed(1)———(6)Total stores at end of fiscal 20111,099177356—



U.S. Best BuyStoresU.S. Best BuyMobile Stand-Alone StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStand-Alone StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20091,023383466Stores opened46361——Stores closed—————Total stores at end of fiscal 20101,069743566



International Segment



During fiscal 2012, we opened 219 new stores, primarily within our Best Buy Europe and Five Star operations, and closed 114 stores in our International segment, primarily within our Best Buy Europe business. Our small-format stores in Europe tend to have a greater number of store openings and closings compared to our other store formats, as we continually reposition and resize stores in certain markets and locations in order to optimize overall performance. We offer Geek Squad support services in all Best Buy branded stores and within select The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in the U.K and Spain, as well as similar Connect Pro branded services in Future Shop stores. We offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all Best Buy branded stores in Canada, with a similar Cell Shop branded concept in the majority of Future Shop stores.



The following tables show our International segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoThe CarphoneWarehouseand The PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyMobileStand-Alone StoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20112,35714671101666Stores opened1455620412Stores closed(109)(2)——(3)—Total stores at end of fiscal 20122,39314977302048











EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoThe CarphoneWarehouseand The PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyMobileStand-Alone StoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20102,3711446441585Stores opened85276121Stores closed(99)———(4)—Total stores at end of fiscal 20112,35714671101666



EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoThe CarphoneWarehouseand The PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyMobileStand-Alone StoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20092,3801395831641Stores opened7956164Stores closed(88)———(12)—Total stores at end of fiscal 20102,3711446441585



The store activity tables above exclude the impact of our recently closed large-format Best Buy branded stores in China, Turkey and the U.K., as well as recently sold The Phone House stores in Belgium, all of which are now included in the results of our discontinued operations.



Fiscal 2013 Store Opening and Closing Plans



As part of our current store development strategy focused on increasing retail points of presence while decreasing our overall square footage, we plan to open approximately 100 small-format Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores and close approximately 50 large-format Best Buy branded stores in the U.S. in fiscal 2013. Our International store development strategy consists primarily of opening approximately 50 Five Star stores in China, including 14 new mobile store-within-a-store concepts.



Intellectual Property



We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to, "Best Buy," "Best Buy Mobile," "The Carphone Warehouse," "Dynex," "Five Star," "Future Shop," "Geek Squad," "Init," "Insignia," "Magnolia," "mindSHIFT," "Pacific Sales," "The Phone House" and "Rocketfish," and our "Yellow Tag" logo.



We have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our Web sites.



Seasonality



Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. Historically, we have realized more of our revenue and a large portion of our earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Europe and Canada, than in any other fiscal quarter.



Working Capital



We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and investment opportunities. Our working capital needs are typically greatest in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventories in advance of expected sales.











Customers



We do not have a significant concentration of sales with any individual customer and, therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material impact on our business. No single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue.



Backlog



Our stores, call centers and online shopping sites do not have a material amount of backlog orders.



Government Contracts



No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of any government or government agencies or affiliates.



Competition



Our primary competitors are consumer electronics retailers including vendors who offer their products direct to the consumer, internet-based businesses, wholesale clubs, discount chains and home-improvement superstores.



Some of our competitors operate low cost operating structures and seek to compete for sales purely on price. In addition, in the U.S., internet-only operators receive an exemption from collecting sales taxes for sales in certain states. We believe this advantage will continue to be eroded as sales tax rules are re-evaluated at both the state and federal level. We carefully monitor pricing offered by our competitors and continuously adjust our pricing and promotions to maintain our competitiveness. In most of our locations, we offer some form of price-match to our store-based competitors. In order to allow this, we are focused on maintaining efficient operations, leveraging the economies of scale available to us and our global vendor partnerships.



In addition to price, we believe our ability to deliver a high quality customer experience offers us a key competitive advantage.  We believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, integrated store and online channels, broad product assortment, range of focused service and support offerings, distinct store formats and brand marketing strategies are important ways in which we maintain this advantage.



Research and Development



We have not engaged in any material research and development activities during the past three fiscal years.



Environmental Matters



While seeking and discovering new and innovative ways to engage our customers in the connected world, we also strive to lessen our impact on the environment. Our energy efficiency strategy includes end-to-end efforts to reduce energy use in our own internal operations and of the products and services we offer our customers. And with an expanding selection of our internally developed exclusive brand products, we continue to make efforts to provide products that use less energy, are made of non-toxic materials and are packaged in more responsible ways.



Our energy efficient practices include a centralized automated energy management system for our U.S. Best Buy stores and retail energy reports by store. We continue to evolve our High Performance Building Program as we remodel and update locations. For example, where economically viable, during remodels we are installing skylights and dimmable lighting which enables us to reduce our energy consumption. These energy efficiency improvements, as well as process enhancements, have helped us reduce our own carbon footprint. In calendar 2010, we set a new long-term goal of reducing our carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by calendar 2020 (over a 2009 baseline). During calendar 2011, our retail stores, distribution centers and corporate offices reduced over 59,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, an “absolute” decrease of 7.5% from the previous calendar year.



We continue to experience consumer demand for environmentally-friendly products and services, which leads us to focus on providing energy efficient products and a means to recycle old products. Our U.S. Best Buy customers purchased over 24 million ENERGY STAR® qualified products in calendar 2011. Through our ENERGY STAR® program, we helped our customers realize utility bill savings of over $143 million in calendar 2011. This energy savings equates to just over 2 billion pounds of CO2 avoidance, or the equivalent of removing 180,000 cars from the road. We are also investing in a number of technologies and partnerships that increase our product and service offerings to our customers including: home automation; alternative fuel sources and transportation; and partnerships with utility companies in 23 states in the U.S. that will allow for more affordable consumer purchases of energy efficient products.









Our nationwide consumer electronics take-back program allows customers to bring many consumer electronics products to our U.S. stores for free recycling. This recycling program is available in all U.S. Best Buy stores. We also collect old, inefficient appliances for recycling through a haul-away program.Best Buy has publicly committed to recycle 1 billion pounds of consumer goods. Through this program, Best Buy helps to reduce the overall energy impact of our supply chain and minimize the impact of mining for raw material. Since June 2008, when our goal was announced, we have diverted 500 million pounds from the waste stream. We project attaining our goal in 2014.



Continued efforts to be more environmentally conscious in our exclusive brands packaging focused on the use of recycled materials, non-solvent coatings and organic inks where possible. Through a variety of opportunities, we reduced plastic usage by 713 tons and eliminated 803 tons of PVC from our exclusive brands packaging during fiscal 2012.



We are not aware of any federal, state or local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, that have materially affected, or are reasonably expected to materially affect, our net earnings or competitive position, or have resulted or are reasonably expected to result in material capital expenditures. See Item 1A,Risk Factors, for additional discussion.



We believe we can continue to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions in cost effective ways that deliver value to our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities we serve, whether it's in our own internal operations or through our work to connect customers with more energy efficient solutions.



Number of Employees



At the end of fiscal 2012, we employed approximately 167,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees worldwide. We consider our employee relations to be good. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory requirements, which we believe are competitive in the aggregate relative to others in our industry.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



We operate two reportable segments: Domestic and International. Financial information regarding the Domestic and International geographic areas is included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 14,Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Available Information



We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at:



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street NE

Washington, D.C. 20549



Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's Web site atwww.sec.gov.



We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.investors.bestbuy.com— select the "Financial Performance" link and then the "SEC Filings" link.



We also make available, free of charge on our Web site, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ("Board") and our Code of Business Ethics (including any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Ethics) adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board's committees: Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Finance and Investment Policy Committee, Global Strategy Committee and Nominating,









Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.investors.bestbuy.com— select the the "Corporate Governance" link.



Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:



Best Buy Co., Inc.

Investor Relations Department

7601 Penn Avenue South

Richfield, MN 55423-3645





