Item 1. Business.

Description of Business

Unless the context otherwise requires, the use of the terms "we," "us" and "our" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Best
Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a multinational retailer of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software, appliances and
related services. We operate retail stores and call centers and conduct online retail operations under a variety of brand names such as Best Buy (BestBuy.com, BestBuy.ca), The Carphone Warehouse
(CarphoneWarehouse.com), Five Star, Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Napster (Napster.com), Pacific Sales, The Phone House (PhoneHouse.com) and Speakeasy. References to
our Web site addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the Web sites.

We
are committed to growth and innovation. Our business strategy is to treat customers as unique individuals, engaging and energizing our employees to serve customer needs with
end-to-end solutions, while maximizing overall profitability. We believe we offer consumers meaningful advantages in store environment, multi-channel shopping, product value,
product selection, and a variety of in-store and in-home services related to the merchandise we offer, all of which advance our objectives of enhancing our business model,
gaining market share and improving profitability.

Information About Our Segments

During fiscal 2010, we operated two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all
states, districts and territories of the U.S., operating under various brand names including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Napster, Pacific Sales
and Speakeasy.

The
International segment is comprised of: (i) all Canada operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Future Shop and Geek Squad; (ii) all Europe operations,
operating under the brand names The Carphone Warehouse, The Phone House and Geek Squad; (iii) all China operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Geek Squad and Five Star;
(iv) all Mexico operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy and Geek Squad and (v) all Turkey operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy and Geek Squad.

Financial
information about our segments is included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, and Note 12,Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Domestic Segment

We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966 as Sound of Music, Inc. We began as an audio components retailer and, with the
introduction of the videocassette recorder in the early 1980s, expanded into video products. In 1983, we changed our name to Best Buy Co., Inc. and began using
mass-merchandising techniques, which included offering a wider variety of products and operating stores under a "superstore" concept. In 1989, we dramatically changed our method of
retailing by introducing a self-service, noncommissioned, discount-style store concept designed to give the customer a variety of brands and more control over the purchasing process.
Today, our U.S. Best Buy stores operate under a customer centricity operating model offering our customers a wide variety of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment software,
appliances and related services with variations on product assortments, staffing, promotions and store design to address specific customer groups and local market needs.

In
fiscal 2001, we acquired Magnolia Hi-Fi, Inc. — a Seattle-based, high-end retailer of audio and video products and services — to
access an upscale customer segment. In fiscal 2005, we began operating Magnolia Home Theater store-within-a-store experiences in U.S. Best Buy stores, where we continue to
offer customers high-end electronics with specially trained employees.

In
fiscal 2003, we acquired Geek Squad Inc. Geek Squad provides residential and commercial repair, support and installation services. We acquired Geek Squad to further our plans of providing
technology support services to customers. Geek Squad service is available in all U.S. Best Buy branded stores.

In
fiscal 2007, we acquired California-based Pacific Sales Kitchen and Bath Centers, Inc. Pacific Sales specializes in











the
sale of ultra-premium and mass-premium kitchen appliances, plumbing fixtures and home entertainment products, with a focus on builders and remodelers.

In
fiscal 2007, we also developed the Best Buy Mobile concept through a management consulting agreement with UK-based The Carphone Warehouse Group Plc ("CPW"). Best Buy Mobile
provides a comprehensive assortment of mobile phones, accessories and related services using experienced sales personnel, now in all U.S. Best Buy stores, as well as stand-alone stores.

In
fiscal 2008, we acquired Speakeasy Inc. Speakeasy provides broadband, voice, data and information technology services to small businesses.

In
fiscal 2009, we acquired Napster, Inc. Napster provides a comprehensive digital music service offering, including digital music downloads and on-demand streaming capabilities.

International Segment

Our International segment was established in fiscal 2002 in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop Ltd., Canada's largest consumer
electronics retailer.

During
fiscal 2003, we launched our dual-branding strategy in Canada by introducing the Best Buy brand. The dual-branding strategy allows us to retain Future Shop's brand
equity and attract more customers by offering a choice of distinct store experiences.

In
fiscal 2007, we acquired a 75% interest in Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., Ltd., one of China's largest appliance and consumer electronics retailers. We made the investment in Five
Star to further our international growth plans, to increase our knowledge of Chinese customers and to obtain an immediate retail presence in China. We also opened our first Best Buy China store,
located in Shanghai, in fiscal 2007. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 25% interest in Five Star.

In
fiscal 2009, we acquired a 50% share in Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited ("Best Buy Europe"). Best Buy Europe is a venture with CPW, consisting of CPW's former retail and distribution business
with over 2,400 The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores, online channels, device insurance operations, and mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services. The transaction also
included CPW's economic interest in both Best Buy Mobile in the U.S. and Geek Squad in the U.K. and Spain. We made the investment in Best Buy Europe to further our international growth plans, to
increase our knowledge of European customers and to obtain an immediate retail presence in Europe. We plan to launch large-format Best Buy-branded stores and related online channels in the
European market beginning in fiscal 2011.

In
fiscal 2009, we also expanded our Best Buy Mobile operations to Canada by opening stand-alone stores. We now also offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience
in all Canadian Best Buy branded stores. Also in fiscal 2009, we opened our first Best Buy Mexico store, located in Mexico City.

In
fiscal 2010, we opened our first Best Buy Turkey store, located in Izmir.

In
order to align our fiscal reporting periods and comply with statutory filing requirements in certain foreign jurisdictions, we consolidate the financial results of our Europe, China, Mexico and
Turkey operations on a two-month lag. Consistent with such consolidation, the financial and non-financial information presented in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K relative to our Europe, China, Mexico and Turkey operations is also presented on a two-month lag.

Operations

Domestic Segment

Our Domestic segment store operations are organized by store brand. U.S. Best Buy store operations are divided into districts and are under the
management of a retail field officer who oversees store performance through district managers. District managers monitor U.S. Best Buy store operations and meet regularly with store managers to
discuss merchandising, new product introductions, sales promotions, customer loyalty programs, employee satisfaction surveys and store operating performance.

Our
U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile stand-alone, Magnolia Audio Video, Pacific Sales and Geek Squad stores have developed procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer
relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are standardized within each store brand. Corporate retail management for each store brand
generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, as well as inventory policies. All stores within each store brand generally











operate
in the same manner under the standard procedures adjusted to local customer needs.

International Segment

Located throughout nine European countries, The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores are significantly smaller than our Best Buy stores and
employ sales associates that provide independent advice on the best service and hardware suited to each customer. Most phone sales require in-store registration with the mobile phone
network operator facilitated by our employees, allowing the customer to leave the store with a fully active phone and a service contract. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing and inventory
policies for these stores are controlled by corporate retail management in each respective local market.

Canada
store operations are organized to support two principal brands. Future Shop stores have predominantly commissioned sales associates who take a proactive role in assisting customers and driving
the transaction, whereas Best Buy Canada store employees, like employees in U.S. Best Buy stores, are noncommissioned, allowing the customers to drive the transaction through interactive displays and
grab-and-go merchandising. Each brand has national management that closely monitors store operations. All Canada stores use a standardized operating system that includes
procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, staff training and merchandise display. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing and
inventory policies are centrally controlled. Our Canada Best Buy Mobile stores employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy Mobile stores.

China
store operations are also organized to support two principal brands. Our Best Buy branded China stores employ an operating model similar to Best Buy stores in the U.S. and Canada, while our Five
Star stores primarily utilize vendor employees and full-time sales associates to sell our products. Corporate retail management for each store brand generally controls advertising,
merchandise purchasing and pricing and inventory policies, while management for individual regions within our Five Star brand may control these operations locally to adapt to customer needs.

Our
Best Buy Mexico and Best Buy Turkey stores employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Merchandise and Services

Domestic Segment

U.S. Best Buy stores have offerings in six revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment software, appliances, services and
other. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, digital camcorders and accessories,
e-readers and DVD and Blu-ray players. Audio products consist of MP3 players and accessories, home theater audio systems and components, musical instruments and mobile electronics such as
car stereo and satellite radio products. The home office revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, monitors, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions, hard drives,
networking equipment and related accessories such as printers. The entertainment software revenue category includes video gaming hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs, digital downloads and
computer software. The appliances revenue category includes major appliances as well as small electrics. The services revenue category consists primarily of service contracts, extended warranties,
computer-related services, product repair, and delivery and installation for home theater, mobile audio and appliances. The other revenue category includes non-core offerings such as
snacks and beverages.

U.S.
Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our home office revenue category. Revenue from U.S. Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware, subscription
service commissions from mobile phone network providers and associated mobile phone accessories.

Magnolia
Audio Video stores have offerings in two revenue categories: consumer electronics and services. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions,
DVD and Blu-ray players and accessories. Audio products include home theater audio systems and components, mobile electronics and accessories. The services revenue category consists primarily of home
theater system installation as well as extended warranties.









Pacific
Sales stores have offerings in three revenue categories: appliances, consumer electronics and services. Appliances consists of major appliances, evenly split between high-end and
mass-market premium brands, and plumbing, which consists of kitchen and bath fixtures including faucets, sinks, toilets and bath tubs. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio
products, including televisions and home theater systems. The services revenue category consists primarily of extended warranties, installation and repair services.

International Segment

The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in Europe have offerings in two revenue categories: home office and services. Home office consists
primarily of mobile phone hardware, subscription service commissions from mobile phone network providers and associated mobile phone accessories. Services consists of device insurance operations,
providing protection primarily for the replacement of a lost, stolen or damaged handset, as well as mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services, billing management services and Geek
Squad repair services.

Best
Buy Canada and Future Shop stores have offerings in five revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment software, services and other, and for Future Shop only, a sixth
revenue category, appliances. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, DVD and Blu-ray
players and digital camcorders and accessories. Audio products encompass MP3 players, home theater audio systems and components, mobile electronics such as car stereo and accessories. The home office
revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, monitors, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions, hard drives, networking equipment and related accessories such as
printers. The entertainment software revenue category includes video game hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs and computer software. The appliances revenue category includes major appliances as
well as small electrics. The services revenue category includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and home theater installation. The other revenue category includes
non-core offerings such as snacks and beverages.

Although
Best Buy Canada and Future Shop stores offer similar revenue categories (except for appliances, which are only offered at Future Shop stores), there are differences in product brands and
depth of selection within revenue categories. On average, approximately 30% of the product assortment (excluding entertainment software) overlaps between the two store brands. Further, Geek Squad
services are only available in the Best Buy Canada stores with Future Shop's service offerings branded as Connect Pro.

Canada
Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our home office revenue category. Revenue from Canada Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware, subscription
service commissions from mobile phone network providers and associated mobile phone accessories.

Best
Buy China and Five Star stores have offerings in four revenue categories: appliances, consumer electronics, home office and services. Our China stores do not carry entertainment software.
Appliances includes major appliances, air conditioners, small electrics and housewares. The consumer electronics revenue category consists of video and audio products, including televisions, digital
cameras, MP3 players and accessories. The home office revenue category includes desktop and notebook computers, mobile phones, traditional telephones and accessories. The services revenue category
includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and installation.

Our
Best Buy Mexico and Best Buy Turkey stores have offerings in six revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment software, appliances, services and other, with products and
services similar to those of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Distribution

Domestic Segment

Generally, U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile stand-alone, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores' merchandise, except for major appliances
and large-screen televisions, is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers located throughout the U.S. Major appliances and large-screen televisions are shipped to satellite
warehouses in each major market. These stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in











order
to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship
merchandise from the distribution centers to stores, though Pacific Sales stores' merchandise is generally fulfilled directly to customers through two distribution centers in California. Generally,
U.S. Best Buy online merchandise sales are either picked up at U.S. Best Buy stores or fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers.

International Segment

The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers across Europe.
Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores. Stores hold the immediate stock requirement and the distribution center in each market holds additional inventory.

Our
Canada stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers in British Columbia and Ontario. Our Canada stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for
inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our
stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores.

We
receive our Five Star stores' merchandise at more than 40 distribution centers and warehouses located throughout the Five Star retail chain, the largest of which is located in Nanjing, Jiangsu
Province. Our Five Star stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise to our stores or customers. Large merchandise such as major appliances
is generally fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers and warehouses.

Our
Best Buy China stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution center in Shanghai. Our Best Buy China stores are dependent upon the distribution center for inventory
storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from
manufacturers and distributors. In certain circumstances, merchandise is shipped directly to our customers from manufacturers and distributors.

Our
Best Buy Mexico and Best Buy Turkey stores have distribution methods similar to that of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Suppliers

Our strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to offer customers a broad selection of name-brand products and, therefore, our success is
dependent upon satisfactory and stable supplier relationships. In fiscal 2010, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for just under 60% of the merchandise we purchased, with five
suppliers — Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba — representing 35% of total merchandise purchased. The loss of or disruption in supply from any one
of these major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our major suppliers that would require
them to continue supplying us with merchandise. We have no indication that any of our suppliers plan to discontinue selling us merchandise. We have not experienced significant difficulty in
maintaining satisfactory sources of supply, and we generally expect that adequate sources of supply will continue to exist for the types of merchandise we sell.

We
operate a global sourcing office in China in order to design, develop, test and purchase our own line of exclusive brands products in partnership with contract manufacturers in Asia. We expect our
exclusive brands purchases to continue to increase as a percentage of our total purchases. We also believe that the expected increase in our global sourcing volumes will help drive gross profit rate
improvements by lowering our overall product cost.

Store Development

The addition of new stores has played, and we believe will continue to play, a role in our growth and success. Our store development program has
historically focused on entering new markets; adding stores within existing markets; and relocating, remodeling and expanding existing stores in order to offer new products and services to our
customers.

Domestic Segment

During fiscal 2010, we opened 85 new stores and closed no stores in our Domestic segment. We offer Geek Squad support services in all Best Buy stores
and the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all Best Buy stores.









The
following tables show our Domestic segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

U.S. Best BuyStoresStand-aloneU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnoliaAudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20091,023383466Stores opened463612—Stores closed—————Total stores at end of fiscal 20101,069743586



U.S. Best BuyStoresStand-aloneU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnoliaAudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2008923919137Stores opened1003215——Stores closed—(3)—(7)(1)Total stores at end of fiscal 20091,023383466



U.S. Best BuyStoresStand-aloneU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnoliaAudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20078225142012Stores opened10145——Stores closed———(7)(5)Total stores at end of fiscal 2008923919137

International Segment

During fiscal 2010, we opened 106 new stores and closed 106 stores in our International segment, primarily within our Best Buy Europe business. We
offer Geek Squad support services in all Best Buy stores and within select Best Buy Europe stores in the U.K and Spain, as well as similar support services branded Connect Pro in Future Shop stores.
We offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all Best Buy Canada stores with a similar concept branded Cell Shop in certain Future Shop stores.

The
following tables show our International segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyThe CarphoneWarehouse andThe PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresStand-aloneBest BuyMobileStoresBest BuyStoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20092,46513958351641—Stores opened825611641Stores closed(94)————(12)——Total stores at end of fiscal 20102,453144644615851











EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyThe CarphoneWarehouse andThe PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresStand-aloneBest BuyMobileStoresBest BuyStoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2008—13151—1160——Stores acquired(1)2,414———————Stores opened105973491—Stores closed(54)(1)———(5)——Total stores at end of fiscal 20092,46513958351641—

(1)Acquired
on June 28, 2008.

EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyThe CarphoneWarehouse andThe PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresStand-aloneBest BuyMobileStoresBest BuyStoresFive StarStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2007—12147—1135——Stores opened—104——31——Stores closed—————(6)——Total stores at end of fiscal 2008—13151—1160——

Fiscal 2011 Store Opening Plans

For fiscal 2011, our new store opening plans include the opening of 50-55 net large-format stores under the Best Buy brand. We expect to
open the majority of these stores in our Domestic segment. We also plan to open 75-100 small-format stores, primarily Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores in the U.S. In addition, we expect
to open 10-15 Five Star stores in China.

Intellectual Property

We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks and trade names, including, but not limited to,
"Best Buy," "Best Buy Mobile," "The Carphone Warehouse," "Dynex," "Five Star," "Future Shop," "Geek Squad," "Insignia," "Magnolia Audio Video," "Napster," "Pacific Sales," "The Phone House,"
"Rocketfish," "Speakeasy" and the "Yellow Tag" logo.

The
company has secured domestic and international trademark registrations for many of its brands. The company has also secured issued patents for many of its inventions. We believe our intellectual
property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our Web sites.

Seasonality

Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. Historically, we have realized more of our revenue and earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter,
which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Europe and Canada, than in any other fiscal quarter.

Working Capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows
generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities. Our working capital needs are typically
greatest in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season.

Customers

We do not have a significant concentration of sales with any individual customer and, therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a
material impact on our business. No single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue.









Backlog

Our stores, call centers and online shopping sites do not have a material amount of backlog orders.

Government Contracts

No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of any
government or government agencies or affiliates.

Competition

Our primary competitors are discount chains, consumer electronics retailers including vendors who offer their products direct to the consumer,
wholesale clubs, home-improvement superstores and Web-based alternatives.

We
believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, store experience, broad product assortment, distinct store formats and brand marketing strategies differentiate us from our competitors by
positioning our stores and Web sites as the preferred destination for new technology and entertainment products in a fun and informative shopping environment.

Research and Development

We have not engaged in any material research and development activities during the past three fiscal years.

Environmental Matters

While seeking and discovering new and innovative ways to engage our customers in the connected world, we are also lessening our impact on the
environment. Our energy efficiency strategy includes end-to-end efforts to reduce energy use in our own internal operations and of the products and services we offer our
customers.

Our
energy efficient practices include a centralized automated energy management system for our U.S. Best Buy stores and retail energy reports by store. Lighting and HVAC upgrades, as well as aiming
to build new stores to Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standards, are also part of our continuing efforts. These energy efficiency improvements have helped us reduce our own
carbon footprint. In calendar 2009, we met our U.S. carbon reduction goal ahead of schedule, reducing our emissions by over 8% per retail square foot compared to our calendar 2005 baseline. In
addition, while our total average square footage increased by 4.8% in calendar 2009, we reduced our energy consumption by 15 million kilowatt hours in our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Increasing
consumer demand for environmentally friendly products and services has led us to provide new energy efficient products and a means to recycle old products. We helped our U.S. Best Buy
customers purchase over 24 million ENERGY
STAR® qualified products in fiscal 2010 and encourage our vendors to participate in the ENERGY STAR® program. In fiscal 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimated
that our sales of these products resulted in customer savings of 796 million kilowatt hours of energy, equal to $91 million in electric utility bill savings, while preventing over
1.6 billion pounds of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. As part of our strategy, we also began investing in emerging "green" technologies such as home energy management systems for
all the connected devices in a home, renewable energy technologies and electric transportation. As a result of our efforts, we received the 2009 ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence in
Appliance and Electronics Retailing.

In
addition, in February 2009, we launched a nationwide consumer electronics take-back program where customers can bring many consumer electronics products to our stores for free
recycling. This recycling program is available in all U.S. Best Buy stores. In fiscal 2010, our recycling program collected approximately 74 million pounds of consumer electronics and
approximately 66 million pounds of old appliances, reducing the amount of electronic waste that would otherwise have been sent to landfills. The program also serves to retire old, inefficient
appliances.

We
are not aware of any federal, state or local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment, that have materially affected, or are reasonably expected to materially affect, our net earnings or competitive position, or have resulted or are reasonably expected to result in material
capital expenditures. See Item 1A,Risk Factors,for additional discussion.

We
believe we can continue to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions in cost effective ways that deliver value to our shareholders, customers, and employees, whether it's in our own internal
operations or











through
our work to connect customers with more energy efficient solutions.

Number of Employees

At the end of fiscal 2010, we employed approximately 180,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees worldwide. We
consider our employee relations to be good. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory
requirements, which we believe are competitive in the aggregate relative to others in our industry.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

We operate two reportable segments: Domestic and International. Financial information regarding the Domestic and International geographic areas is
included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 12,Segment and Geographic
Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy
statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at:

SEC
Public Reference Room100 F Street NEWashington, D.C. 20549

Information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The
SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by
accessing the SEC's Web site atwww.sec.gov.

We
make available, free of charge on our Web site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with,
or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.bby.com— select the "Investor Relations" link and then
the "SEC Filings" link.

We
also make available, free of charge on our Web site, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ("Board") and our Code of Business Ethics (including any amendment to, or waiver
from, a provision of our Code of Business Ethics) adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board's committees: Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Finance
and Investment Policy Committee, Global Strategy Committee and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.bby.com— select
the "Investor Relations" link and then the "Corporate Governance" link.

Copies
of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:

Best
Buy Co., Inc.Investor Relations Department7601 Penn Avenue SouthRichfield, MN 55423-3645

