Item 1.  Business.

Description of Business

Unless the context otherwise requires, the use of the terms "we," "us" and "our" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Best
Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a multinational retailer of consumer electronics, home office products, entertainment products, appliances and related services.
We operate retail stores and call centers and conduct online retail operations under a variety of brand names such as Best Buy (BestBuy.com, BestBuy.ca, BestBuy.co.uk), Best Buy Mobile
(BestBuyMobile.com), The Carphone Warehouse (CarphoneWarehouse.com), Five Star (Five-Star.cn), Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Napster (Napster.com), Pacific
Sales and The Phone House (PhoneHouse.com). References to our Web site addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the Web sites.

Information About Our Segments

During fiscal 2011, we operated two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all
states, districts and territories of the U.S., operating under various brand names including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video, Napster and
Pacific Sales.

The
International segment is comprised of: (i) all Canada operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Cell Shop, Connect Pro, Future Shop and Geek
Squad; (ii) all Europe operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, The Carphone Warehouse, The Phone House and Geek Squad; (iii) all China operations, operating under
the brand names Best Buy, Geek Squad and Five Star; (iv) all Mexico operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy and Geek Squad and (v) all Turkey operations,
operating under the brand names Best Buy and Geek Squad.

Financial
information about our segments is included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, and Note 12,Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Domestic Segment

We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966 as Sound of Music, Inc. We began as an audio components retailer and, with the introduction of
the videocassette recorder in the early 1980s,
expanded into video products. In 1983, we changed our name to Best Buy Co., Inc. and began using mass-merchandising techniques, which included offering a wider variety of products and operating
stores under a "superstore" concept. In 1989, we dramatically changed our method of retailing by introducing a self-service, noncommissioned, discount-style store concept designed to give the customer
a variety of brands and more control over the purchasing process. Today, our U.S. Best Buy stores operate a model whereby we offer our customers a wide variety of consumer electronics, home
office products, entertainment products, appliances and related services with variations on product assortments, staffing, promotions and store design to address specific customer groups and local
market needs.

In
fiscal 2001, we acquired Magnolia Hi-Fi, Inc. — a Seattle-based, high-end retailer of audio and video products and services — to access an upscale
customer segment. In fiscal 2005, we began operating Magnolia Home Theater store-within-a-store experiences in U.S. Best Buy stores, offering customers high-end electronics with specially
trained employees.

In
fiscal 2003, we acquired Geek Squad Inc. Geek Squad provides repair, support and installation services. We acquired Geek Squad to further our plans of providing technology support services to
customers. Geek Squad service is available in all U.S. Best Buy branded stores.









In
fiscal 2007, we acquired California-based Pacific Sales Kitchen and Bath Centers, Inc. ("Pacific Sales"). Pacific Sales specializes in the sale and installation of high-end and mass-market premium
brand kitchen appliances, plumbing fixtures and home entertainment products, with a focus on builders and remodelers.

In
fiscal 2007, we also developed the Best Buy Mobile concept through a management consulting agreement with U.K.-based The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ("CPW"). Best Buy Mobile provides
a comprehensive assortment of mobile phones, accessories and related services using experienced sales personnel, now in all U.S. Best Buy stores, as well as stand-alone stores.

In
fiscal 2008, we acquired Speakeasy Inc. ("Speakeasy"). Speakeasy provides broadband, voice, data and information technology services to small businesses. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011,
we completed the sale of our Speakeasy business to Covad Communications Group.

In
fiscal 2009, we acquired Napster, Inc. Napster provides a comprehensive digital music service offering, including digital music downloads and on-demand streaming capabilities.

International Segment

Our International segment was established in fiscal 2002 in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop Ltd., Canada's largest consumer electronics
retailer.

During
fiscal 2003, we launched our dual-branding strategy in Canada by introducing the Best Buy brand. The dual-branding strategy allows us to retain Future Shop's brand equity and attract
more customers by offering a choice of distinct store experiences.

In
fiscal 2007, we acquired a 75% interest in Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., Ltd. ("Five Star"), one of China's largest appliance and consumer electronics retailers. We made the investment in Five
Star to further our international growth plans, to increase our knowledge of Chinese customers and to obtain an immediate retail presence in China. We also opened our first Best Buy branded
store in China, located in Shanghai, in fiscal 2007. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 25% interest in Five Star.

In
fiscal 2009, we acquired a 50% share in Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited ("Best Buy Europe"). Best Buy Europe is a venture with CPW, consisting of CPW's former retail and
distribution business with over 2,400 small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores, online channels, device insurance operations, and mobile and fixed-line telecommunication
services. The transaction also included CPW's economic interest in both Best Buy Mobile in the U.S. and Geek Squad in the U.K. and Spain. We made the investment in Best Buy Europe to further
our international growth plans, to increase our knowledge of European customers and to obtain an immediate retail presence in Europe. During fiscal 2011, we launched large-format Best Buy
branded stores in the U.K. and a related online channel in the European market.

In
fiscal 2009, we also expanded our Best Buy Mobile operations to Canada by opening stand-alone stores. We now also offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all
Canadian Best Buy branded stores. Also in fiscal 2009, we opened our first Best Buy branded store in Mexico, located in Mexico City.

In
fiscal 2010, we opened our first Best Buy branded store in Turkey, located in Izmir.

In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced plans to exit the Turkey market and restructure the Best Buy branded stores in China during fiscal 2012. The exit from the Turkey market
includes exiting of all current operations in that country, including its two Best Buy branded stores. Restructuring activities in China include closing all eight Best Buy branded
stores. We also intend to explore other more profitable growth options for the Best Buy brand in China, including the option to reopen two of the closed stores at a later date.

In
order to align our fiscal reporting periods and comply with statutory filing requirements in certain foreign jurisdictions, we consolidate the financial results of our Europe, China, Mexico and
Turkey operations on a two-month lag. Consistent









with
such consolidation, the financial and non-financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relative to our Europe, China, Mexico and Turkey operations is also
presented on a two-month lag.

Operations

Domestic Segment

Our Domestic segment store operations are organized by store brand. U.S. Best Buy store operations are divided into districts and are under the
management of a retail field officer who oversees store performance through district managers. District managers monitor U.S. Best Buy store operations and meet regularly with store managers to
discuss merchandising, new product introductions, sales promotions, customer loyalty programs, employee satisfaction surveys and store operating performance.

Our
U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video, Pacific Sales and Geek Squad stores have developed procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer
relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are standardized within each store brand. Corporate retail management for each store brand
generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, as well as inventory policies. All stores within each store brand generally operate in the same manner under the standard procedures
adjusted to local customer needs.

International Segment

Located throughout nine European countries, The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores are significantly smaller than our Best Buy
branded stores and employ sales associates that provide independent advice on the best service and hardware suited to each customer. Most phone sales require in-store registration with the
mobile phone network operator facilitated by our employees, allowing the customer to leave the store with a fully active phone and a service contract. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing
and inventory policies for these stores are controlled by corporate retail management in each respective local market.

Canada
store operations are organized to support two principal brands. Future Shop stores have predominantly commissioned sales associates who take a proactive role in assisting customers and driving
the transaction, whereas employees in Best Buy branded stores in Canada, like employees in U.S. Best Buy stores, are noncommissioned, allowing the customers to drive the transaction
through interactive displays and grab-and-go merchandising. Each brand has national management that closely monitors store operations. All Canada stores use a standardized operating system
that includes procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, staff training and merchandise display. Advertising, merchandise purchasing and
pricing and inventory policies are centrally controlled. Our Best Buy Mobile stores in Canada employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy Mobile stores.

China
store operations are also organized to support two principal brands. Our Five Star stores primarily utilize vendor employees and full-time sales associates to sell our products. Our
Best Buy branded stores in China have employed an operating model similar to Best Buy branded stores in the U.S. However, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced plans to
restructure the Best Buy branded stores in China during fiscal 2012. Corporate retail management for each store brand generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, and
inventory policies, although management for individual regions within our Five Star brand may vary these operations locally to adapt to customer needs. We anticipate consolidating the support
operations for the Best Buy branded stores in China with the existing Five Star business as a part of the announced restructuring of such stores.

Our
Best Buy branded stores in the U.K., Mexico and Turkey employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy stores. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced
plans to exit the Turkey market during fiscal 2012.









Merchandise and Services

Domestic Segment

U.S. Best Buy stores and the related online channel have offerings in six revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment,
appliances, services and other. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, digital camcorders
and accessories, e-Readers and DVD and Blu-ray players. Audio products consist of MP3 players and accessories, home theater audio systems and components, musical instruments
and mobile electronics such as car stereo and satellite radio products. The home office revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, tablets, monitors, mobile phones and related
subscription service commissions, hard drives, networking equipment and related accessories such as printers. The entertainment revenue category includes video gaming hardware and software, DVDs,
Blu-rays, CDs, digital downloads and computer software. The appliances revenue category includes major appliances as well as small electrics. The services revenue category consists
primarily of service contracts, extended warranties, computer-related services, product repair, and delivery and installation for home theater, mobile audio and appliances. The other revenue category
includes non-core offerings such as snacks and beverages.

U.S.
Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our home office revenue category. Revenue from U.S. Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware,
subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators and associated mobile phone accessories.

Magnolia
Audio Video stores have offerings in two revenue categories: consumer electronics and services. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions,
DVD and Blu-ray players and accessories. Audio products include home theater audio systems and components, mobile electronics and accessories. The services revenue category consists
primarily of home theater system installation as well as extended warranties.

Pacific
Sales stores have offerings in three revenue categories: appliances, consumer electronics and services. Appliances consists of major appliances, evenly split between high-end and mass-market
premium brands, and plumbing, which consists of kitchen and bath fixtures including faucets, sinks, toilets and bath tubs. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products, including
televisions and home theater systems. The services revenue category consists primarily of extended warranties, installation and repair services.

International Segment

Our small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in Europe have offerings in two revenue categories: home office and services. Home
office consists primarily of mobile phone hardware, subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators and associated mobile phone accessories. Services consists of device insurance
operations, providing protection primarily for the replacement of a lost, stolen or damaged handset, as well as mobile and fixed-line telecommunication services, billing management services and Geek
Squad repair services.

Our
large-format Best Buy branded stores in the U.K. have offerings in six revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment, appliances, services and other, with products
and services similar to those of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

In
Canada, the Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores have offerings in five revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment, services and other, and at Future Shop only,
a sixth revenue category, appliances. Consumer electronics consists of video and audio products. Video products include televisions, navigation products, digital cameras and accessories, digital
camcorders and accessories, e-Readers, and DVD and Blu-ray players. Audio products encompass MP3 players and accessories, home theater audio systems and components, mobile
electronics such as car stereo and accessories. The home office revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, tablets, monitors, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions,
hard drives, networking equipment and related accessories such as printers. The entertainment revenue category includes video game hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs and computer
software. The appliances revenue category includes major appliances as well as small electrics. The services











revenue
category includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and home theater installation. The other revenue category includes non-core offerings such as snacks and
beverages.

Although
Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores in Canada offer similar revenue categories (except for appliances, which are only offered at Future Shop stores), there are differences in
product brands and depth of selection within revenue categories. On average, approximately 30% of the product assortment (excluding entertainment) overlaps between the two store brands. Further, Geek
Squad services are only available in the Best Buy branded stores with Future Shop's service offerings branded as Connect Pro.

Canada
Best Buy Mobile offerings are included in our home office revenue category. Revenue from Canada Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores is primarily derived from mobile phone hardware,
subscription service commissions from mobile phone network operators and related mobile phone accessories.

In
China, our Five Star and Best Buy branded stores have offerings in four revenue categories: appliances, consumer electronics, home office and services. Our China stores do not carry products
in our entertainment revenue category. Appliances includes major appliances, air conditioners, small electrics and housewares. The consumer electronics revenue category consists of video and audio
products, including televisions, digital cameras, MP3 players and accessories. The home office revenue category includes desktop and notebook computers, tablets, mobile phones, traditional telephones
and accessories. The services revenue category includes extended warranties, repair, delivery, computer-related services and installation.

Our
Best Buy branded stores in Mexico and Turkey have offerings in six revenue categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment, appliances, services and other, with products and
services similar to those of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Distribution

Domestic Segment

Generally, U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores' merchandise, except for major appliances
and large-screen televisions, is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers located throughout the U.S. Major appliances and large-screen televisions are shipped to satellite
warehouses in each major market. These stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected
products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution
centers to stores, though Pacific Sales stores' merchandise is generally fulfilled directly to customers through two distribution centers in California. Generally, U.S. Best Buy online
merchandise sales are either picked up at U.S. Best Buy stores or fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers.

International Segment

Our small-format The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers
across Europe. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores. Stores hold the immediate stock requirement and the distribution center in each market holds
additional inventory. Our large-format Best Buy branded stores in the U.K. have distribution methods similar to that of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Our
Canada stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution centers in British Columbia and Ontario. Our Canada stores are dependent upon the distribution centers for
inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to our
stores from manufacturers and distributors. Contract carriers ship merchandise from the distribution centers to stores.

We
receive our Five Star stores' merchandise at more than 40 distribution centers and warehouses located throughout the Five Star retail chain, the largest of which is located in Nanjing, Jiangsu
Province. Our Five Star stores are dependent











upon
the distribution centers for inventory storage and the shipment of most merchandise to our stores or customers. Large merchandise, such as major appliances, is generally fulfilled directly to
customers through our distribution centers and warehouses.

Merchandise
for our Best Buy branded stores in China is shipped directly from our suppliers to our distribution center in Shanghai. Our Best Buy branded stores in China are dependent
upon the distribution center for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain
merchandise is shipped directly to our stores from manufacturers and distributors. In certain circumstances, merchandise is shipped directly to our customers from manufacturers and distributors.

Our
Best Buy branded stores in Mexico and Turkey have distribution methods similar to that of our U.S. Best Buy stores.

Suppliers

Our strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to offer customers a broad selection of name-brand products and, therefore, our success is dependent
upon satisfactory and stable supplier relationships. In fiscal 2011, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for just under 65% of the merchandise we purchased, with five suppliers —
Apple, Samsung, Sony, Hewlett-Packard and Toshiba — representing 39% of total merchandise purchased. The loss of or disruption in supply from any one of these major suppliers could
have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with
merchandise. We have no indication that any of our suppliers plan to discontinue selling us merchandise. We have not experienced significant difficulty in maintaining
satisfactory sources of supply, and we generally expect that adequate sources of supply will continue to exist for the types of merchandise we sell.

We
operate a global sourcing office in China in order to design, develop, test and contract manufacture our own line of exclusive brand products in association with factories in Asia.

Store Development

The addition of new stores has played a significant role in our growth and success. Our store development program has historically focused on testing
stores in new markets; adding stores within existing markets; and relocating, remodeling and expanding existing stores in order to offer new products and services to our customers. We actively monitor
our existing store portfolio, and where necessary, take steps to grow, modify, enhance, relocate or close those stores based on our judgment of future potential returns.

In
our Domestic segment, we will continue to focus on enhancing existing stores to target high growth value propositions, increasing our presence in small-format stores like Best Buy Mobile,
and moderating large-format store square footage growth. In our International segment, store investments will focus on growth areas such as Five Star in China, as well as selectively expanding the
number of Best Buy branded stores in the relatively new markets of the U.K. and Mexico.

Domestic Segment

During fiscal 2011, we opened 134 new stores and closed seven stores in our Domestic segment. We offer Geek Squad support services and the
Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all U.S. Best Buy stores.









The
following tables show our Domestic segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

U.S. Best BuyStoresU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific SalesStoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresGeek SquadStoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20101,069743566Stores opened31103———Stores closed(1)———(6)Total stores at end of fiscal 20111,099177356—



U.S. Best Buy StoresU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific Sales StoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresGeek Squad StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 20091,023383466Stores opened46361——Stores closed—————Total stores at end of fiscal 20101,069743566



U.S. Best Buy StoresU.S. Best BuyMobile StoresPacific Sales StoresMagnolia AudioVideo StoresGeek Squad StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2008923919137Stores opened1003215——Stores closed—(3)—(7)(1)Total stores at end of fiscal 20091,023383466

International Segment

During fiscal 2011, we opened 123 new stores and closed 103 stores in our International segment, primarily within our Best Buy Europe business.
We offer Geek Squad support services in all Best Buy branded stores and within select The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House stores in the U.K and Spain, as well as similar Connect Pro
branded services in Future Shop stores. We offer the Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store experience in all Best Buy branded stores in Canada, with a similar Cell Shop branded concept in the
majority of Future Shop stores.

The
following tables show our International segment stores open at the beginning and end of each of the last three fiscal years:

EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyBest Buy StoresTheCarphoneWarehouseand The PhoneHouse StoresFutureShopStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyMobileStoresBest BuyStores(1)Five StarStoresBest BuyStoresBest BuyStores(1)Total stores at end of fiscal 2010—2,453144644615851Stores opened68627621211Stores closed—(99)————(4)——Total stores at end of fiscal 201162,4401467110816662

(1)On
February 21, 2011, we announced plans to exit the Turkey market and restructure the Best Buy branded stores in China during fiscal 2012.









EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyBest BuyStoresTheCarphoneWarehouseand The PhoneHouse StoresFuture Shop StoresBest Buy StoresBest Buy Mobile StoresBest Buy StoresFive Star StoresBest Buy StoresBest Buy StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2009—2,46513958351641—Stores opened—825611641Stores closed—(94)————(12)——Total stores at end of fiscal 2010—2,453144644615851



EuropeCanadaChinaMexicoTurkeyBest BuyStoresTheCarphoneWarehouse andThe PhoneHouse StoresFuture Shop StoresBest Buy StoresBest Buy Mobile StoresBest Buy StoresFive Star StoresBest Buy StoresBest Buy StoresTotal stores at end of fiscal 2008——13151—1160——Stores acquired(1)—2,414———————Stores opened—105973491—Stores closed—(54)(1)———(5)——Total stores at end of fiscal 2009—2,46513958351641—

(1)Acquired
on June 28, 2008.

Fiscal 2012 Store Opening Plans

For fiscal 2012, our new store opening plans include the opening of approximately 150 Best Buy Mobile small-format stand-alone stores in the
U.S. We also plan to open 40-50 Five Star stores in growing markets in China. Finally, we plan to open approximately six to eight U.S. Best Buy stores and approximately 18
large-format Best Buy branded stores throughout Canada, the U.K. and Mexico.

Intellectual Property

We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to, "Best
Buy," "Best Buy Mobile," "The Carphone Warehouse," "Dynex," "Five Star," "Future Shop," "Geek Squad," "Init," "Insignia," "Magnolia," "Napster," "Pacific Sales," "The Phone House,"
"Rocketfish," and our "Yellow Tag" logo.

We
have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual
property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our Web sites.

Seasonality

Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. Historically, we have realized more of our revenue and earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter,
which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Europe and Canada, than in any other fiscal quarter.









Working Capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows generated from
operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities. Our working capital needs are typically greatest in the months
leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventories in advance of expected sales.

Customers

We do not have a significant concentration of sales with any individual customer and, therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a
material impact on our business. No single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue.

Backlog

Our stores, call centers and online shopping sites do not have a material amount of backlog orders.

Government Contracts

No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of any
government or government agencies or affiliates.

Competition

Our primary competitors are discount chains, consumer electronics retailers including vendors who offer their products direct to the consumer,
wholesale clubs, home-improvement superstores and internet-based businesses.

We
believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, store and online experience, broad product assortment, distinct store formats and brand marketing strategies differentiate us from our competitors by
positioning our stores and Web sites as the preferred destination for new technology and entertainment products in a fun and informative shopping environment.

Research and Development

We have not engaged in any material research and development activities during the past three fiscal years.

Environmental Matters

While seeking and discovering new and innovative ways to engage our customers in the connected world, we also strive to lessen our impact on the
environment. Our energy efficiency strategy includes end-to-end efforts to reduce energy use in our own internal operations and of the products and services we offer our customers. And with an
expanding selection of our internally developed exclusive brand products, we continue to make efforts to provide products that use less energy, are made of non-toxic materials and are packaged in more
responsible ways.

Our
energy efficient practices include a centralized automated energy management system for our U.S. Best Buy stores and retail energy reports by store. Lighting and HVAC upgrades, as well as
aiming to build new stores to Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design ("LEED") standards, are also part of our continuing efforts. These energy efficiency improvements have helped us reduce
our own carbon footprint. In calendar 2010, we set a new long-term goal of reducing our carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020 (over a 2009 baseline). During calendar 2010, we reduced our total
carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 0.5% in our U.S. Best Buy stores over the previous year. However, given that our total square footage increased by 2.9% in calendar 2010, the 0.5%
reduction represented a 3.2% reduction on a per square foot basis.









Increasing consumer demand for environmentally friendly products and services has led us to provide new energy efficient products and a means to recycle old products. We helped
our U.S. Best Buy customers purchase over 22 million ENERGY STAR® qualified products in calendar 2010 and encouraged our vendors to participate in the ENERGY STAR program.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimated that our sales of these products in calendar 2010 resulted in customer savings of 1.12 billion kilowatt hours of energy, generating over
$120 million in electric utility bill savings, while preventing over 1.7 billion pounds of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. As part of our strategy, we are also investing in
emerging technologies such as home energy management systems for all the connected devices in a home, renewable energy technologies and electric transportation.

In
addition, in calendar 2009, we launched a nationwide consumer electronics take-back program where customers can bring many consumer electronics products to our stores for free recycling. This
recycling program is available in all U.S. Best Buy stores. We also collect old, inefficient appliances for recycling through a haul-away program. In fiscal 2011, our recycling program
collected approximately 83 million pounds of consumer electronics and approximately 73 million pounds of old appliances, reducing the amount of electronic waste that would otherwise have
been sent to landfills. These efforts marked an 11% increase over the 140 million combined pounds of consumer electronics and appliances collected in fiscal 2010.

Continued
efforts to be more environmentally conscious in our exclusive brands packaging focused on the use of recycled materials, non-solvent coatings and organic inks where possible. Through a
variety of opportunities, we reduced plastic usage by 745 tons and eliminated 890 tons of PVC within our exclusive brands packaging during fiscal 2011.

We
are not aware of any federal, state or local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment, that have materially affected, or are reasonably expected to materially affect, our net earnings or competitive position, or have resulted or are reasonably expected to result in material
capital expenditures. See Item 1A,Risk Factors, for additional discussion.

We
believe we can continue to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions in cost effective ways that deliver value to our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities we serve, whether
it's in our own internal operations or through our work to connect customers with more energy efficient solutions.

Number of Employees

At the end of fiscal 2011, we employed approximately 180,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees worldwide. We consider our employee relations
to be good. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory requirements, which we believe are competitive in
the aggregate relative to others in our industry.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

We operate two reportable segments: Domestic and International. Financial information regarding the Domestic and International geographic areas is
included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 12,Segment and Geographic
Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy
statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at:

SEC
Public Reference Room100 F Street NEWashington, D.C. 20549









Information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports,
proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's Web site atwww.sec.gov.

We
make available, free of charge on our Web site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with,
or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.bby.com— select the "Investor Relations" link and then
the "SEC Filings" link.

We
also make available, free of charge on our Web site, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ("Board") and our Code of Business Ethics (including any amendment to, or waiver
from, a provision of our Code of Business Ethics) adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board's committees: Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Finance
and Investment Policy Committee, Global Strategy Committee and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our Web site atwww.bby.com— select
the "Investor Relations" link and then the "Corporate Governance" link.

Copies
of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:

Best Buy
Co., Inc.Investor Relations Department7601 Penn Avenue SouthRichfield, MN 55423-3645

