Item 1.  Business.



Unless the context otherwise requires, the use of the terms "we," "us" and "our" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to Best Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries.



Description of Business



We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966 as Sound of Music, Inc. Today, we are a multi-national, multi-channel retailer of technology products, including tablets and computers, televisions, mobile phones, large and small appliances, entertainment products, digital imaging and related accessories. We also offer technology services – including technical support, repair and installation – under the Geek Squad brand. We operate e-commerce operations, retail stores and call centers and conduct operations under a variety of names, such as Best Buy (BestBuy.com, BestBuy.ca), Best Buy Mobile, Five Star, Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales. References to our website addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites.



Information About Our Segments and Geographic Areas



During fiscal 2014, we operated two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all states, districts and territories of the U.S., operating under various brand names including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Geek Squad, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales. We operate Best Buy Mobile stores-within-a-store and offer Geek Squad services in all of our U.S. Best Buy stores. In addition, we operate Magnolia Home Theater, Magnolia Design Center and Pacific Kitchen and Home store-within-a-store experiences in select U.S. Best Buy stores, which we believe further enhance the unique product offerings and high-touch customer service provided in the stand-alone stores.



On February 1, 2014, we sold mindSHIFT Technologies, Inc. (“mindSHIFT”). We had previously acquired mindSHIFT, a managed service provider for small and mid-sized businesses, in fiscal 2012.



The International segment is comprised of: (i) all Canada operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Cell Shop, Connect Pro, Future Shop and Geek Squad; (ii) all China operations, operating under the brand names Five Star and Best Buy Mobile and (iii) all Mexico operations, operating under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Express and Geek Squad. We operate Best Buy Mobile store-within-a-store concepts in all Best Buy branded stores in Canada, as well as in select Five Star stores.



In fiscal 2009, we acquired a 50% controlling interest in Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited (“Best Buy Europe”), a venture with Carphone Warehouse Group plc (“CPW”). On June 26, 2013, we sold our 50% ownership interest in Best Buy Europe to CPW.



In order to align our fiscal reporting periods and comply with statutory filing requirements in certain foreign jurisdictions, we consolidate the financial results of our Europe, China and Mexico operations on a one-month lag. Consistent with such consolidation, the financial and non-financial information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relative to our Europe, China and Mexico operations is also presented on a one-month lag.



Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is included in Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 12,Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Operations



Domestic Segment



Our Domestic segment is managed by a Domestic leadership team responsible for all areas of the business. The Domestic segment operates a multi-channel platform that provides customers the ability to shop when and where they want, including online and in our retail stores.











Merchandise selection, pricing and promotions, procurement and supply chain, marketing and advertising, and labor deployment across all channels are centrally controlled at our corporate headquarters. In addition, support capabilities (e.g., human resources, finance and real estate management) are generally performed at our corporate headquarters. We also have field operations that support the store managers and retail store employees. Our retail stores have procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are largely standardized within each store brand. All stores within each store brand generally operate under standard procedures with a degree of flexibility for store management to address certain local market characteristics.



International Segment



Our International President is responsible for all areas of our International segment. Leaders of our International businesses report directly to the International President.



Our Canada store operations are similar to those in our Domestic segment, with centrally controlled advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, and inventory policies. In addition, corporate management performs support capabilities. Similar to our U.S. Best Buy stores, all Canada stores use a standardized operating system that includes procedures for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, staff training and merchandise display. The retail operations include two principal store brands. Future Shop stores have predominantly commissioned sales associates, whereas employees in Best Buy branded stores in Canada, like employees in U.S. Best Buy stores, are noncommissioned.



Our Five Star stores primarily utilize vendor employees and full-time sales associates to sell our products. Corporate retail management generally controls advertising, merchandise purchasing and pricing, and inventory policies, although management for individual regions within our Five Star brand may vary these operations to adapt to local customer needs.



Our stores in Mexico employ an operating model similar to that used in our U.S. Best Buy stores.



Merchandise and Services



Domestic Segment



Our online channel and U.S. retail stores have offerings in six revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Appliances, Services and Other. Consumer Electronics consists primarily of television and home theater; digital cameras and camcorders; DVD and Blu-ray players; portable electronics such as MP3 devices, headphones and speakers, car stereo, navigation and satellite radio; and all related accessories. The Computing and Mobile Phones revenue category includes notebook and desktop computers, tablets and e-Readers, mobile phones and related subscription service commissions, and all related accessories. The Entertainment revenue category includes video gaming hardware and software, DVDs, Blu-rays, CDs, digital downloads and computer software. The Appliances revenue category includes both large and small appliances and kitchen and bath fixtures, including faucets, sinks, toilets and bathtubs. The Services revenue category consists primarily of extended warranty service contracts, technical support, product repair, delivery and installation. The Other revenue category includes non-core offerings such as snacks and beverages. The merchandise and service offerings vary across our stand-alone store portfolio, with U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores offering a more focused assortment.



International Segment



In Canada, the Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores have offerings in Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Services and Other, and at Future Shop only, Appliances. Although Future Shop and Best Buy branded stores in Canada offer similar products, there are differences in brands and depth of selection. Further, Geek Squad services are only available in the Best Buy branded stores, with Future Shop's service offerings branded as Connect Pro.



In China, our Five Star stores have offerings in four revenue categories: Appliances, Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones and Services. The products and services in these revenue categories are similar to those of our Domestic segment.



Our stores in Mexico have offerings in six revenue categories: Consumer Electronics, Computing and Mobile Phones, Entertainment, Appliances, Services and Other, with products and services similar to those of our Domestic segment.











Distribution



Domestic Segment



U.S. Best Buy online merchandise sales generally are either picked up at U.S. Best Buy stores or delivered directly to customers from a distribution center or, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, a retail store. The ship-from-store capability allows us to improve product availability and delivery times for customers. Most merchandise for our U.S. Best Buy, U.S. Best Buy Mobile, Magnolia Audio Video and Pacific Sales stores is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers or warehouses located throughout the U.S. In order to meet release dates for certain products, merchandise may be shipped directly to our stores from suppliers.



International Segment



Our Canada stores' merchandise is shipped directly from our suppliers to our Canadian distribution centers. In order to meet release dates for certain products, merchandise may also be shipped directly to our stores from suppliers.



We receive our Five Star stores' merchandise at distribution centers and warehouses, the largest of which is located in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province. Large merchandise, such as major appliances, is generally fulfilled directly to customers through our distribution centers and warehouses.



Our stores in Mexico have distribution methods similar to that of our U.S. Best Buy stores.



Suppliers and Inventory



Our Domestic and International segment purchase merchandise from a variety of suppliers. In fiscal 2014, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 70% of the merchandise we purchased, with 5 suppliers – Apple, Samsung, Hewlett-Packard, Sony and LG Electronics – representing approximately 45% of total merchandise purchased. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise.



We carefully monitor and manage our inventory levels to match quantities on hand with consumer demand as closely as possible. Key elements to our inventory management process include the following: continuous monitoring of historical and projected consumer demand, continuous monitoring and adjustment of inventory receipt levels, agreements with vendors relating to reimbursement for the cost of markdowns or sales incentives, and agreements with vendors relating to return privileges for certain products.



We also have a global sourcing operation to design, develop, test and contract-manufacture our own line of exclusive brand products.



Store Development



Domestic Segment



During fiscal 2014, the number of stores we operated remained relatively flat, but we continued to evaluate how to best leverage our store portfolio. Most notably, we rolled out ship-from-store to more than 1,400 locations, opened 1,400 Samsung and 600 Windows stores-within-a-store, and completed the first phase of our store space optimization. In fiscal 2015, we will continue to evaluate our Domestic store portfolio, including renegotiating leases and selectively opening or closing locations, as needed, to support our ongoing transformation.



International Segment



In our International segment, we opened 13 new stores and closed 27 stores in fiscal 2014. Store openings were primarily driven by Best Buy Mobile stores in Canada and Best Buy stores in Mexico. Store closures were primarily driven by Five Star stores in China. In fiscal 2015, we expect to continue to review our portfolio of stores across all geographies.



Refer to Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,for tables reconciling our Domestic and International segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years.











Intellectual Property



We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to,Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile, Dynex, Five Star, Future Shop, Geek Squad, Init, Insignia, Magnolia, Pacific Sales, Rocketfish, and ourYellow Taglogo.



We have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our websites.



Seasonality



Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. A higher proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Canada and Mexico.



Working Capital



We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and investment opportunities. Our working capital needs typically increase in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventory in advance of expected sales.



Competition



Our competitors are primarily traditional store-based retailers, multi-channel retailers, internet-based businesses and vendors who offer their products directly to the consumer.



Some of our competitors have low cost operating structures and seek to compete for sales primarily on price. In addition, in the U.S., online-only operators are exempt from collecting sales taxes in certain states. We believe this advantage will continue to be eroded as sales tax rules are re-evaluated at both the state and federal levels. We carefully monitor pricing offered by other retailers and investing in price competitiveness is one of our ongoing priorities. In addition, we have a price-matching policy in the U.S. that allows customers to request that we match a price offered by certain retail store and online operators. In order to allow this, we are focused on maintaining efficient operations and leveraging the economies of scale available to us through our global vendor partnerships.



In addition to price, we believe our ability to deliver a high quality customer experience offers us a key competitive advantage. We believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, integrated online and store channels, broad product assortment, range of focused service and support offerings, distinct store formats, brand marketing strategies and supply chain are important ways in which we maintain this advantage.



Environmental Matters



We are working to transform our company in many ways, including lessening our environmental impact. In the U.S., consumers recycle more electronics through Best Buy than any other retailer. We set a goal to collect one billion pounds of consumer electronics and appliances for recycling from June 2008 through December 2014. In fiscal 2014, we collected about 118 million pounds of consumer electronics and 112 million pounds of appliances, bringing our overall total to approximately 930 million pounds.



We offer a large selection of energy-efficient products to help customers save money by using less energy. Our U.S. Best Buy customers purchased more than 20 million ENERGY STAR® certified products in fiscal 2014 and realized utility bill savings of more than $76 million. This energy saving equates to over 1 billion pounds of CO2avoidance, or the equivalent of removing more than 98,000 cars from U.S. roads.



We are continuously working to make our stores and distribution centers more sustainable and to increase efficiency within our supply chain. In calendar 2010, we set a goal of reducing our absolute carbon emissions in North America by 20% by the year 2020 (over a 2009 baseline). During fiscal 2014, our retail stores, distribution centers and corporate offices reduced more than 15,000 metric tons of CO2emissions through energy efficiency measures.











We are not aware of any federal, state or local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, that have materially affected, or are reasonably expected to materially affect, our net earnings or competitive position, or have resulted, or are reasonably expected to result in, material capital expenditures. See Item 1A,Risk Factors, for additional discussion.



Number of Employees



At the end of fiscal 2014, we employed approximately140,000full-time, part-time and seasonal employees worldwide. We consider our employee relations to be good. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory requirements, which we believe are competitive in the aggregate relative to others in our industry.



Available Information



We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our website atwww.investors.bestbuy.com– select the "Financial Performance" link and then the "SEC Filings" link. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



We also make available, free of charge on our website, our Amended and Restated By-laws, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ("Board") and our Code of Business Ethics (including any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Ethics) adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board's committees: Audit Committee; Compensation and Human Resources Committee; Finance and Investment Policy Committee; and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our website atwww.investors.bestbuy.com– select the "Corporate Governance" link.



Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to Best Buy Co., Inc. Investor Relations Department at 7601 Penn Avenue South, Richfield, MN 55423-3645.





