ITEM 1A.

RISK
    FACTORS (dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per
    pound amounts)

Our business activities are subject to significant risks,
    including those described below. Every investor or potential
    investor in our securities should carefully consider these
    risks. If any of the described risks actually occurs, our
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected. Such risks are not the only ones
    we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect
    our business.

A substantial
    or extended decline in gold or copper prices would have a
    material adverse effect on Newmont.

Our business is dependent on the price of gold and copper, which
    are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Factors
    tending to influence prices include:

•

gold sales or leasing by governments and central banks or
    changes in their monetary policy, including gold inventory
    management and reallocation of reserves;

•

speculative short positions taken by significant investors or
    traders in gold or copper;

•

the strength of the U.S. dollar;

•

recession or reduced economic activity in the United States and
    other industrialized or developing countries;

•

decreased industrial, jewelry or investment demand;

•

increased supply from production, disinvestment and scrap;

•

forward sales by producers in hedging or similar
    transactions; and

•

availability of cheaper substitute materials.

Any decline in our realized gold or copper price adversely
    impacts our revenues, net income and cash flows, particularly in
    light of our strategy of not engaging in hedging transactions
    with respect to



gold or copper. We have recorded asset write-downs in the past
    and may experience additional write-downs as a result of low
    gold or copper prices in the future.

In addition, sustained lower gold or copper prices can:

•

reduce revenues further through production declines due to
    cessation of the mining of deposits, or portions of deposits,
    that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold or
    copper price;

•

reduce or eliminate the profit that we currently expect from ore
    stockpiles and ore on leach pads;

•

halt or delay the development of new projects;

•

reduce funds available for exploration with the result that
    depleted reserves may not be replaced; and

•

reduce existing reserves by removing ores from reserves that can
    no longer be economically processed at prevailing prices.

Also see the discussion in Item 1, Business, Gold or Copper
    Price.

We may be
    unable to replace gold and copper reserves as they become
    depleted.

Gold and copper producers must continually replace reserves
    depleted by production to maintain production levels over the
    long term and provide a return on invested capital. Depleted
    reserves can be replaced in several ways, including by expanding
    known ore bodies, by locating new deposits, or by acquiring
    interests in reserves from third parties. Exploration is highly
    speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is
    unproductive. Our current or future exploration programs may not
    result in new mineral producing operations. In addition, for the
    year 2009, the global exploration budget was reduced
    significantly as compared to prior years, which may adversely
    affect the timing and extent of new mineral discoveries and the
    future replacement of reserves. Even if significant
    mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years
    from the initial phases of exploration until production, during
    which time the economic feasibility of production may change.

We may consider, from time to time, the acquisition of ore
    reserves related to development properties and operating mines.
    Such acquisitions are typically based on an analysis of a
    variety of factors including historical operating results,
    estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of ore
    reserves, the timing of production from such reserves and cash
    and other operating costs. Other factors that affect our
    decision to make any such acquisitions may also include our
    assumptions for future gold prices or other mineral prices and
    the projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or
    potential liabilities associated with the property and its
    operations and projections of how these may change in the
    future. In addition, in connection with future acquisitions we
    may rely on data and reports prepared by third parties and which
    may contain information or data that we are unable to
    independently verify or confirm. Other than historical operating
    results, all of these factors are uncertain and may have an
    impact on our revenue, our cash and other operating issues, as
    well as contributing to the uncertainties related to the process
    used to estimate ore reserves. In addition, there may be intense
    competition for the acquisition of attractive mining properties.

As a result of these uncertainties, our exploration programs and
    any acquisitions which we may pursue may not result in the
    expansion or replacement of our current production with new ore
    reserves or operations, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial condition.



Estimates of
    proven and probable reserves are uncertain and the volume and
    grade of ore actually recovered may vary from our
    estimates.

Estimates of proven and probable reserves are subject to
    considerable uncertainty. Such estimates are, to a large extent,
    based on the price of gold and interpretations of geologic data
    obtained from drill holes and other exploration techniques.
    Producers use feasibility studies to derive estimates of capital
    and operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of
    ore to be mined and processed, the predicted configuration of
    the ore body, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore,
    the costs of comparable facilities, the costs of operating and
    processing equipment and other factors. Actual operating costs
    and economic returns on projects may differ significantly from
    original estimates. Further, it may take many years from the
    initial phase of exploration before production and, during that
    time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may
    change.

In addition, if the price of gold or copper declines from recent
    levels, if production costs increase or recovery rates decrease,
    or if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, we
    can offer no assurance that the indicated level of recovery will
    be realized or that mineral reserves as currently reported can
    be mined or processed profitably. If we determine that certain
    of our ore reserves have become uneconomic, this may ultimately
    lead to a reduction in our aggregate reported reserves.
    Consequently, if our actual mineral reserves and resources are
    less than current estimates, our business, prospects, results of
    operations and financial condition may be materially impaired.

Increased
    operating costs could affect our profitability.

Costs at any particular mining location are subject to variation
    due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, changing
    metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the
    physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs
    are affected by the price of input commodities, such as fuel,
    electricity, labor, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and
    concrete. Commodity costs are, at times, subject to volatile
    price movements, including increases that could make production
    at certain operations less profitable, and to changes in laws
    and regulations affecting their price, use and transport.
    Reported costs may also be affected by changes in accounting
    standards. A material increase in costs at any significant
    location could have a significant effect on our profitability
    and operating cash flow.

We could have significant increases in capital and operating
    costs over the next several years in connection with the
    development of new projects in challenging jurisdictions and in
    sustaining existing operations. Costs associated with capital
    expenditures have escalated on an industry-wide basis over the
    last several years, as a result of major factors beyond our
    control, including the prices of oil, steel and other
    commodities and labor. Increased costs for capital expenditures
    may have an adverse effect on the profitability of existing
    mining operations and economic returns anticipated from new
    mining projects.

Estimates
    relating to new development projects are uncertain and we may
    incur higher costs and lower economic returns than
    estimated.

Mine development projects typically require a number of years
    and significant expenditures during the development phase before
    production is possible. Our decision to develop a project is
    typically based on the feasibility studies results which
    estimate the anticipated economic returns of a project. The
    actual project profitability or economic feasibility may differ
    from such estimates as a result of any of the following factors,
    among others:

•

unanticipated changes in tonnage, grades and metallurgical
    characteristics of ore to be mined and processed;

•

higher than anticipated input commodity and labor costs;

•

the quality of the data on which engineering assumptions were
    made;

•

unanticipated adverse geotechnical conditions;

•

availability of adequate labor force and supply and cost of
    water and power;



•

fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates;

•

availability and terms of financing;

•

delays in obtaining environmental or other government permits or
    changes in the laws and regulations related to those permits;

•

unanticipated weather or severe climate impacts; and

•

potential delays relating to social and community issues.

Our future development activities may not result in the
    expansion or replacement of current production with new
    production, or one or more of these new production sites or
    facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or
    may not be profitable at all, any of which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.

We may
    experience increased costs or losses resulting from the hazards
    and uncertainties associated with mining.

The exploration for natural resources and the development and
    production of mining operations are activities that involve a
    high level of uncertainty. These can be difficult to predict and
    are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:

•

environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants
    or hazardous chemicals;

•

industrial accidents including in connection with the operation
    of mining transportation equipment and accidents associated with
    the preparation and ignition of large-scale blasting operations;

•

underground fires or floods;

•

encountering unexpected geological formations;

•

unanticipated ground and water conditions;

•

fall-of-ground

accidents in underground operations;

•

failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls;

•

seismic activity; and

•

other natural phenomena, such as floods or inclement weather
    conditions.

The occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with
    our mining operations may result in the death of, or personal
    injury to, our employees or other personnel, the loss of mining
    equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or
    production facilities, monetary losses, deferral or
    unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage
    and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely
    affect our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Shortages of
    critical parts, equipment and skilled labor may adversely affect
    our operations and development projects.

The industry has been impacted by increased demand for critical
    resources such as input commodities, drilling equipment, tires
    and skilled labor. These shortages have, at times, caused
    unanticipated cost increases and delays in delivery times,
    thereby impacting operating costs, capital expenditures and
    production schedules.



Compliance
    with the extensive and constantly changing environmental laws
    and regulations affecting mining operations requires ongoing
    expenditures from us, and actual or alleged non-compliance may
    subject us to significant penalties or to the revocation of
    existing or future exploration or mining rights.

Our exploration, mining and processing operations are regulated
    in all countries in which we operate under various federal,
    state, provincial and local laws relating to the protection of
    the environment, which generally include air and water quality,
    protection of protected species, hazardous waste management and
    reclamation. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes
    substantial costs and burdens, and can cause delays in
    obtaining, or failure to obtain, government permits and
    approvals which may adversely impact our operations. The
    regulatory environment in which we operate is constantly
    changing and may change in ways that would substantially
    increase costs to achieve compliance, or otherwise could have a
    material adverse effect on our operations or financial position.
    Additionally, our operations result in emissions of certain
    greenhouse gases that may be subject to regulation under
    legislative and regulatory measures recently enacted or in
    discussion. Such measures, if implemented, could result in
    increased costs to us and could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition or results of operations. For a more
    detailed discussion of potential environmental liabilities, see
    the discussion in Environmental Matters, Note 33 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Mine closure
    and remediation costs for environmental liabilities may exceed
    the provisions we have made.

Natural resource companies are required to close their
    operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in
    accordance with a variety of environmental laws and regulations.
    Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs
    for gold and copper mining operations are significant and based
    principally on current legal and regulatory requirements and
    mine closure plans that may change materially. Any
    underestimated or unanticipated rehabilitation costs could
    materially affect our asset values, earnings and cash flows.
    Environmental liabilities are accrued when they become known,
    probable and can be reasonably estimated. Whenever a previously
    unrecognized remediation liability becomes known, or a
    previously estimated reclamation cost is increased, the amount
    of that liability and additional cost will be recorded at that
    time and could materially reduce our consolidated net income in
    the related period. In addition, regulators are increasingly
    requesting security in the form of cash collateral, credit, or
    trust arrangements or guarantees to secure the performance of
    environmental obligations, which could have an adverse effect on
    our financial condition.

We have conducted extensive remediation work at two inactive
    sites in the United States. We are conducting mill remediation
    activities at a third site in the United States, an inactive
    uranium mine and mill formerly operated by a subsidiary of
    Newmont, but remediation at the mine is subject to dispute. In
    late 2008, the EPA issued an order regarding water management at
    the mine. The environmental standards that may ultimately be
    imposed at this site remain uncertain and a risk exists that the
    costs of remediation may exceed the financial accruals that have
    been made for such remediation by a material amount. For a more
    detailed discussion of potential environmental liabilities, see
    the discussion in Environmental Matters, Note 33 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulations
    and pending legislation governing issues involving climate
    change could result in increased operating costs which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business.

A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced
    or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the
    potential impacts of climate change. The December 1997 Kyoto
    Protocol, which ends in 2012, established a set of greenhouse
    gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified
    the Protocol, which include Ghana, Australia and Peru. The
    Conference of Parties 15 (“COP15”) of the United
    Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in
    Copenhagen, Denmark in December 2009 was to determine the path
    forward after the Kyoto Protocol ends. COP15 resulted in the
    Copenhagen Accord (the “Accord”), a non-binding
    document calling for economy-wide



emissions targets for 2020. Prior to the January 31, 2010
    deadline, the United States, Australia, New Zealand and
    Indonesia, Ghana and Peru re-affirmed their commitment to the
    Accord. The U.S. Congress and several U.S. states have
    initiated legislation regarding climate change that will affect
    energy prices and demand for carbon intensive products. In
    December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
    issued an endangerment finding under the U.S. Clean Air Act
    that current and projected concentrations of certain mixed
    greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, in the atmosphere
    threaten the public health and welfare. It is possible that
    proposed regulation may be promulgated in the U.S. to
    address the concerns raised by such endangerment finding.
    Additionally, the Australian Government may potentially
    reintroduce a national emissions trading scheme and mandatory
    renewable energy targets. Legislation and increased regulation
    regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us,
    our venture partners and our suppliers, including increased
    energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and
    reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any
    adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively
    impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas
    not subject to such limitations. Until the timing, scope and
    extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict
    the effect on our financial condition, operating performance and
    ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation,
    increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global
    marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or
    other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The
    potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations
    are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic
    circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include
    changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water
    shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These
    impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial
    performance of our operations.

Our
    operations, particularly those outside North America and
    Australia/New Zealand, are subject to risks of doing
    business.

Exploration, development, production and mine closure
    activities, particularly those outside of North America and
    Australia/New Zealand, potentially are subject to political and
    economic risks, including:

•

disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that
    are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•

changes in laws or regulations;

•

royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities,
    including retroactive increases and claims and requests to
    renegotiate terms of existing royalties and taxes;

•

delays in obtaining or the inability to obtain or maintain
    necessary governmental permits;

•

expropriation or nationalization of property;

•

currency fluctuations, particularly in countries with high
    inflation;

•

foreign exchange controls;

•

restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell
    gold offshore for U.S. dollars, or on the ability of such
    companies to hold U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies
    in offshore bank accounts;

•

import and export regulations, including restrictions on the
    export of gold;

•

restrictions on the ability to pay dividends offshore or to
    otherwise repatriate funds;

•

risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla
    activities, insurrection and terrorism;

•

risk of loss due to disease and other potential endemic health
    issues; and

•

other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in
    which our operations are conducted, including risks inherent in
    contracts with government owned entities such as unilateral
    cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, licenses or other
    mining rights.



Consequently, our exploration, development and production
    activities, particularly those outside of North America and
    Australia/New Zealand, may be affected by these and other
    factors, many of which are beyond our control, some of which
    could materially adversely affect our financial position or
    results of operations. Furthermore, if a dispute arises from
    such activities, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction
    of courts outside North America or Australia/New Zealand, which
    could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute.

Our Batu Hijau
    operation in Indonesia is subject to political and economic
    risks.

We have a substantial investment in Indonesia, a nation that
    since 1997 has undergone financial crises and devaluation of its
    currency, outbreaks of political and religious violence and acts
    of terrorism, changes in national leadership, and the secession
    of East Timor, one of its former provinces. These factors
    heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy
    toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in
    unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased
    taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation
    of assets. Subsequent to the commencement of operations, the
    government designated the land surrounding Batu Hijau as a
    protection forest, which could make operating permits more
    difficult to obtain. We have been in discussions with the
    Indonesian government to obtain an additional forest use permit
    necessary to make certain amendments to the Batu Hijau
    environmental management plan and environmental monitoring plan,
    including modifications with respect to the mine’s pit
    slope stability. This permit is a key requirement to continue to
    operate Batu Hijau efficiently and to the ultimate life of the
    mine and recoverability of reserves. However, the permit has not
    been received as of the date of this Annual Report. No
    assurances can be made regarding when or whether the permit and
    any related plan amendments will be approved. The resulting
    delay may adversely impact the Batu Hijau mine plan, and may
    adversely impact future operating and financial results,
    including deferment or cancellation of future development and
    operations.

Presidential and parliamentary elections recently took place,
    and although the president was re-elected, new ministers or
    members of parliament may have different (and potentially more
    negative) views relating to mining in general, a preference for
    national mining companies to own such countries mineral assets,
    or relative to our assets and operations.

Violence committed by radical elements in Indonesia and other
    countries, and the presence of U.S. forces in Iraq and
    Afghanistan, may increase the risk that operations owned by
    U.S. companies will be the target of violence. If our Batu
    Hijau operation were so targeted it could have an adverse effect
    on our business.

Our ownership
    interest in PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”) in
    Indonesia has been reduced in accordance with the Contract of
    Work issued by the Indonesian Government. The Contract of Work
    has been and may continue to be the subject of dispute, and
    future reductions in our interest in PTNNT may result in our
    loss of control over the Batu Hijau operations. Moreover the
    Contract of Work is subject to termination if we do not comply
    with our obligations, and loss of the Contract of Work would
    result in loss of all or much of the value of Batu
    Hijau.

We operate Batu Hijau and currently have a 35.44% ownership
    interest, held through the Nusa Tenggara Partnership
    (“NTP”) with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation of
    Japan. We have a 56.25% interest in NTP and a Sumitomo affiliate
    holds the remaining 43.75%. NTP in turn owns 63% of PTNNT, the
    Indonesian subsidiary that owns Batu Hijau. In December 2009,
    the Company entered into a transaction with P.T. Pukuafu
    Indah (“PTPI”), an unrelated noncontrolling partner of
    PTNNT, whereby we agreed to advance certain funds to PTPI in
    exchange for a pledge of the noncontrolling partner’s 20%
    share of PTNNT dividends, net of withholding tax, and the
    assignment of its voting rights to the Company. As a result,
    PTPI was determined to be a Variable Interest Entity
    (“VIE”) as it has minimal equity capital and the
    voting rights to its 20% interest in PTNNT reside with Newmont.
    Based on the above transaction, the Company recognized an
    additional 17% effective economic interest in PTNNT. Combined
    with the Company’s 56.25% ownership in NTP, Newmont has a
    52.44% effective economic interest in PTNNT and continues to
    consolidate Batu Hijau in its Consolidated Financial Statements.
    The remaining 17% in PTNNT is owned by PT Multi Daerah Bersaing



(“PTMDB”), a consortium comprised of Indonesian
    regional and local governments, and PT Multicapital, an
    unrelated Indonesian company.

Under the Contract of Work executed in 1986 between the
    Indonesian government and PTNNT, beginning in 2006 and
    continuing through 2010, a portion of PTNNT’s shares must
    be offered for sale, first, to the Indonesian government or,
    second, to Indonesian nationals, such portion equal to the
    difference between the following percentages and the percentage
    of shares already owned by the Indonesian government or
    Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 23% by
    March 31, 2006; 30% by March 31, 2007; 37% by
    March 31, 2008; 44% by March 31, 2009; and 51% by
    March 31, 2010. The price at which such interest must be
    offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the
    then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares would
    be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the
    fair market value of such interest as a going concern, as agreed
    with the Indonesian government. Pursuant to this provision, the
    ownership interest in the Batu Hijau mine’s proven and
    probable equity reserves may be reduced in the future to as low
    as 27.56% and ownership interest of NTP in PTNNT could be
    reduced to 49%, thus reducing our ability to control the
    operation at Batu Hijau. In addition to affecting our level of
    control over operations over PTNNT, such loss of control may
    cause us to deconsolidate PTNNT for accounting purposes, which
    would reduce our reported consolidated sales, cost applicable to
    sales, amortization, total assets and operating cash flow
    attributable to PTNNT. See Note 32 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

PTPI has owned and continues to own a 20% interest in PTNNT, and
    therefore NTP was required to offer a 3% interest in the shares
    of PTNNT for sale in 2006 and an additional 7% interest in each
    of 2007, 2008 and 2009. In accordance with the Contract of Work,
    an offer to sell a 3% interest was made to the Indonesia
    government in 2006 and an offer for an additional 7% interest
    was made in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Following notifications
    from the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (the
    “DEMR”) alleging that PTNNT was in breach of its
    divestiture requirements under the Contract of Work and
    threatening to issue a notice to terminate the Contract of Work
    if PTNNT did not agree to divest the 2006, 2007, and
    2008 shares in accordance with the direction of the DEMR,
    the matter was submitted to an international arbitration panel.
    That panel ruled in March 2009 that the 2006, 2007 and
    2008 shares were required to be transferred by the end of
    September 2009, a deadline that was extended until
    November 23, 2009 by agreement between PTNNT and the
    Indonesian Government. In July 2009, the Company reached
    agreement with the Indonesian government on the price of the
    2008 7% interest and the 2009 7% interest and reoffered the 2008
    7% interest and the 2009 7% interest to the Indonesian
    government at this newly agreed price. In November and December
    2009, sales agreements were concluded pursuant to which the
    2006, 2007, and 2008 shares were transferred to PTMDB and
    2009 shares were committed to be transferred to PTMDB.
    Although the Indonesian government has acknowledged that PTNNT
    is no longer in breach of the Contract of Work, future disputes
    may arise as to the further divestiture of the shares. It is
    uncertain who will acquire any future divestiture shares, and
    the nature of our relations with the new owners of the 2006
    through 2009 shares and any future divestiture shares
    remain uncertain.

As part of the negotiation of the sale agreements with PTMDB,
    the parties executed an operating agreement under which each
    recognizes the right of NTP to operate Batu Hijau and binds the
    parties to adhere to NTP’s standards for safety,
    environmental stewardship and community responsibility. The
    operating agreement becomes effective upon the completion of the
    sale of the 2009 shares and continues for so long as NTP
    owns more shares of PTNNT than PTMDB. If the operating agreement
    terminates, then we will likely lose effective control over the
    operations of Batu Hijau and will be at risk for operations
    conducted in a manner that either detracts from value or results
    in safety, environmental or social standards below those adhered
    to by NTP. Moreover, there have been statements from time to
    time by some within the Indonesian government who advocate
    elimination of Contracts of Work and who may try to instigate
    future disputes surrounding the Contract of Work, particularly
    given that Batu Hijau is one of the largest businesses within
    the country. Although any dispute under the Contract of Work is
    subject to international arbitration, there can be no assurance
    that we would prevail in any such dispute and any termination of
    the Contract of Work could result in substantial diminution in
    the value of our interests in PTNNT.



Our Company
    and the mining industry are facing continued geotechnical
    challenges, which could adversely impact our production and
    profitability.

Newmont and the mining industry are facing continued
    geotechnical challenges due to a trend toward mining deeper pits
    and more complex deposits. This leads to higher pit walls, more
    complex underground environments and increased exposure to
    geotechnical instability. As our operations are maturing, the
    open pits at many of our sites are getting deeper and we have
    experienced certain geotechnical failures at some of our mines,
    including, without limitation, in Indonesia at the Batu Hijau
    open-pit mine. In September 2009, our affiliate, PTNNT,
    experienced a geotechnical failure of a portion of the west
    wall. Batu Hijau utilizes an advanced monitoring system that
    measures movement in the pit walls. As a result, no personnel
    were in the pit at the time of the failure and no injuries
    occurred. However, operations were temporarily suspended in
    order to engage in geotechnical review. Following the completion
    of remediation work, mining operations resumed at such location
    again in October 2009. Subsequently, in January 2010, a failure
    also occurred on a portion of the southeast wall causing a
    slide, which regrettably resulted in a fatality of one of the
    mine employees. Operations were temporarily suspended to conduct
    investigations and operations have since recommenced.

No absolute assurances can be given that unanticipated adverse
    geotechnical conditions, such a landslides and pit wall
    failures, will not occur in the future or that such events will
    be detected in advance. Geotechnical instabilities can be
    difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and hazards
    outside of our control, such as severe weather and considerable
    rainfall, which may lead to periodic floods, mudslides and wall
    instability, and seismic activity, which may result in slippage
    of material or mud/topsoil slides.

Geotechnical failures could result in limited or restricted
    access to mine sites, suspension of operations, government
    investigations, increased monitoring costs, remediation costs,
    loss of ore and other impacts, which could cause one or more of
    our projects to be less profitable than currently anticipated
    and could result in a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.

Our operations
    in Peru are subject to political risks.

During the last several years, Yanacocha, in which we own a
    51.35% interest, has been the target of numerous local political
    protests, including ones that blocked the road between the
    Yanacocha mine complex and the City of Cajamarca in Peru. In
    2004, local opposition to the Cerro Quilish project (which is
    located adjacent to Yanacocha) became so pronounced that
    Yanacocha decided to relinquish its drilling permit for Cerro
    Quilish and the deposit was reclassified from proven and
    probable reserves to non-reserve mineralization. In 2006 a road
    blockade was carried out by members of the Combayo community.
    This blockade was unrelated to Cerro Quilish and resulted in a
    brief cessation of mining activities. We cannot predict whether
    similar or more significant incidents will occur and the
    recurrence of significant community opposition or protests could
    adversely affect Yanacocha’s assets and operations. In
    2007, 2008, 2009 and thus far in 2010, no material roadblocks or
    protests occurred involving Yanacocha.

In December 2006, Yanacocha, along with other mining companies
    in Peru, entered into a five-year agreement with the central
    government to contribute 3.75% of net profits to fund social
    development projects. Although the current government has
    generally taken positions promoting private investment, we
    cannot predict future government positions on foreign
    investment, mining concessions, land tenure, environmental
    regulation or taxation. National elections are scheduled in
    April 2011 and a change in government positions on these issues
    could adversely affect Yanacocha’s assets and operations,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
    financial position and results of operations.

Our success
    depends on our social and environmental
    performance.

Our ability to operate successfully in communities around the
    world will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and
    close mines in a manner that is consistent with the health and
    safety of our employees, the protection of the environment, and
    the creation of long-term economic and social opportunities in
    the communities in which we operate. We have implemented a
    management system



designed to promote continuous improvement in health and safety,
    environmental performance and community relations. However, our
    ability to operate, and thus, our results of operations and our
    financial condition, could be adversely affected by accidents or
    events detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the
    health and safety of our employees, the environment or the
    communities in which we operate.

Remediation
    costs for environmental liabilities may exceed the provisions we
    have made.

We have conducted extensive remediation work at two inactive
    sites in the United States. We are conducting mill remediation
    activities at a third site in the United States, an inactive
    uranium mine and mill formerly operated by a subsidiary of
    Newmont, but remediation at the mine is subject to dispute. In
    late 2008 the EPA issued an order regarding water management at
    the mine. The environmental standards that may ultimately be
    imposed at this site remain uncertain and a risk exists that the
    costs of remediation may exceed the financial accruals that have
    been made for such remediation by a material amount. For a more
    detailed discussion of potential environmental liabilities, see
    the discussion in Environmental Matters, Note 33 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Whenever a previously unrecognized remediation liability becomes
    known, or a previously estimated reclamation cost is increased,
    the amount of that liability and additional cost will be
    recorded at that time and could materially reduce net income in
    that period.

Currency
    fluctuations may affect our costs.

Currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur at our
    operations. Gold and copper is sold throughout the world based
    principally on the U.S. dollar price, but a portion of our
    operating expenses are incurred in local currencies. The
    appreciation of those local currencies against the
    U.S. dollar increases our costs of production in
    U.S. dollar terms at mines located outside the
    United States.

The foreign currency that primarily impacts our results of
    operations is the Australian dollar. We estimate that every
    $0.10 increase in U.S. dollar/Australian dollar exchange
    rate increases annually the U.S. dollar

Costs applicable
    to sales

by approximately $40 for each ounce of gold
    produced from operations in Australia before taking into account
    the impact of currency hedging. From December 31, 2008 to
    December 31, 2009, the Australian dollar appreciated by
    approximately $0.21 per U.S. dollar, or approximately 30%.
    In mid-2007, we implemented derivative programs to hedge up to
    85% of our future forecasted Australian dollar denominated
    operating and capital expenditures to reduce the variability in
    our Australian dollar denominated expenditures. At
    December 31, 2009 we have hedged 60%, 37% and 13% of our
    forecasted Australian denominated operating costs in 2010, 2011
    and 2012, respectively. Our Australian dollar derivative
    programs will limit the benefit to the Company of future
    decreases if any, in the US dollar/Australian dollar exchange
    rates. For additional information, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of
    Consolidated Operations, Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, below.
    For a more detailed description of how currency exchange rates
    may affect costs, see discussion in Foreign Currency in
    Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Discussions About
    Market Risk.

Our business
    requires substantial capital investment and we may be unable to
    raise additional funding on favorable terms.

The construction and operation of potential future projects
    including the Akyem project in Ghana, the Conga project in Peru,
    the Hope Bay project in Nunavut, Canada, and various exploration
    projects will require significant funding. Our operating cash
    flow and other sources of funding may become insufficient to
    meet all of these requirements, depending on the timing and
    costs of development of these and other projects. As a result,
    new sources of capital may be needed to meet the funding
    requirements of these investments, fund our ongoing business
    activities and pay dividends. Our ability to raise and service
    significant new sources of capital will be a function of
    macroeconomic conditions, future gold and copper prices, our
    operational performance and our current cash flow and debt
    position, among other factors. In the event of lower gold and
    copper prices, unanticipated operating or financial challenges,
    or a further dislocation in the financial markets as experienced
    in recent years, our ability to pursue new business
    opportunities, invest in existing and new projects, fund our
    ongoing operations, retire or service all outstanding debt and
    pay dividends could be significantly constrained.



Any downgrade
    in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could
    increase our future borrowing costs and adversely affect the
    availability of new financing.

At December 31, 2009 Standard & Poor’s
    Rating Services rated Newmont Mining Corporation BBB+, with a
    stable outlook, and Moody’s Investors Service rated Newmont
    Mining Corporation Baa2 with a stable outlook. There can be no
    assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given
    period of time or that a rating will not be lowered if, in that
    rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to
    the basis of the rating, so warrant. If we are unable to
    maintain our outstanding debt and financial ratios at levels
    acceptable to the credit rating agencies, or should our business
    prospects deteriorate, our ratings could be downgraded by the
    rating agencies, which could adversely affect the value of our
    outstanding securities, our existing debt and our ability to
    obtain new financing on favorable terms, if at all, and increase
    our borrowing costs, which in turn could impair our results of
    operations and financial condition. See also “Future
    Funding Requirements may Affect our Business” and
    “Current Global Financial Conditions could Adversely Affect
    the Availability of New Financing and our Operations.”

To the extent
    that we seek to expand our operations and increase our reserves
    through acquisitions, we may experience issues in executing
    acquisitions or integrating acquired operations.

From time to time, we may examine opportunities to make
    selective acquisitions in order to expand our operations and
    reported reserves. The success of any acquisition would depend
    on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:

•

identifying suitable candidates for acquisition and negotiating
    acceptable terms for any such acquisition;

•

obtaining approval from regulatory authorities and potentially
    the Company’s shareholders;

•

maintaining our financial and strategic focus and avoiding
    distraction of management during the process of integrating the
    acquired business;

•

implementing our standards, controls, procedures and policies at
    the acquired business; and

•

to the extent the acquired operations are in a country in which
    we have not operated historically, understanding the regulations
    and challenges of operating in that new jurisdiction.

There can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude any
    acquisitions successfully, or that any acquisition will achieve
    the anticipated synergies or other positive results. Any
    material problems that we encounter in connection with such an
    acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results and financial condition.

Our operations
    may be adversely affected by power shortages.

We have periodically experienced power shortages in Ghana
    resulting primarily from drought, increasing demands for
    electricity and insufficient hydroelectric or other generating
    capacity which caused curtailment of production at our Ahafo
    operations. As a result of the mining industry’s initiative
    to construct and install an 80 mega-watt power plant during
    2007, the Ghanaian government has agreed, if required, to
    curtail power consumption as a result of power shortages and to
    distribute available power proportionately between participating
    mines and other industrial and commercial users. Alternative
    sources of power may result in higher than anticipated costs,
    which will affect operating costs. Continued power shortages and
    increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations
    and financial condition.



Occurrence of
    events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and
    overall profitability.

We maintain insurance policies that mitigate against certain
    risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in
    amounts that we believe are reasonable depending upon the
    circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may
    elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the
    high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for
    various other reasons; in other cases, insurance may not be
    available for certain risks. Some concern always exists with
    respect to investments in parts of the world where civil unrest,
    war, nationalist movements, political violence or economic
    crises are possible. These countries may also pose heightened
    risks of expropriation of assets, business interruption,
    increased taxation or unilateral modification of concessions and
    contracts. We do not maintain insurance policies against
    political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not
    insured may affect our results of operations and financial
    position.

Our business
    depends on good relations with our employees.

Due to union activities or other employee actions, we could
    experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions
    in production that could adversely affect us. At
    December 31, 2009 union represented employees constituted
    approximately 54% of our worldwide work force. Currently, there
    are labor agreements in effect for all of these workers. The
    labor agreement for Yanacocha expires on February 28, 2010
    and is currently being

re-negotiated.

There can be no assurance that any future disputes will be
    resolved without disruptions to operations.

Title to some
    of our properties may be defective or challenged.

Although we have conducted title reviews of our properties,
    title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from
    challenging our title or related property rights. While we
    believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties, some
    risk exists that some titles may be defective or subject to
    challenge. In addition, certain of our Australian properties
    could be subject to native title or traditional landowner
    claims, but such claims would not deprive us of the properties.
    For information regarding native title or traditional landowner
    claims, see the discussion under the Australia/New Zealand
    section of Item 2, Properties, below.

Competition
    from other mining companies may harm our business.

We compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key
    executives, skilled labor, contractors and other employees. We
    compete with other mining companies for the services of skilled
    personnel and contractors and for specialized equipment,
    components and supplies, such as drill rigs, necessary for
    exploration and development. We also compete with other mining
    companies for rights to mine properties containing gold and
    other minerals. We may be unable to continue to attract and
    retain skilled and experienced employees, to obtain the services
    of skilled personnel and contractors or specialized equipment or
    supplies, or to acquire additional rights to mine properties.

Our ability to
    recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on
    future cash flows and taxable income.

We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax
    assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than
    not of being realized, otherwise, a valuation allowance is
    applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the
    recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to
    make significant estimates related to expectations of future
    taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on
    forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of
    existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that
    future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from
    estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could
    be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws could
    limit our ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented
    by our deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2009 the
    Company’s current and long-term deferred tax assets were
    $215 and $937, respectively.



Returns for
    investments in pension plans are uncertain.

We maintain pension plans for certain employees which provide
    for specified payments after retirement. The ability of the
    pension plans to provide the specified benefits depends on our
    funding of the plans and returns on investments made by the
    plans. Returns, if any, on investments are subject to
    fluctuations based on investment choices and market conditions.
    A sustained period of low returns or losses on investments could
    require us to fund the pension plans to a greater extent than
    anticipated. During the second half of 2008 and early 2009, the
    value of the investments in our pension plans decreased
    significantly. While the plans have sufficient assets to meet
    benefit payments in the near term, the plans are underfunded for
    purposes of long-term sustainable payout to all employees.
    During the later part of 2009, the value of the investments in
    our pension plans improved, but not to the mid-2008 levels. If
    the plan investment values do not recover sufficiently, we may
    be required to increase the amount of future cash contributions.
    For a more detailed discussion of the funding status and
    expected benefit payments to plan participants, see the
    discussion in Employee-Related Benefits, Note 22 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

