ITEM 1A.

RISK
    FACTORS (dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per
    pound amounts)

Our business activities are subject to significant risks,
    including those described below. Every investor or potential
    investor in our securities should carefully consider these
    risks. If any of the described risks actually occurs, our
    business, financial position and results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected. Such risks are not the only ones
    we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect
    our business.

A substantial
    or extended decline in gold or copper prices would have a
    material adverse effect on Newmont.

Our business is dependent on the prices of gold and copper,
    which fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous
    factors beyond our control. Factors tending to influence prices
    include:

•

gold sales or leasing by governments and central banks or
    changes in their monetary policy, including gold inventory
    management and reallocation of reserves;

•

speculative short positions taken by significant investors or
    traders in gold or copper;

•

the strength of the U.S. dollar;

•

expectations of the future rate of inflation;

•

interest rates;



•

recession or reduced economic activity in the United States and
    other industrialized or developing countries;

•

decreased industrial, jewelry or investment demand;

•

increased supply from production, disinvestment and scrap;

•

forward sales by producers in hedging or similar
    transactions; and

•

availability of cheaper substitute materials.

Any decline in our realized gold or copper price adversely
    impacts our revenues, net income and cash flows, particularly in
    light of our strategy of not engaging in hedging transactions
    with respect to gold or copper. We have recorded asset
    write-downs in the past and may experience additional
    write-downs as a result of lower gold or copper prices in the
    future.

In addition, sustained lower gold or copper prices can:

•

reduce revenues further through production declines due to
    cessation of the mining of deposits, or portions of deposits,
    that have become uneconomic at prevailing gold or copper prices;

•

reduce or eliminate the profit that we currently expect from ore
    stockpiles and ore on leach pads;

•

halt or delay the development of new projects;

•

reduce funds available for exploration with the result that
    depleted reserves may not be replaced; and

•

reduce existing reserves by removing ores from reserves that can
    no longer be economically processed at prevailing prices.

Also see the discussion in Item 1, Business, Gold or Copper
    Price.

We may be
    unable to replace gold and copper reserves as they become
    depleted.

Gold and copper producers must continually replace reserves
    depleted by production to maintain production levels over the
    long term and provide a return on invested capital. Depleted
    reserves can be replaced in several ways, including by expanding
    known ore bodies, by locating new deposits, or by acquiring
    interests in reserves from third parties. Exploration is highly
    speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is
    unproductive. Our current or future exploration programs may not
    result in new mineral producing operations. Even if significant
    mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years
    from the initial phases of exploration until commencement of
    production, during which time the economic feasibility of
    production may change.

We may consider, from time to time, the acquisition of ore
    reserves related to development properties and operating mines.
    Such acquisitions are typically based on an analysis of a
    variety of factors including historical operating results,
    estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of ore
    reserves, the timing of production from such reserves and cash
    and other operating costs. Other factors that affect our
    decision to make any such acquisitions may also include our
    assumptions for future gold or copper prices or other mineral
    prices and the projected economic returns and evaluations of
    existing or potential liabilities associated with the property
    and its operations and projections of how these may change in
    the future. In addition, in connection with future acquisitions
    we may rely on data and reports prepared by third parties and
    which may contain information or data that we are unable to
    independently verify or confirm. Other than historical operating
    results, all of these factors are uncertain and may have an
    impact on our revenue, our cash and other operating issues, as
    well as contributing to the uncertainties related to the process
    used to estimate ore reserves. In addition, there may be intense
    competition for the acquisition of attractive mining properties.



As a result of these uncertainties, our exploration programs and
    any acquisitions which we may pursue may not result in the
    expansion or replacement of our current production with new ore
    reserves or operations, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and
    financial position.

Estimates of
    proven and probable reserves and non reserve mineralization are
    uncertain and the volume and grade of ore actually recovered may
    vary from our estimates.

The reserves stated in this report represent the amount of gold
    and copper that we estimated, at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, could be economically and legally extracted or produced at
    the time of the reserve determination. Estimates of proven and
    probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Such
    estimates are, to a large extent, based on the prices of gold
    and copper and interpretations of geologic data obtained from
    drill holes and other exploration techniques. Producers use
    feasibility studies to derive estimates of capital and operating
    costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be
    mined and processed, the predicted configuration of the ore
    body, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, the costs
    of comparable facilities, the costs of operating and processing
    equipment and other factors. Actual operating costs and economic
    returns on projects may differ significantly from original
    estimates. Further, it may take many years from the initial
    phases of exploration until commencement of production, during
    which time, the economic feasibility of production may change.

In addition, if the price of gold or copper declines from recent
    levels, if production costs increase or recovery rates decrease,
    or if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, we
    can offer no assurance that the indicated level of recovery will
    be realized or that mineral reserves as currently reported can
    be mined or processed profitably. If we determine that certain
    of our ore reserves have become uneconomic, this may ultimately
    lead to a reduction in our aggregate reported reserves.
    Consequently, if our actual mineral reserves and resources are
    less than current estimates, our business, prospects, results of
    operations and financial position may be materially impaired.

Increased
    operating costs could affect our profitability.

Costs at any particular mining location are subject to variation
    due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, changing
    metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the
    physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs
    are affected by the price of input commodities, such as fuel,
    electricity, labor, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and
    concrete. Commodity costs are, at times, subject to volatile
    price movements, including increases that could make production
    at certain operations less profitable and changes in laws and
    regulations affecting their price, use and transport. Reported
    costs may also be affected by changes in accounting standards. A
    material increase in costs at any significant location could
    have a significant effect on our profitability and operating
    cash flow.

We could have significant increases in capital and operating
    costs over the next several years in connection with the
    development of new projects in challenging jurisdictions and in
    sustaining existing operations. Costs associated with capital
    expenditures have escalated on an industry-wide basis over the
    last several years, as a result of factors beyond our control,
    including the prices of oil, steel and other commodities and
    labor. Increased costs for capital expenditures may have an
    adverse effect on the profitability of existing operations and
    economic returns anticipated from new projects.

Estimates
    relating to new development projects are uncertain and we may
    incur higher costs and lower economic returns than
    estimated.

Mine development projects typically require a number of years
    and significant expenditures during the development phase before
    production is possible. Such projects could experience
    unexpected problems and delays during development, construction
    and mine

start-up.



Our decision to develop a project is typically based on the
    results of feasibility studies, which estimate the anticipated
    economic returns of a project. The actual project profitability
    or economic feasibility may differ from such estimates as a
    result of any of the following factors, among others:

•

changes in tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of
    ore to be mined and processed;

•

higher input commodity and labor costs;

•

the quality of the data on which engineering assumptions were
    made;

•

adverse geotechnical conditions;

•

availability of adequate labor force and supply and cost of
    water and power;

•

fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates;

•

availability and terms of financing;

•

delays in obtaining environmental or other government permits or
    changes in the laws and regulations related to those permits;

•

weather or severe climate impacts; and

•

potential delays relating to social and community issues.

Our future development activities may not result in the
    expansion or replacement of current production with new
    production, or one or more of these new production sites or
    facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or
    may not be profitable at all, any of which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    position.

We may
    experience increased costs or losses resulting from the hazards
    and uncertainties associated with mining.

The exploration for natural resources and the development and
    production of mining operations are activities that involve a
    high level of uncertainty. These can be difficult to predict and
    are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:

•

environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants
    or hazardous chemicals;

•

industrial accidents, including in connection with the operation
    of mining transportation equipment and accidents associated with
    the preparation and ignition of large-scale blasting operations,
    milling equipment and conveyor systems;

•

underground fires or floods;

•

unexpected geological formations or conditions (whether in
    mineral or gaseous form);

•

ground and water conditions;

•

fall-of-ground

accidents in underground operations;

•

failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls;

•

seismic activity; and

•

other natural phenomena, such as lightning, cyclonic or tropical
    storms, floods or other inclement weather conditions.

The occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with
    our exploration activities and development and production of
    mining operations may result in the death of, or personal injury
    to, our employees, other personnel or third parties, the loss of
    mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties
    or production facilities, monetary losses, deferral or
    unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage
    and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely
    affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of
    operations and financial position.



Shortages of
    critical parts, equipment and skilled labor may adversely affect
    our operations and development projects.

The mining industry has been impacted by increased demand for
    critical resources such as input commodities, drilling
    equipment, tires and skilled labor. These shortages have, at
    times, impacted the efficiency of our operations, and resulted
    in cost increases and delays in construction of projects;
    thereby impacting operating costs, capital expenditures and
    production and construction schedules.

Mining
    companies are increasingly required to consider and provide
    benefits to the communities and countries in which they operate,
    and are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety
    laws and regulations.

As a result of public concern about the real or perceived
    detrimental effects of economic globalization and global climate
    impacts, businesses generally and large multinational
    corporations in natural resources industries, such as Newmont,
    in particular, face increasing public scrutiny of their
    activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate
    that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on
    investment to shareholders, other stakeholders, including
    employees, governments, communities surrounding operations and
    the countries in which they operate, benefit and will continue
    to benefit from their commercial activities. Such pressures tend
    to be particularly focused on companies whose activities are
    perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical
    environment. The potential consequences of these pressures
    include reputational damage, legal suits and social investment
    obligations.

In addition, our ability to successfully obtain key permits and
    approvals to explore for, develop and operate mines and to
    successfully operate in communities around the world will likely
    depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a
    manner that is consistent with the creation of social and
    economic benefits in the surrounding communities. Our ability to
    obtain permits and approvals and to successfully operate in
    particular communities may be adversely impacted by real or
    perceived detrimental events associated with our activities or
    those of other mining companies affecting the environment, human
    health and safety of communities in which we operate. Delays in
    obtaining or failure to obtain government permits and approvals
    may adversely affect our operations, including our ability to
    explore or develop properties, commence production or continue
    operations. Key permits and approvals may be revoked or
    suspended or may be varied in a manner that adversely affects
    our operations, including our ability to explore or develop
    properties, commence production or continue operations.

Our exploration, development, mining and processing operations
    are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing worker
    health and safety and the protection of the environment, which
    generally apply to air and water quality, protection of
    protected species, hazardous waste management and reclamation.
    We have made, and expect to make in the future, significant
    expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations.
    Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial
    costs and burdens, and can cause delays in obtaining, or failure
    to obtain, government permits and approvals which may adversely
    impact our operations.

Future changes in applicable laws, regulations and permits or
    changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could
    substantially increase costs to achieve compliance, lead to the
    revocation of existing or future exploration or mining rights or
    otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations
    and financial position. For instance, the operation of our mines
    in the United States is subject to regulation by the Federal
    Mine Safety and Health Administration (“MSHA”) under
    the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the “Mine
    Act”). MSHA inspects our mines on a regular basis and
    issues various citations and orders when it believes a violation
    has occurred under the Mine Act. If such inspections result in
    an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines, penalties or
    sanctions and our mining operations could be subject to
    temporary or extended closures, which could have an adverse
    effect on our results of operations and financial position.
    Following passage of The Mine Improvement and New Emergency
    Response Act of 2006, MSHA significantly increased the



numbers of citations and orders charged against mining
    operations. The dollar penalties assessed for citations issued
    has also increased in recent years.

In addition, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
    (“EPA”) is currently seeking to regulate as hazardous
    waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
    (“RCRA”) secondary streams derived from core
    beneficiation operations, such as our roasting operations, in
    Nevada. Historically, such streams have been considered exempt
    from RCRA and have been regulated by the Nevada Division of
    Environmental Protection. The regulation of these streams as
    hazardous waste under RCRA could subject us to civil and
    criminal penalties for past practices and require us to incur
    substantial future costs to modify our waste water collection
    systems and retrofit our tailings storage facilities at our
    Nevada mining operations, which could have an adverse effect on
    our results of operations and financial position.

Increased global attention or regulation on water quality
    discharge, such as recently enacted water quality legislation
    applicable to our operations in Peru, and on restricting or
    prohibiting the use of cyanide and other hazardous substances in
    processing activities could similarly have an adverse impact on
    our results of operations and financial position due to
    increased compliance and input costs.

We have implemented a management system designed to promote
    continuous improvement in health and safety, environmental
    performance and community relations. However, our ability to
    operate, and thus, our results of operations and our financial
    position, could be adversely affected by accidents or events
    detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the health and
    safety of our employees, the environment or the communities in
    which we operate.

Mine closure
    and remediation costs for environmental liabilities may exceed
    the provisions we have made.

Natural resource companies are required to close their
    operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in
    accordance with a variety of environmental laws and regulations.
    Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs
    for gold and copper mining operations are significant and based
    principally on current legal and regulatory requirements and
    mine closure plans that may change materially. For example, we
    have conducted extensive remediation work at two inactive sites
    in the United States. We are conducting mill remediation
    activities at a third site in the United States, an inactive
    uranium mine and mill formerly operated by a subsidiary of
    Newmont, but remediation at the mine is subject to dispute. In
    late 2008, the EPA issued an order regarding water management at
    the mine. The environmental standards that may ultimately be
    imposed at this site remain uncertain and a risk exists that the
    costs of remediation may exceed the financial accruals that have
    been made for such remediation by a material amount.

Any underestimated or unanticipated rehabilitation costs could
    materially affect our financial position, results of operations
    and cash flows. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they
    become known, are probable and can be reasonably estimated.
    Whenever a previously unrecognized remediation liability becomes
    known, or a previously estimated reclamation cost is increased,
    the amount of that liability and additional cost will be
    recorded at that time and could materially reduce our
    consolidated net income attributable to Newmont stockholders in
    the related period. In addition, regulators are increasingly
    requesting security in the form of cash collateral, credit,
    trust arrangements or guarantees to secure the performance of
    environmental obligations, which could have an adverse effect on
    our financial position. For a more detailed discussion of
    potential environmental liabilities, see the discussion in
    Environmental Matters, Note 31 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

The laws and regulations governing mine closure and remediation
    in a particular jurisdiction are subject to review at any time
    and may be amended to impose additional requirements and
    conditions which may cause our provisions for environmental
    liabilities to be underestimated and could materially affect our
    financial position or results of operations.



Regulations
    and pending legislation governing issues involving climate
    change could result in increased operating costs which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business.

Energy is a significant input to our mining operations, with our
    principal energy sources being electricity, purchased petroleum
    products, natural gas and coal.

A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced
    or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the
    potential impacts of climate change that are viewed as the
    result of emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels.
    The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which ends in 2012,
    established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for
    developed countries that have ratified the Protocol, which
    include Ghana, Australia and Peru. The Conference of Parties 15
    (“COP15”) of the United Nations Framework Convention
    on Climate Change held in Copenhagen, Denmark in December 2009
    was to determine the path forward after the Kyoto Protocol ends.
    COP15 resulted in the Copenhagen Accord (the
    “Accord”), a non-binding document calling for
    economy-wide emissions targets for 2020. Prior to the
    January 31, 2010 deadline, the United States, Australia,
    New Zealand, Indonesia, Ghana and Peru re-affirmed their
    commitment to the Accord. The U.S. Congress and several
    U.S. states have initiated legislation regarding climate
    change that will affect energy prices and demand for carbon
    intensive products. In December 2009, the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued an endangerment
    finding under the U.S. Clean Air Act that current and
    projected concentrations of certain mixed greenhouse gases,
    including carbon dioxide, in the atmosphere threaten the public
    health and welfare. It is possible that proposed regulation may
    be promulgated in the United States to address the concerns
    raised by such endangerment finding. Additionally, the
    Australian Government may introduce legislation authorizing a
    national emissions trading scheme and mandatory renewable energy
    targets.

Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change
    could impose increased costs on us, our venture partners and our
    suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment,
    environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply
    with such regulations. Until the timing, scope and extent of any
    future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on
    our financial condition, financial position, results of
    operations and ability to compete.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on our
    operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the
    geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may
    include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities,
    water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures.
    These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and
    financial performance of our operations.

Our operations
    are subject to risks of doing business.

Exploration, development, production and mine closure activities
    are subject to political, economic and other risks of doing
    business, including:

•

disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that
    are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•

changes in laws or regulations;

•

royalty and tax increases or claims, including retroactive
    increases and claims and requests to renegotiate terms of
    existing royalties and taxes, by governmental entities,
    including such increases, claims

and/or

requests by the governments of Ghana, Indonesia, Australia,
    Peru, the United States and the State of Nevada;

•

increases in training and other costs and challenges relating to
    requirements by governmental entities to employ the nationals of
    the country in which a particular operation is located;

•

delays in obtaining or renewing, or the inability to obtain,
    maintain or renew, necessary governmental permits and approvals;



•

claims for increased mineral royalties or ownership interests by
    local or indigenous communities;

•

expropriation or nationalization of property;

•

currency fluctuations, particularly in countries with high
    inflation;

•

foreign exchange controls;

•

restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell
    gold offshore for U.S. dollars, or on the ability of such
    companies to hold U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies
    in offshore bank accounts;

•

import and export regulations, including restrictions on the
    export of gold;

•

increases in costs relating to, or restrictions or prohibitions
    on, the use of ports for concentrate storage and shipping,
    particularly in relation to our Boddington and Batu Hijau
    operations where use of alternative ports is not currently
    economically feasible;

•

restrictions on the ability to pay dividends offshore or to
    otherwise repatriate funds;

•

risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla
    activities, insurrection and terrorism;

•

risk of loss due to criminal activities such as trespass,
    illegal mining, theft and vandalism;

•

risk of loss due to disease and other potential endemic health
    issues;

•

disadvantages relating to submission to the jurisdiction of
    foreign courts or arbitration panels or enforcement or appeals
    of judgments at foreign courts or arbitration panels against a
    sovereign nation within its own territory; and

•

other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in
    which our operations are conducted, including risks inherent in
    contracts with government owned entities such as unilateral
    cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, licenses or other
    mining rights.

Consequently, our exploration, development and production
    activities may be affected by these and other factors, many of
    which are beyond our control, some of which could materially
    adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.

Our Batu Hijau
    operation in Indonesia is subject to political and economic
    risks.

We have a substantial investment in Indonesia, a nation that
    since 1997 has undergone financial crises and devaluation of its
    currency, outbreaks of political and religious violence and acts
    of terrorism, changes in national leadership, and the secession
    of East Timor, one of its former provinces. These factors
    heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy
    toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in
    unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased
    taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation
    of assets.

Presidential and parliamentary elections took place in July
    2009, and although the president was re-elected, new ministers
    or members of parliament may have different (and potentially
    more negative) views relating to mining in general, and our
    assets and operations in particular, and may have a preference
    for national mining companies to own Indonesia’s mineral
    assets.

Violence committed by radical elements in Indonesia and other
    countries, and the presence or increase of U.S. forces in
    Iraq and Afghanistan, may increase the risk that operations
    owned by U.S. companies will be the target of violence. If
    our Batu Hijau operation were so targeted it could have an
    adverse effect on our business.



Our Batu Hijau
    operation in Indonesia may be adversely affected by a delay in
    receiving certain permit renewals.

Over the years, we are required to apply for renewals of certain
    key permits related to Batu Hijau. PTNNT, the entity operating
    Batu Hijau, employs a submarine tailings disposal
    (“STD”) system. The STD system is operated pursuant to
    a permit from the government of Indonesia that is up for renewal
    in May 2011, and is a key requirement to continue normal
    operations at Batu Hijau. A delay or failure to receive a STD
    permit renewal could adversely impact Batu Hijau operations and
    may adversely impact our future operating and financial results.

Our ownership
    interest in Batu Hijau has been reduced in accordance with the
    Contract of Work issued by the Indonesian Government and future
    reductions in our interest in PTNNT may result in our loss of
    control over the Batu Hijau operations.

We operate Batu Hijau and currently have a 31.5% direct
    ownership interest, held through the Nusa Tenggara Partnership
    (“NTP”) with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation of
    Japan. We have a 56.25% interest in NTP and a Sumitomo affiliate
    holds the remaining 43.75%. In December 2009, the Company
    entered into a transaction with P.T. Pukuafu Indah
    (“PTPI”), an unrelated noncontrolling partner of
    PTNNT, whereby we agreed to advance certain funds to PTPI in
    exchange for a pledge of the noncontrolling partner’s 20%
    share of PTNNT dividends, net of withholding tax, and the
    assignment of certain voting rights and obligations to the
    Company. On June 25, 2010, PTPI completed the sale of
    approximately a 2.2% interest in PTNNT to PT Indonesia Masbaga
    Investama (“PTIMI”) and the Company entered into a
    transaction with PTIMI, whereby we agreed to advance certain
    funds to PTIMI in exchange for a pledge of PTIMI’s 2.2%
    share of PTNNT dividends, net of withholding tax, and the
    assignment of certain voting rights and obligations to the
    Company. Based on the above transactions, the Company recognized
    an additional 17% effective economic interest in PTNNT. Combined
    with the Company’s 56.25% ownership in NTP, Newmont has a
    48.5% effective economic interest in PTNNT and continues to
    consolidate Batu Hijau in its Consolidated Financial Statements.

Under the Contract of Work executed in 1986 between the
    Indonesian government and PTNNT, 51% of PTNNT’s shares must
    be offered for sale, first, to the Indonesian government or,
    second, to Indonesian nationals by March 31, 2010. Pursuant
    to this divestiture provision, the ownership interest in the
    Batu Hijau mine’s production, assets and proven and
    probable equity reserves may be reduced in the future to as low
    as 27.56% and ownership interest of NTP in PTNNT could be
    reduced to 49%, thus reducing our ability to control the
    operation at Batu Hijau. Loss of control over PTNNT operations
    may result in our deconsolidation of PTNNT for accounting
    purposes, which would reduce our reported consolidated sales,
    total assets and operating cash flows. See Note 31 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the
    PTNNT share divestiture.

Furthermore, as part of the negotiation of the share
    divestitures with PT Multi Daerah Bersaing (“PTMDB”),
    the consortium of Indonesian regional and local governments and
    an unrelated Indonesian company that purchased such shares, the
    parties executed an operating agreement under which each
    recognizes the right of NTP to operate Batu Hijau and binds the
    parties to adhere to NTP’s standards for safety,
    environmental stewardship and community responsibility. The
    operating agreement remains in effect for so long as NTP owns
    more shares of PTNNT than PTMDB. If the operating agreement
    terminates, we will likely lose effective control over the
    operations of Batu Hijau and will be at risk for operations
    conducted in a manner that could potentially reduce the value of
    PTNNT or results in safety, environmental or social standards
    below those adhered to by NTP.



The Contract
    of Work has been and may continue to be the subject of dispute
    or legal review and is subject to termination by the Indonesian
    government if we do not comply with our obligations, which would
    result in loss of all or much of the value of Batu
    Hijau.

The divestiture provisions of the Contract of Work have been the
    subject of dispute. In 2008, the Department of Energy and
    Mineral Resources of the Indonesian government (the
    “DEMR”) alleged that PTNNT was in breach of its
    divestiture requirements under the Contract of Work and
    threatened to terminate the Contract of Work if PTNNT did not
    agree to divest shares in accordance with the direction of the
    DEMR. The matter was resolved by an international arbitration
    panel in March 2009. The arbitration decision led to NTP
    divesting 24% of PTNNT’s shares to PTMDB, the party
    nominated by the DEMR. NTP is in the concluding stages of
    working with the DEMR to divest the final 7% interest in PTNNT
    required to be divested under the Contract of Work. Following
    NTP’s divestiture of 24% of PTNNT’s shares to PTMDB,
    PTPI filed lawsuits in the South Jakarta District Court
    contending that it owns, or has rights to own, the shares in
    PTNNT that were divested by NTP to fulfill the requirements of
    the Contract of Work and the March 2009 arbitration award. In
    November 2010, the South Jakarta District Court issued a ruling
    with respect to one of the lawsuits, finding that PTPI has an
    entitlement to receive the full 31% interest in PTNNT required
    to be divested under the Contract of Work and awarding PTPI
    monetary damages of approximately $27. NTP has appealed the
    South Jakarta District Court ruling, a ruling which we believe
    contradicts both the Contract of Work and the March 2009
    arbitration. Although we are confident that the appellate courts
    will reverse the South Jakarta District Court ruling, there can
    be no assurance that NTP will prevail in this litigation.

Although the Indonesian government has acknowledged that PTNNT
    is currently in compliance with the Contract of Work, future
    disputes may arise under the Contract of Work. Moreover, there
    have been statements, from time to time, by some within the
    Indonesian government who advocate elimination of Contracts of
    Work and who may try to instigate future disputes surrounding
    the Contract of Work, particularly given that Batu Hijau is one
    of the largest businesses within the country. Although any
    dispute under the Contract of Work is subject to international
    arbitration, there can be no assurance that we would prevail in
    any such dispute and any termination of the Contract of Work
    could result in substantial diminution in the value of our
    interests in PTNNT. See Note 31 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for more information about the disputes
    involving the Contract of Work.

In January 2009, the Indonesian Government passed a new mining
    law. While the law preserves the right PTNNT to operate our Batu
    Hijau operations pursuant to the Contract of Work, no assurances
    can be provided that the Indonesian government will not seek to
    renegotiate certain provisions of the Contract of Work to
    conform to certain provisions of the new mining law, which could
    include requests for, among other things, higher royalty rates.

Our operations
    in Peru are subject to political risks.

During the last several years, Yanacocha, in which we own a
    51.35% interest, has been the target of numerous local political
    protests, some of which blocked the road between the Yanacocha
    mine complex and the City of Cajamarca in Peru. We cannot
    predict whether similar or more significant incidents will occur
    and the recurrence of significant community opposition or
    protests could adversely affect Yanacocha’s assets and
    operations. In 2008, 2009, 2010 and thus far in 2011, no
    material roadblocks or protests occurred involving Yanacocha.

In December 2006, Yanacocha, along with other mining companies
    in Peru, entered into a five-year agreement with the central
    government to contribute 3.75% of net profits to fund social
    development projects. Although the current government has
    generally taken positions promoting private investment, we
    cannot predict future government positions on foreign
    investment, mining concessions, land tenure, environmental
    regulation or taxation. National elections are scheduled in
    April 2011 and a change in government positions on these issues
    could adversely affect Yanacocha’s assets and operations,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial position.



Our Company
    and the mining industry are facing continued geotechnical
    challenges, which could adversely impact our production and
    profitability.

Newmont and the mining industry are facing continued
    geotechnical challenges due to the older age of certain of our
    mines and a trend toward mining deeper pits and more complex
    deposits. This leads to higher pit walls, more complex
    underground environments and increased exposure to geotechnical
    instability and hydrological impacts. As our operations are
    maturing, the open pits at many of our sites are getting deeper
    and we have experienced certain geotechnical failures at some of
    our mines, including, without limitation, in Indonesia at the
    Batu Hijau open-pit mine and at our operations in Nevada and
    Peru. In January 2010, our affiliate, PTNNT, experienced a
    geotechnical failure on a portion of the southeast wall causing
    a slide, which regrettably resulted in a fatality of one of the
    mine employees. Operations were temporarily suspended to conduct
    investigations and operations have since recommenced.

No absolute assurances can be given that unanticipated adverse
    geotechnical and hydrological conditions, such as landslides and
    pit wall failures, will not occur in the future or that such
    events will be detected in advance. Geotechnical instabilities
    can be difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and
    hazards outside of our control, such as severe weather and
    considerable rainfall, which may lead to periodic floods,
    mudslides, wall instability, and seismic activity, which may
    result in slippage of material.

Geotechnical failures could result in limited or restricted
    access to mine sites, suspension of operations, government
    investigations, increased monitoring costs, remediation costs,
    loss of ore and other impacts, which could cause one or more of
    our projects to be less profitable than currently anticipated
    and could result in a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial position.

Currency
    fluctuations may affect our costs.

Currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur at our
    operations. Gold and copper is sold throughout the world based
    principally on the U.S. dollar price, but a portion of our
    operating expenses are incurred in local currencies. The
    appreciation of those local currencies against the
    U.S. dollar increases our costs of production in
    U.S. dollar terms at mines located outside the
    United States.

The foreign currency that primarily impacts our results of
    operations is the Australian dollar. We estimate that every
    $0.10 increase in U.S. dollar/Australian dollar exchange
    rate increases annually the U.S. dollar

Costs applicable
    to sales

by approximately $79 for each ounce of gold
    produced from operations in Australia before taking into account
    the impact of currency hedging. From December 31, 2009 to
    December 31, 2010, the Australian dollar appreciated by
    approximately $0.12 per U.S. dollar, or approximately 13%.
    We hedge up to 90% of our future forecasted Australian dollar
    denominated operating expenditures to reduce the variability of
    our Australian dollar exposure. At December 31, 2010 we
    have hedged 72%, 45%, 22%, 17% and 8% of our forecasted
    Australian denominated operating costs in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014
    and 2015, respectively. Our Australian dollar derivative
    programs will limit the benefit to the Company of future
    decreases, if any, in the U.S. dollar/Australian dollar
    exchange rates. For additional information, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of
    Consolidated Operations, Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, below.
    For a more detailed description of how currency exchange rates
    may affect costs, see discussion in Foreign Currency in
    Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Discussions About
    Market Risk.

Our business
    requires substantial capital investment and we may be unable to
    raise additional funding on favorable terms.

The construction and operation of potential future projects
    including the Akyem project in Ghana, the Conga project in Peru,
    the Hope Bay project in Nunavut, Canada, and various exploration
    projects will require significant funding. Our operating cash
    flow and other sources of funding may become insufficient to
    meet all of these requirements, depending on the timing and
    costs of development of these and other projects. As a result,
    new sources of capital may be needed to meet the funding



requirements of these investments, fund our ongoing business
    activities and pay dividends. Our ability to raise and service
    significant new sources of capital will be a function of
    macroeconomic conditions, future gold and copper prices, our
    operational performance and our current cash flow and debt
    position, among other factors. In the event of lower gold and
    copper prices, unanticipated operating or financial challenges,
    or a further dislocation in the financial markets as experienced
    in recent years, our ability to pursue new business
    opportunities, invest in existing and new projects, fund our
    ongoing operations, retire or service all of our outstanding
    debt and pay dividends could be significantly constrained.

Any downgrade
    in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could
    increase our future borrowing costs and adversely affect the
    availability of new financing.

At December 31, 2010 Standard & Poor’s
    Rating Services rated Newmont Mining Corporation BBB+, with a
    stable outlook, and Moody’s Investors Service rated Newmont
    Mining Corporation Baa1 with a stable outlook. There can be no
    assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given
    period of time or that a rating will not be lowered if, in that
    rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to
    the basis of the rating so warrant. If we are unable to maintain
    our outstanding debt and financial ratios at levels acceptable
    to the credit rating agencies, or should our business prospects
    deteriorate, our ratings could be downgraded by the rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect the value of our
    outstanding securities, our existing debt and our ability to
    obtain new financing on favorable terms, if at all, and increase
    our borrowing costs, which in turn could impair our results of
    operations and financial position.

To the extent
    that we seek to expand our operations and increase our reserves
    through acquisitions, we may experience issues in executing
    acquisitions or integrating acquired operations.

From time to time, we examine opportunities to make selective
    acquisitions in order to expand our operations and reported
    reserves. The success of any acquisition would depend on a
    number of factors, including, but not limited to:

•

identifying suitable candidates for acquisition and negotiating
    acceptable terms;

•

obtaining approval from regulatory authorities and potentially
    the Company’s shareholders;

•

maintaining our financial and strategic focus and avoiding
    distraction of management during the process of integrating the
    acquired business;

•

implementing our standards, controls, procedures and policies at
    the acquired business and addressing any pre-existing
    liabilities or claims involving the acquired business; and

•

to the extent the acquired operations are in a country in which
    we have not operated historically, understanding the regulations
    and challenges of operating in that new jurisdiction.

There can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude any
    acquisitions successfully, or that any acquisition will achieve
    the anticipated synergies or other positive results. Any
    material problems that we encounter in connection with such an
    acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial position.

Our operations
    may be adversely affected by energy shortages.

Our mining operations and development projects require
    significant amounts of energy. Our principal energy sources are
    electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal.
    Some of our operations are in remote locations requiring long
    distance transmission of power, and in some locations we compete
    with other companies for access to third party power generators
    or electrical supply networks. A disruption in the transmission
    of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure or the
    termination of any of our energy supply contracts could
    interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations.

We have periodically experienced power shortages in Ghana
    resulting primarily from drought, increasing demands for
    electricity and insufficient hydroelectric or other generating
    capacity which



caused curtailment of production at our Ahafo operations. As a
    result of the mining industry’s agreement to construct and
    install an 80 mega-watt power plant during 2007, the Ghanaian
    government has agreed, if required, to curtail power consumption
    as a result of power shortages and to distribute available power
    proportionately between participating mines and other industrial
    and commercial users. The need to use alternative sources of
    power may result in higher than anticipated costs, which will
    affect operating costs. Continued power shortages and increased
    costs may adversely affect our results of operations and
    financial position.

Continuation
    of our mining production is dependent on the availability of
    sufficient water supplies to support our mining
    operations.

Our mining operations require significant quantities of water
    for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our
    operations in North and South America and Australia are in areas
    where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing
    access to water is significant. Continuous production at our
    mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights
    and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses
    in legal proceedings. Although each of our operations currently
    has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational
    demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or
    future legal proceedings relating to our water rights, claims
    and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our
    mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we
    have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining
    production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion
    opportunities. Laws and regulations may be introduced in some
    jurisdictions in which we operate which could limit our access
    to sufficient water resources in our operations, thus adversely
    affecting our operations.

The occurrence
    of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow
    and overall profitability.

We maintain insurance policies that mitigate against certain
    risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in
    amounts that we believe are reasonable depending upon the
    circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may
    elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the
    high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for
    various other reasons; in other cases, insurance may not be
    available for certain risks. Some concern always exists with
    respect to investments in parts of the world where civil unrest,
    war, nationalist movements, political violence or economic
    crises are possible. These countries may also pose heightened
    risks of expropriation of assets, business interruption,
    increased taxation or unilateral modification of concessions and
    contracts. We do not maintain insurance policies against
    political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not
    insured may affect our results of operations and financial
    position.

Our business
    depends on good relations with our employees.

Production at our mines is dependent upon the efforts of our
    employees and, consequently, our maintenance of good
    relationships with our employees. Due to union activities or
    other employee actions, we could experience labor disputes, work
    stoppages or other disruptions in production that could
    adversely affect us. At December 31, 2010 union represented
    employees constituted approximately 48% of our worldwide work
    force. There can be no assurance that any future disputes will
    be resolved without disruptions to operations.

We rely on contractors to conduct a significant portion of
    our operations and construction projects.

A significant portion of our operations and construction
    projects are currently conducted in whole or in part by
    contractors. As a result, our operations are subject to a number
    of risks, some of which are outside our control, including:

•

negotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms;

•

the inability to replace a contractor and its operating
    equipment in the event that either party terminates the
    agreement;

•

reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the
    responsibility of the contractor;



•

failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement;

•

interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that
    a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other
    unforeseen events;

•

failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and
    regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for
    such compliance; and

•

problems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor
    unrest or other employment issues.

In addition, we may incur liability to third parties as a result
    of the actions of our contractors. The occurrence of one or more
    of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations
    and financial position.

We are subject
    to litigation and may be subject to additional litigation in the
    future.

We are currently, or may in the future become, subject to
    litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings with other
    parties. If decided adversely to Newmont, these legal
    proceedings, or others that could be brought against us in the
    future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    position or prospects. For a more detailed discussion of pending
    litigation, see Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

In the event of a dispute arising at our foreign operations, we
    may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts
    or arbitral panels, or may not be successful in subjecting
    foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts or arbitral panels
    in the United States. Our inability to enforce our rights and
    the enforcement of rights on a prejudicial basis by foreign
    courts or arbitral panels could have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations and financial position.

Title to some
    of our properties may be defective or challenged.

Although we have conducted title reviews of our properties,
    title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from
    challenging our title or related property rights. While we
    believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties, some
    titles may be defective or subject to challenge. In addition,
    certain of our Australian properties could be subject to native
    title or traditional landowner claims, and our ability to use
    these properties is dependent on agreements with traditional
    owners of the properties. For information regarding native title
    or traditional landowner claims, see the discussion under the
    Australia/New Zealand section of Item 2, Properties, below.

Competition
    from other natural resource companies may harm our
    business.

We compete with other natural resource companies to attract and
    retain key executives, skilled labor, contractors and other
    employees. We also compete with other natural resource companies
    for specialized equipment, components and supplies, such as
    drill rigs, necessary for exploration and development, as well
    as for rights to mine properties containing gold, copper and
    other minerals. We may be unable to continue to attract and
    retain skilled and experienced employees, to obtain the services
    of skilled personnel and contractors or specialized equipment or
    supplies, or to acquire additional rights to mine properties.

Our ability to
    recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on
    future cash flows and taxable income.

We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax
    assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than
    not of being realized, otherwise, a valuation allowance is
    applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the
    recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to
    make significant estimates related to expectations of future
    taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on
    forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of
    existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that
    future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from
    estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could
    be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws could
    limit our ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented
    by our deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2010 the
    Company’s current and long-term deferred tax assets were
    $177 and $1,437, respectively.



Returns for
    investments in pension plans are uncertain.

We maintain pension plans for certain employees which provide
    for specified payments after retirement. The ability of the
    pension plans to provide the specified benefits depends on our
    funding of the plans and returns on investments made by the
    plans. Returns, if any, on investments are subject to
    fluctuations based on investment choices and market conditions.
    A sustained period of low returns or losses on investments could
    require us to fund the pension plans to a greater extent than
    anticipated. During the second half of 2008 and early 2009,
    market conditions caused the value of the investments in our
    pension plans to decrease significantly. As a result, we
    contributed $161 and $55 to the pension plans in 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. If future plan investment returns are not
    sufficient, we may be required to increase the amount of future
    cash contributions. For a more detailed discussion of the
    funding status and expected benefit payments to plan
    participants, see the discussion in Employee Related Benefits,
    Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

