
10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                       ----------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

    (mark one)
    [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998
    [   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
    Delaware                                                       04-2209186
    (State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

    81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
    Waltham, Massachusetts                                         02254-9046
    (Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 622-1000
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Title of each class       Name of each exchange on which registered
    ------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
    Common Stock, $1.00 par value            New York Stock Exchange
    Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
    required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to
    the filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [   ]
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
    contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
    or information statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this
    Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
    the Registrant as of January 30, 1998, was approximately $6,089,611,000.

    As of January 30, 1998, the Registrant had 159,173,807 shares of Common
    Stock outstanding.
                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
    ended January 3, 1998, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

    Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 2, 1998, are incorporated by
    reference into Part III.
PAGE

                                     PART I

    Item 1. Business

    (a) General Development of Business

        Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or the
    Registrant) develop, manufacture, and market analytical and monitoring
    instruments; biomedical products including heart-assist devices,
    respiratory-care equipment, and mammography systems; paper recycling and
    papermaking equipment; alternative-energy systems; industrial process
    equipment; and other specialized products. The Company also provides a
    range of services that include industrial outsourcing, particularly in
    environmental-liability management, laboratory analysis, and
    metallurgical processing; and conducts advanced-technology research and
    development. The Company performs its business through divisions and
    wholly owned subsidiaries, as well as majority-owned subsidiaries that
    are partially owned by the public or by private investors.

        A key element in the Company's growth has been its ability to
    commercialize innovative products and services emanating from research
    and development activities conducted by the Company's various
    subsidiaries. The Company's strategy has been to identify business
    opportunities arising from social, economic, and regulatory issues, and
    to seek a leading market share through the application of proprietary
    technology. As part of this strategy, the Company continues to focus on
    the acquisition of complementary businesses that can be integrated into
    its existing core businesses to leverage access to new markets.

        The Company believes that maintaining an entrepreneurial atmosphere
    is essential to its continued growth and development. To preserve this
    atmosphere, the Company has adopted a strategy of spinning out certain of
    its businesses into separate subsidiaries and having these subsidiaries
    sell a minority interest to outside investors. The Company believes that
    this strategy provides additional motivation and incentives for the
    management of the subsidiaries through the establishment of subsidiary-
    level stock option incentive programs, as well as capital to support the
    subsidiaries' growth. The Company's wholly and majority-owned
    subsidiaries are provided with centralized corporate development,
    administrative, financial, and other services that would not be available
    to many independent companies of similar size. As of March 11, 1998, the
    Company had 28 subsidiaries that have sold minority equity interests, 22
    of which are publicly traded and 6 of which are privately held.

        The Company is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956.
    The Company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed
    on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980.

    Forward-looking Statements

        Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout this Annual Report
    on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are
    not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking
    statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes,"

                                        2PAGE

    "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "seeks," "estimates," and similar
    expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There
    are a number of important factors that could cause the results of the
    Company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking
    statements, including those detailed under the heading "Forward-looking
    Statements" in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    statements are incorporated herein by reference.

    (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

        The Company's products and services are divided into six segments:
    Instruments, Alternative-energy Systems, Paper Recycling, Biomedical
    Products, Industrial Outsourcing, and Advanced Technologies. Products or
    services within a particular segment are provided by more than one
    subsidiary, and certain subsidiaries' products or services are included
    in more than one segment. The principal products and services offered by
    the Company in the six industry segments are described below. Financial
    information concerning the Company's industry segments is summarized in
    Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1997*
    Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

    (c) Description of Business

        (i) Principal Products and Services

    Instruments

        The Company, through its Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary,
    is a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of
    instruments used to identify complex chemical compounds, toxic metals,
    and other elements in a broad range of liquids, solids, and gases, as
    well as to analyze air pollution and radioactivity. Thermo Instrument
    also provides instruments that control, monitor, image, inspect, and
    measure various industrial processes and life sciences phenomena.

        Thermo Instrument historically has expanded both through the
    acquisition of companies and product lines and through the internal
    development of new products and technologies. During the past several
    years, Thermo Instrument has completed a number of complementary
    acquisitions that have provided additional technologies, specialized
    manufacturing or product-development expertise, and broader capabilities
    in marketing and distribution.

        For example, in March 1997, Thermo Instrument acquired 95% of Life
    Sciences International PLC, a London Stock Exchange-listed company.
    Subsequently, Thermo Instrument acquired the remaining shares of Life
    Sciences' capital stock. Life Sciences manufactures laboratory science
    equipment, appliances, instruments, consumables, and reagents for the
    research, clinical, and industrial markets.

    * References to 1997, 1996, and 1995 herein are for the fiscal years
      ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996, and December 30, 1995,
      respectively.

                                        3PAGE

        In March 1996, Thermo Instrument completed the acquisition of a
    substantial portion of the businesses constituting the Scientific
    Instruments Division of Fisons plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc. These businesses substantially added to Thermo
    Instrument's research, development, manufacture, and sale of analytical
    instruments to industrial and research laboratories worldwide. Certain of
    the Fisons businesses were since sold by Thermo Instrument to a number of
    its public subsidiaries that have complementary technologies and markets.

        Thermo Instrument adopted the Company's spinout strategy in an effort
    to more clearly focus its many instrumentation technologies on specific
    niche markets. To date, Thermo Instrument has completed initial public
    offerings of ThermoSpectra Corporation, ThermoQuest Corporation, Thermo
    Optek Corporation, Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation, Metrika Systems
    Corporation, and Thermo Vision Corporation. Thermo Instrument has
    completed a private placement of common stock of its ONIX Systems Inc.
    subsidiary and has filed a registration statement with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission for a public offering of ONIX Systems common stock.
    Thermo Instrument's subsidiaries are outlined below:

        ThermoSpectra develops, manufactures, and markets precision imaging
    and inspection, temperature-control, and test and measurement
    instruments. These instruments are generally combined with proprietary
    operations and analysis software to provide industrial and research
    customers with integrated systems that address their specific needs.

        ThermoQuest is a leading provider of mass spectrometers, liquid
    chromatographs, and gas chromatographs for the pharmaceutical,
    environmental, and industrial marketplaces. These analytical instruments
    are used in the quantitative and qualitative chemical analysis of organic
    and inorganic compounds at ultratrace levels of detection. ThermoQuest
    also supplies scientific equipment for the preparation and preservation
    of chemical samples, and consumables for the chromatography industry.

        Thermo Optek is a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture,
    and marketing of analytical instruments that use a range of light- and
    energy-based techniques. Thermo Optek's instruments are used in the
    quantitative and qualitative chemical analysis of elements and molecular
    compounds in a variety of solids, liquids, and gases.

        Thermo BioAnalysis develops, manufactures, and markets instruments,
    consumables, and information-management systems used in biochemical
    research and production, as well as in clinical diagnostics. Thermo
    BioAnalysis focuses on three principal product areas: life sciences
    instrumentation and consumables, information-management systems, and
    health physics instrumentation.

        Metrika Systems manufactures process optimization systems that
    provide on-line, real-time analysis of the elemental composition of bulk
    raw materials in basic-materials production processes, including coal,
    cement, and minerals. In addition, Metrika Systems manufactures
    industrial gauging and process-control instruments and systems used
    principally by manufacturers of finished web materials, such as sheet

                                        4PAGE

    metal, rubber, and plastic foils, to measure and control parameters such
    as thickness and coating weight of such materials.

        Thermo Vision, which became a public subsidiary of Thermo Instrument
    in December 1997, designs, manufactures, and markets a diverse array of
    photonics (light-based) products, including optical components, imaging
    sensors and systems, lasers, optically based instruments, opto-
    electronics, and fiber optics. These products are used in applications
    including medical diagnostics, semiconductor production, X-ray imaging,
    physics research, and telecommunications.

        ONIX Systems, a privately held subsidiary of Thermo Instrument,
    designs, develops, markets, and services sophisticated field measurement
    instruments and on-line sensors for process-control industries,
    particularly oil and gas. Systems provide real-time data collection,
    analysis, and local control functions regarding the flow, level, density,
    or composition of a particular material.

        Thermo Instrument also has wholly owned businesses, including the
    Life Sciences Clinical Instrument Division, which provides an array of
    clinical laboratory equipment and consumables, and Thermo Monitoring
    Instruments, which produces instruments and complete systems for
    detecting and monitoring environmental pollutants from industrial and
    mobile sources, and for detecting radioactive contamination.

    Alternative-energy Systems

        The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment includes the
    operation of independent (non-utility) power plants that operate using
    environmentally sound fuels and technologies, the development of
    engineered clean fuels, and the manufacture and sale of biopesticides.
    This segment also includes the manufacture, sale, and servicing of
    intelligent traffic-control systems, industrial refrigeration equipment;
    natural gas engines; packaged cooling and cogeneration systems; and steam
    turbines and compressors.

        Through its Thermo Ecotek Corporation subsidiary, the Company
    designs, develops, owns, and operates independent (non-utility) electric
    power-generation facilities that use environmentally responsible fuels,
    including agricultural and wood wastes, referred to as "biomass." Thermo
    Ecotek currently operates seven biomass facilities. Its facilities are
    developed and operated through joint ventures or limited partnerships in
    which it has a majority interest, or through wholly owned subsidiaries.

        Thermo Ecotek intends to pursue development of biomass and other
    power-generation projects both in the U.S. and overseas. In 1996, Thermo
    Ecotek formed a joint venture in Italy to develop, own, and operate
    biomass-fueled electric power facilities, and in January 1997, announced
    a joint agreement to expand two district energy centers in the Czech
    Republic. In the U.S., where the Company believes that utility
    deregulation may present opportunities for updating aging plants, Thermo
    Ecotek signed a $9.5 million agreement in November 1997 to purchase two
    deregulated plants in southern California for possible refurbishing and
    repowering.
                                        5PAGE

        Thermo Ecotek is expanding beyond power generation into other
    products and processes that protect the environment. In August 1995,
    Thermo Ecotek, through two wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a
    Limited Partnership Agreement with KFx Wyoming, Inc., a subsidiary of KFx
    Inc., to develop, construct, and operate a coal-beneficiation plant in
    Gillette, Wyoming. The facility employs patented "clean coal" technology
    to remove excess moisture and increase energy from subbituminous coal
    extracted from Wyoming's Powder River Basin.

        In May 1996, Thermo Ecotek entered the biopesticide business by
    acquiring the assets, subject to certain liabilities, of the biopesticide
    division of W.R. Grace & Co. (renamed Thermo Trilogy), which develops,
    manufactures, and markets environmentally friendly products for
    agricultural pest control. In January 1997, Thermo Trilogy acquired the
    assets of biosys, inc., a producer of pheromone, neem/azadiractin,
    nematodes, and virus-based biopesticide products, as well as
    disease-resistant sugar cane, and in November 1997, purchased the Bt
    biopesticide product line of Novartis AG.

        The Company, through its Thermo Power Corporation subsidiary,
    manufactures, markets, and services intelligent traffic-control systems,
    industrial refrigeration equipment, engines for vehicular and stationary
    applications, natural gas-fueled commercial cooling and cogeneration
    systems, and, through its privately held ThermoLyte Corporation
    subsidiary, is developing a line of gas-powered lighting products for
    commercialization.

        In November 1997, Thermo Power completed a cash tender offer for Peek
    plc, based in the U.K. Through Peek, the Company offers a range of
    intelligent traffic-control systems for urban traffic control, motorway
    management, and public transportation management in cities worldwide.
    Systems include traffic-signal synchronization systems to minimize
    congestion, variable message systems to advise drivers of accidents or
    construction, video systems to provide real-time analysis of traffic
    flows at intersections and on highways, as well as automatic
    toll-collection systems. Peek also has developed high-resolution video
    equipment to aid police officers in monitoring traffic violations.

        Through its industrial refrigeration business, Thermo Power supplies
    standard and custom-designed industrial refrigeration systems used
    primarily by the food-processing, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical
    industries. Thermo Power is also a supplier of both remanufactured and
    new commercial cooling equipment for sale or rental. The commercial
    cooling equipment is used primarily in institutions and commercial
    buildings, as well as by service contractors.

        Thermo Power also develops, manufactures, markets, and services
    gasoline engines for recreational boats, propane and gasoline engines for
    lift trucks, and natural gas engines for vehicles and stationary
    industrial applications; and designs, develops, markets, and services
    packaged cooling and cogeneration systems fueled principally by natural
    gas.

                                        6PAGE

        The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment also includes a
    U.K.-based manufacturer of steam turbines and compressors.

    Paper Recycling

        The Company designs, manufactures, and sells paper recycling and
    papermaking equipment and accessory products, and electroplating and
    aqueous cleaning systems.

        Through its Thermo Fibertek Inc. subsidiary, the Company is a leading
    designer and manufacturer of processing machinery, accessories, and
    water-management systems for the paper and paper recycling industries.
    Thermo Fibertek's custom-engineered systems remove debris, impurities,
    and ink from wastepaper, and process it into a fiber mix used to produce
    recycled paper. Thermo Fibertek's principal products include
    custom-engineered systems and equipment for the preparation of wastepaper
    for conversion into recycled paper, accessory equipment and related
    consumables important to the efficient operation of papermaking machines,
    and water-management systems essential for draining, purifying, and
    recycling process water.

        In May 1997, Thermo Fibertek acquired the majority of the assets,
    subject to certain liabilities, of the stock-preparation business of
    Black Clawson Company and certain of its affiliates. In August 1997, the
    Company acquired the remaining assets of the stock-preparation business
    of Black Clawson Company and such affiliates. This business, renamed
    Thermo Black Clawson, is a leading supplier of recycling equipment used
    in processing fiber for the manufacture of "brown paper," such as that
    used for corrugated boxes.

        In September 1996, Thermo Fibergen Inc. became a majority-owned,
    public subsidiary of Thermo Fibertek. Thermo Fibergen is developing and
    commercializing equipment and systems to recover materials from
    papermaking sludge generated by plants that produce virgin and recycled
    pulp and paper. Thermo Fibergen's GranTek Inc. subsidiary uses a patented
    process to convert papermaking sludge into granules that are used for
    applications including carriers for agricultural chemicals, oil and
    grease absorption, and catbox filler.

        Through a wholly owned subsidiary, the Company also manufactures
    electroplating systems and related waste-treatment equipment and
    accessories, as well as aqueous systems for cleaning metal parts without
    using ozone-damaging solvents.

    Biomedical Products

        The Company's Biomedical Products segment comprises a number of
    diverse medical products businesses, both wholly and publicly owned, that
    supply a wide range of medical systems and devices for diagnostic
    imaging, cardiovascular support, respiratory care, neurodiagnostics,
    sleep analysis, wireless patient monitoring, and blood management. The
    Company's biomedical products are provided to hospitals, clinics,
    universities, private-practice medical offices, and medical research
    facilities.

                                        7PAGE

        Its wholly owned Thermo Biomedical group includes Bear Medical
    Systems, the business of which was acquired from Allied Healthcare
    Products, Inc. in October 1997. Bear Medical designs, manufactures, and
    markets respiratory products, primarily ventilators.

        Also part of the Company's Thermo Biomedical group are SensorMedics
    Corporation, a leading provider of systems for pulmonary function
    diagnosis and a producer of respiratory gas analyzers, physiological
    testing equipment, and automated sleep-analysis systems; and Medical Data
    Electronics, a manufacturer of patient-monitoring systems. Both companies
    were acquired in 1996.

        Nicolet Biomedical Inc., another wholly owned subsidiary of the
    Company, is a leading manufacturer of biomedical instruments for
    assessing muscle, nerve, sleep, hearing, and brain blood-flow disorders,
    various neurologic disorders, and for related work in clinical
    neurophysiology. In September 1997, Nicolet acquired IMEX Medical
    Systems, Inc., a leading manufacturer of products used to evaluate
    peripheral vascular disease, as well as products to detect fetal
    heartbeat. This subsidiary is now called Nicolet Vascular Inc.

        Another wholly owned subsidiary, Bird Medical Technologies, Inc.,
    develops, manufactures, and sells respiratory-care equipment and
    accessories and infection-control products to hospitals, subacute-care
    facilities, outpatient surgical centers, doctors, dentists, the military,
    and to other manufacturers.

        Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermedics Inc.,
    has developed an implantable left ventricular-assist system (LVAS) called
    HeartMate(TM) that, when implanted alongside the natural heart, is
    designed to take over the pumping function of the left ventricle for
    patients whose hearts are too damaged or diseased to produce adequate
    blood flow. Thermo Cardiosystems has two versions of the LVAS: a
    pneumatic (or air-driven) system that can be controlled by either a
    bedside console or portable unit, and an electric system that features an
    internal electric motor powered by an external battery-pack worn by the
    patient.

        The air-driven HeartMate system has received both the European
    Conformity Mark and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for
    commercial sale. The electric version of the LVAS, which also holds the
    CE Mark, is currently awaiting commercial approval by the FDA for use as
    a bridge to transplant. In Europe, the device is used both as a bridge to
    transplant and as an alternative to medical therapy.

        In December 1996, Thermo Cardiosystems acquired the business of
    Nimbus Medical, Inc., a research and development organization involved
    for more than 20 years in technology for ventricular-assist devices and
    total artificial hearts, including high-speed rotary blood pumps, which
    are relatively small and could potentially provide cardiac support in
    small adults and children.

        Also part of Thermo Cardiosystems is International Technidyne
    Corporation, a leading manufacturer of hemostasis-management products,

                                        8PAGE

    including blood coagulation-monitoring instruments, and a supplier of
    skin-incision devices used to draw small blood samples precisely and with
    minimal discomfort.

        Trex Medical Corporation, a public subsidiary of ThermoTrex
    Corporation, designs, manufactures, and markets a range of medical
    imaging systems. It is the world's leading manufacturer of mammography
    equipment and minimally invasive digital breast-biopsy systems. Trex
    Medical also provides general-purpose and specialty radiographic systems,
    such as those used in the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery
    disease and other vascular conditions.

        In early December, Trex Medical submitted a 510(k) application to the
    FDA seeking clearance to market its digital imaging system for
    mammography. The Company believes that an advantage of digital imaging is
    that radiologists can manipulate and enhance image quality to scrutinize
    subtle differences that may otherwise go undetected on film-based X-rays.
    If the FDA approves the digital imaging system for mammography
    applications, Trex Medical plans to develop its digital technology for
    use in certain of its other products.

        ThermoLase Corporation, also a public subsidiary of ThermoTrex,
    operates a network of spas that offer its patented SoftLight(R)
    hair-removal system, for which it received FDA clearance in April 1995.
    The SoftLight system uses a low-energy dermatology laser in combination
    with a lotion to remove hair. ThermoLase submitted a 510(k) application
    for its laser-based skin-retexturing system, based on data from clinical
    trials.

        ThermoLase currently has 14 Spa Thira locations in the U.S., with 3
    spas outside the U.S.: in Paris, France; Lugano, Switzerland; and Dubai,
    U.A.E. To complement its Spa Thira salons, ThermoLase has commenced a
    program to license the SoftLight hair-removal process to physicians for
    use in their practices. ThermoLase has established a number of joint
    ventures and other physician-licensing arrangements to market its
    SoftLight processes internationally.

        ThermoLase also manufactures and markets personal care products sold
    through department stores, salons, and spas, including the lotion that is
    used in the SoftLight hair-removal process.

        Trex Communications Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held
    subsidiary of ThermoTrex, is developing laser communications technology
    designed to transmit very large amounts of data quickly, and also designs
    and markets interactive information and voice-response systems, as well
    as automated calling equipment.

    Industrial Outsourcing

        Through its Thermo TerraTech Inc. subsidiary, the Company provides
    outsourcing services, primarily in environmental-liability management and
    infrastructure planning and design, with specialization in the areas of
    municipal and industrial water quality management, bridge and highway
    construction and reconstruction, and natural resource management. Thermo

                                        9PAGE

    TerraTech also offers comprehensive environmental testing and analysis
    through a national network of laboratories serving the pharmaceutical,
    food, and environmental industries.

        Thermo Remediation Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech, is
    a national provider of outsourcing services for environmental management,
    including industrial, nuclear, and soil remediation, as well as
    waste-fluids recycling, primarily helping clients manage problems
    associated with environmental compliance, waste management, and the
    cleanup of sites contaminated with organic or toxic wastes.

        The Randers Group Incorporated, also a public subsidiary of Thermo
    TerraTech, provides comprehensive engineering and outsourcing services in
    such areas as water and wastewater treatment, highway and bridge
    projects, process engineering, construction management, and operational
    services.

        A privately held subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech, Thermo EuroTech
    N.V., provides remediation and recycling services in Europe. The Company
    treats oil-based contaminated soils and recycles waste oil and oily waste
    streams. In February 1998, Thermo EuroTech acquired a controlling
    interest in an Irish environmental services company that provides
    comprehensive in-plant waste management and recycling services to
    high-tech manufacturing firms in that country.

        In addition, metallurgical heat-treating services are provided by a
    wholly owned subsidiary of the Company for customers in the automotive,
    aerospace, defense, and other industries. The Company also provides,
    through another wholly owned business, metallurgical fabrication
    services, principally on high-temperature materials, for customers in the
    aerospace, medical, electronics, and nuclear industries.

    Advanced Technologies

        The Company's Advanced Technologies segment includes basic and
    applied research and development, often sponsored by the U.S. government,
    that is conducted with a goal of identifying viable commercial
    opportunities for new ventures. A number of its subsidiaries also provide
    various instrument systems, developed primarily for product
    quality-assurance applications in industrial, food and beverage,
    pharmaceutical, and electronics markets.

        The Company's ThermoTrex subsidiary conducts sponsored research and
    development with the goal of commercializing new products based on
    advanced technologies developed in its laboratories. Sponsored research
    and development, conducted principally for the U.S. government, includes
    basic and applied research in communications, avionics, X-ray detection,
    signal processing, advanced-materials technology, and lasers.

        ThermoTrex is currently developing a number of additional
    technologies that it believes may have future commercial potential. These
    include a passive microwave camera intended to "see" through clouds and
    fog to enhance safety in aerial navigation, a space surveillance system
    designed to produce high-resolution images of low-earth-orbit satellites,

                                       10PAGE

    a rapid optical beam steering laser radar system, and direct digital
    imaging systems for medical equipment to improve image quality for
    earlier and more accurate clinical diagnoses.

        The Company's wholly owned Thermo Coleman Corporation subsidiary
    provides systems engineering, technology support and information-
    technology services and products. Thermo Coleman also provides defense-
    and environmental-systems engineering, integration and analysis services,
    and advanced technology research and development, primarily to the U.S.
    government. Using expertise gained from its government contract work,
    Thermo Coleman designs, develops, and commercializes services and
    products in areas such as information technology and sensor and
    measurement systems for customers in industries including healthcare,
    education, aircraft production, government, utilities, and entertainment.

        Thermo Sentron Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermedics, designs and
    manufactures high-speed precision-weighing and inspection equipment for
    packaging lines and industrial production. Thermo Sentron serves two
    principal markets, packaged goods and bulk materials, both of which use
    its products to meet quality and productivity objectives. Customers for
    Thermo Sentron's checkweighers are in the food-processing,
    pharmaceutical, mail-order, and other packaged-goods businesses. Thermo
    Sentron also sells metal detectors with a patented self-test feature that
    are used to inspect packaged products for metal contamination to
    food-processing and pharmaceutical companies. Its bulk-materials product
    line includes conveyor-belt scales, solid level-measurement and
    conveyor-monitoring systems, and sampling systems, all sold to customers
    in the mining and material-processing industries, as well as to electric
    utilities, chemical, and other manufacturing companies.

        Thermedics Detection Inc., another public subsidiary of Thermedics,
    develops and manufactures high-speed on-line analysis systems used for
    product quality assurance in a variety of industrial processes, as well
    as for security. Thermedics Detection provides X-ray imaging systems that
    monitor a wide range of containers for fill volume, net volume, and
    package integrity, as well as systems that detect trace amounts of
    contaminants in refillable bottles, specifically for the beverage
    industry. For the beverage, food, cosmetic, and other industries,
    Thermedics Detection also makes instruments that use near-infrared
    spectroscopy to measure moisture and other product components, including
    fat, protein, solvents, and other substances in numerous consumer and
    industrial products. Thermedics Detection recently introduced an
    ultrahigh-speed gas chromatograph that permits manufacturers to conduct
    laboratory-quality analysis for near-on-line process-control
    applications.

        Thermo Voltek Corp., also a public subsidiary of Thermedics, designs,
    manufactures, and markets test instruments and a range of products
    related to power amplification, conversion, and quality. Thermo Voltek's
    power products are used in communications, broadcast, research, and
    medical imaging applications. It's test instruments allow manufacturers
    of electronic systems and integrated circuits to test for electromagnetic
    compatibility.

                                       11PAGE

        Through a wholly owned subsidiary, Thermedics manufactures
    electrode-based chemical-measurement products used in the agricultural,
    biomedical research, food processing, pharmaceutical, sewage treatment,
    and many other industries. In laboratories, manufacturing plants, and in
    the field, Thermedics' products permit these industries to determine the
    presence and amount of relevant chemicals. Thermedics also manufactures
    on-line process monitors used by power plants and semiconductor
    manufacturers to detect contaminants in high-purity water.

        (ii) New Products

        The Company's business includes the development and introduction of
    new products and may include entry into new business segments. The
    Company has made no commitments to new products that require the
    investment of a material amount of the Company's assets, nor does it have
    any definitive plans to enter new business segments that would require
    such an investment (see Section (xi) "Research and Development").

        (iii) Raw Materials

        Certain raw materials used in the manufacture of Thermo
    Cardiosystem's LVAS are available from only one or two suppliers. Thermo
    Cardiosystems is making efforts to minimize the risks associated with
    sole sources and ensure long-term availability, including qualifying
    alternative materials or developing alternative sources for materials and
    components supplied by a single source. Although the Company believes
    that it has adequate supplies of materials and components to meet demand
    for the LVAS for the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given that
    the Company will not experience shortages of certain materials or
    components in the future that could cause delays in Thermo Cardiosystems'
    LVAS development program or adversely affect Thermo Cardiosystems'
    ability to manufacture and ship LVAS units to meet demand.

        Except as described above, in the opinion of management, the Company
    has a readily available supply of raw materials for all of its
    significant products from various sources and does not anticipate any
    difficulties in obtaining the raw materials essential to its business.

        (iv) Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

        The Company considers patents to be important in the present
    operation of its business; however, the Company does not consider any
    patent, or related group of patents, to be of such importance that its
    expiration or termination would materially affect the Company's business
    taken as a whole. The Company seeks patent protection for inventions and
    developments made by its personnel and incorporated into its products or
    otherwise falling within its fields of interest. Patent rights resulting
    from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively
    to the Company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.

        The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and,
    where appropriate, uses trademarks or registers its products. It also
    enters into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights
    to patents and know-how.

                                       12PAGE

        (v) Seasonal Influences

        Thermo Ecotek earns a disproportionately high share of its income
    from May through October due to the rate structures under the power sales
    agreements relating to its California power plants, which provide strong
    incentives to operate during this period of high demand. Conversely,
    Thermo Ecotek historically has operated at a loss or at a marginal profit
    during the first quarter due to the rate structure under these
    agreements.

        Funding patterns of government entities, as well as seasonality, are
    expected to result in fluctuations in quarterly revenues and income at
    Thermo Power's Peek subsidiary. Peek has historically experienced
    relatively higher sales and net income in the second and fourth calendar
    quarters and relatively lower sales and net income in the first and third
    calendar quarters.

        While Thermo TerraTech conducts significant operations year-round,
    the majority of its businesses experience seasonal fluctuations due to
    adverse weather during winter months.

        There are no other material seasonal influences on the Company's
    sales of products and services.

        (vi) Working Capital Requirements

        There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended
    to customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
    working capital.

        (vii) Dependency on a Single Customer

        No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total
    revenues in any of the past three years. The Advanced Technologies
    segment derived approximately 34%, 38%, and 52% of its revenues in 1997,
    1996, and 1995, respectively, from contracts with various agencies of the
    U.S. government. In connection with the development of power plants,
    Thermo Ecotek typically enters into long-term power supply contracts with
    a single customer for the sale of power generated by each plant. The
    Alternative-energy Systems segment derived 15%, 16%, and 16% of its
    revenues in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively, from Pacific Gas &
    Electric and 15%, 16%, and 15% of its revenues in 1997, 1996, and 1995,
    respectively, from Southern California Edison.





                                       13PAGE


        (viii) Backlog

        The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1997 and 1996 was as
    follows:

    (In thousands)                                          1997         1996
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Instruments                                         $298,900     $266,600
    Alternative-energy Systems                           186,800      118,500
    Paper Recycling                                       62,300       52,300
    Biomedical Products                                  109,800      107,700
    Industrial Outsourcing                               117,100      118,200
    Advanced Technologies                                120,600      148,600
                                                        --------     --------
                                                        $895,500     $811,900
                                                        ========     ========

        Backlog includes the uncompleted portion of research and development
    contracts and the uncompleted portion of certain contracts that are
    accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method. Certain of such
    firm orders are cancellable by the customer upon the payment of a
    cancellation charge. The Company believes substantially all of the
    year-end 1997 backlog will be filled during 1998.

        (ix) Government Contracts

        Approximately 5% of the Company's total revenues in 1997 were derived
    from contracts or subcontracts with the federal government, which are
    subject to renegotiation of profits or termination. The Company does not
    have any knowledge of threatened or pending renegotiation or termination
    of any material contract or subcontract.

        (x) Competition

        The Company is engaged in many highly competitive industries. The
    nature of the competition in each of the Company's segments is described
    below:

    Instruments

        The Company is among the principal manufacturers of analytical
    instrumentation. Within the markets for the Company's analytical
    instrument products, the Company competes with several large corporations
    that have broad product offerings, such as Hewlett-Packard Company;
    Perkin-Elmer Corp.; Varian Associates, Inc.; and Hitachi, Ltd., as well
    as numerous smaller companies that address particular segments of the
    industry or specific geographic areas. The Company's instruments business
    generally competes on the basis of technical advances that result in new
    products and improved price/performance ratios, reputation among
    customers as a quality leader for products and services, and active
    research and application-development programs. To a lesser extent, the
    Company competes on the basis of price.

                                       14PAGE

    Alternative-energy Systems

        The worldwide independent power market consists of numerous
    companies, ranging from small startups to multinational industrial
    companies. In addition, a number of regulated utilities have created
    subsidiaries that compete as non-utility generators. Non-utility
    generators often specialize in market "niches," such as a specific
    technology or fuel (i.e., gas-fired cogeneration, refuse-to-energy,
    hydropower, geothermal, wind, solar, wood, or coal) or a specific region
    of the country where they believe they have a market advantage. However,
    many non-utility generators, including the Company, seek to develop
    projects on a best-available-fuel basis. The Company competes primarily
    on the basis of project experience, technical expertise, capital
    resources, and power pricing.

        The market in which the Company's biopesticide business competes is
    highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many
    competitors are large chemical and pharmaceutical companies with greater
    financial, marketing, and technological resources than the Company. The
    Company's biopesticide business competes primarily based on effective-
    ness, and also on price, ease of use, and environmental impact of use.

        The market for traffic products and services is extremely
    competitive, and the Company expects that competition will continue to
    increase, with the principal factors being price, functionality,
    reliability, service and support, and vendor and product reputation,
    along with industry and general economic trends. The Company believes
    that it is a leading manufacturer and supplier of traffic products, and
    considers its major competitor to be Siemens AG. However, the traffic
    market is highly fragmented and competition varies significantly
    depending on the individual product. 

        The Company's sale of industrial refrigeration systems is subject to
    intense competition. The industrial refrigeration market is mature,
    highly fragmented, and extremely dependent on close customer contacts.
    Major industrial refrigeration companies, of which the Company is one,
    account for approximately one-half of worldwide sales, with the balance
    generated by many smaller companies. The Company competes principally on
    the basis of its advanced control systems and overall quality,
    reliability, service, and price. The Company believes it is a leader in
    remanufactured refrigeration equipment. The Company competes in this
    market primarily based on price, delivery time, and customized equipment.

    Paper Recycling

        The Company faces significant competition in the markets for paper
    recycling and water-handling equipment and papermaking accessories, and
    competes in these markets primarily on the basis of quality, service,
    technical expertise, and product innovation. The Company is a leading
    supplier of de-inking systems for paper recycling and accessory equipment
    for papermaking machines, and competes in these markets primarily on the
    basis of service, technical expertise, and performance.

                                       15PAGE

    Biomedical Products

        Competition in the markets for most of the Company's biomedical
    products, including those manufactured by Thermo Cardiosystems,
    ThermoTrex, Nicolet Biomedical, Bird Medical Technologies, SensorMedics,
    Medical Data Electronics, Bear Medical Systems, and Nicolet Vascular, is
    based to a large extent upon technical performance.

        The Company is aware of one other company that has submitted a PMA
    application with the FDA for an implantable LVAS that would compete with
    Thermo Cardiosystems' LVAS. The Company is unaware whether this PMA
    application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. Also, the Company is
    aware of one other company that has received approval by the FDA Advisory
    Panel on Circulatory System Devices and subsequent commercial approval
    for its cardiac-assist device. This is an external device that is
    positioned on the outside of the patient's chest and is intended for
    short-term use in the hospital environment. The Company is also aware
    that a total artificial heart is currently undergoing clinical trials.
    The requirement of obtaining FDA approval for commercial sale of an LVAS
    is a significant barrier to entry into the U.S. market for these devices.
    There can be no assurance, however, that FDA regulations will not change
    in the future, reducing the time and testing required for others to
    obtain FDA approval. In addition, other research groups and companies are
    developing cardiac-assist systems using alternative technologies or
    concepts, one or more of which might prove functionally equivalent to, or
    more suitable than, the Company's systems. Among products that have been
    approved for commercial sale, the Company competes primarily on the basis
    of performance, service capability, reimbursement status, and price.

        The Company is one of a number of competitors in the markets for
    mammography and general radiographic systems and is one of two
    competitors in the market for stereotactic breast-biopsy systems. The
    Company competes in these markets primarily on the basis of product
    features, product performance, and reputation, as well as price and
    service. The markets in which the Company competes with these products
    are characterized by rapid technological change. The Company believes
    that in order to be competitive in these markets it will be important to
    continue to be technologically innovative.

        The Company's SoftLight laser hair-removal system competes with other
    laser-based systems, electrolysis, and other traditional hair-removal
    methods, such as shaving and waxing. In 1997, five other laser
    manufacturers received clearance from the FDA to market their laser-based
    systems for the removal of unwanted facial and body hair. The laser-based
    hair-removal market is characterized by rapid technological change, and
    the Company believes that it must continue to be technologically
    innovative in order to compete in this market. In addition, the SoftLight
    system competes with electrolysis providers, many of whom are small
    practitioners with well-established networks of client relationships. The
    Company believes that competition for its hair-removal services is based
    primarily on efficacy, price, comfort, and safety.

                                       16PAGE

    Industrial Outsourcing

        The Company seeks to compete in the market for soil-remediation
    services based on its ability to offer customers superior protection from
    environmental liabilities. However, with relaxed regulatory standards in
    many states, the Company faces intense competition in local markets from
    landfills, other treatment technologies, and from companies competing
    with similar technologies, limiting the volume of soil to be treated and
    the prices that can be charged by the Company. Pricing is therefore a
    major competitive factor for the Company.

        The Company's metallurgical services business competes in specialty
    machining services. Competition is based principally on services
    provided, turnaround time, and price.

        Hundreds of independent analytical testing laboratories and
    consulting firms compete for environmental services business nationwide.
    Many of these firms use equipment and processes similar to those of the
    Company. Competition is based not only on price, but also on reputation
    for accuracy, quality, and the ability to respond rapidly to customer
    requirements. In addition, many industrial companies have their own
    in-house analytical testing capabilities. The Company believes that its
    competitive strength lies in certain niche markets within which the
    Company is recognized for its expertise.

    Advanced Technologies

        In its contract research and development business, the Company not
    only competes with other companies and institutions that perform similar
    services, but must also rely on the ability of government agencies and
    other clients to obtain allocations of research and development monies to
    fund contracts with the Company. The Company competes for research and
    development programs principally on the basis of technical innovations.
    As government funding becomes more scarce, particularly for defense
    projects, the competition for such funding will become more intense. In
    addition, as the Company's programs move from the development stage to
    commercialization, competition is expected to intensify.

        Thermo Sentron competes with several international and regional
    companies in the market for its products. Thermo Sentron's competitors in
    the packaged goods market differ from those in the bulk materials market.
    The principal competitive factors in both markets are customer service
    and support, quality, reliability, and price.

        Thermedics Detection's product quality-assurance systems compete with
    chemical-detection systems manufactured by several companies and with
    other technologies and processes for product quality assurance.
    Competition in the markets for all of the Company's detection products is
    based primarily on performance, service, and price. There are a number of
    competitors in the market for instruments that detect explosives,
    including makers of other chemical-detection instruments as well as
    enhanced X-ray detectors.

                                       17PAGE

        Thermo Voltek is a leading supplier of electromagnetic compatibility
    testing equipment. The Company competes in this market primarily on the
    basis of performance, technical expertise, reputation, and price. In the
    market for power amplifiers, Thermo Voltek competes with several
    companies worldwide primarily on the basis of technical expertise,
    reputation, and price.

        Thermedics' electrode-based chemical-measurement products compete
    with several international companies. In the markets for these products,
    Thermedics competes on the basis of performance, service, technology, and
    price.

        (xi) Research and Development

        During 1997, 1996, and 1995, the Company expended $335,372,000,
    $299,271,000, and $269,329,000, respectively, on research and
    development. Of these amounts, $143,743,000, $144,823,000, and
    $167,120,000, respectively, were sponsored by customers and $191,629,000,
    $154,448,000, and $102,209,000, respectively, were Company-sponsored.

        (xii) Environmental Protection Regulations

        The Company believes that compliance with federal, state, and local
    environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse
    effect on its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

        (xiii) Number of Employees

        At January 3, 1998, the Company employed approximately 22,400
    persons.

    (d) Financial Information about Exports by Domestic Operations and About
        Foreign Operations

        Financial information about exports by domestic operations and about
    foreign operations is summarized in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    information is incorporated herein by reference.

    (e) Executive Officers of the Registrant

                                     Present Title (Year First Became
        Name                    Age  Executive Officer)
        ---------------------------------------------------------------
        George N. Hatsopoulos*  71   Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                       Executive Officer (1956)
        John N. Hatsopoulos*    63   President and Chief Financial Officer
                                       (1968)
        Arvin H. Smith          68   Executive Vice President (1983)
        William A. Rainville    56   Senior Vice President (1993)
        John W. Wood Jr.        54   Senior Vice President (1995)
        Peter G. Pantazelos     67   Executive Vice President (1968)
        Paul F. Kelleher        55   Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                       Administration (1982)
        * George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos are brothers.


                                       18PAGE

        Each executive officer serves until his successor is chosen or
    appointed and qualified or until earlier resignation, death, or removal.
    All executive officers, except Messrs. John Hatsopoulos, Rainville, and
    Wood, have held comparable positions with the Company for at least the
    last five years. Mr. John Hatsopoulos has been President of the Company
    since January 1997 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1988.
    Mr. Rainville has been a Senior Vice President of the Company since 1993
    and was a Vice President of the Company from 1986 to 1993. Mr. Wood was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Thermedics from 1984 until 1998,
    when he assumed the position of Chairman of the Board, and was a Vice
    President of the Company from 1994 to 1995, prior to becoming a Senior
    Vice President of the Company in 1995.

    Item 2. Properties

        The location and general character of the Company's principal
    properties by industry segment as of January 3, 1998, are as follows:

    Instruments

        The Company owns approximately 2,601,000 square feet of office,
    engineering, laboratory, and production space, principally in California,
    Florida, New Mexico, Texas, Wisconsin, Ohio, New Hampshire, New York,
    Massachusetts, the United Kingdom, and Germany, and leases approximately
    2,423,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production
    space principally in California, Massachusetts, Texas, Wisconsin, and the
    United Kingdom, under leases expiring from 1998 to 2017.

    Alternative-energy Systems

        The Company owns approximately 510,000 square feet of office,
    engineering, and production space, principally in Pennsylvania, the
    United Kingdom, Texas, Florida, California, and Massachusetts, and leases
    approximately 686,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and
    production space principally in Illinois, Michigan, and the United
    Kingdom, under leases expiring from 1998 to 2020.

        The Company operates four independent power plants in California,
    Maine, and New Hampshire, under leases expiring from 2000 to 2010. The
    Company owns three independent power plants in New Hampshire and
    California and a coal-beneficiation plant in Wyoming.

    Paper Recycling

        The Company owns approximately 1,281,000 square feet of office,
    laboratory, and production space, principally in France, Connecticut,
    Massachusetts, New York, and Ohio, and leases approximately 317,000
    square feet of office, engineering, and production space principally in
    Wisconsin, Louisianna, and Massachusetts, under leases expiring from 1998
    to 2005.

                                       19PAGE

    Biomedical Products

        The Company owns approximately 458,000 square feet of office and
    production space in Illinois, California, Wisconsin, Connecticut, and New
    Jersey, and leases approximately 1,409,000 square feet of office,
    engineering, laboratory, and production space in principally Texas,
    Massachusetts, California, New York, Connecticut, and Illinois, under
    leases expiring from 1998 to 2013.

    Industrial Outsourcing

        The Company owns approximately 715,000 square feet of office,
    laboratory, and production space, principally in California,
    Pennsylvania, Minnesota, New Jersey, and Massachusetts, and leases
    approximately 563,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and
    production space principally in California, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts,
    New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, and Florida, under leases expiring
    from 1998 to 2008.

        The Company owns approximately 71.5 acres of land from which it
    provides soil-remediation services principally in Maryland, Oregon, and
    California, and leases approximately 26 acres of land from which it
    provides soil-remediation and fluid-recycling services principally in New
    York, Arizona, and Washington, under leases expiring from 1999 to 2006.
    The Company also leases approximately 15 acres in Delfzijl, Holland,
    consisting of office, production, and oil storage facilities, under a
    lease expiring in 2059.

    Advanced Technologies and Corporate Headquarters

        The Company owns approximately 162,000 square feet of office space
    principally in Massachusetts, New York, and the United Kingdom, and
    leases approximately 1,047,000 square feet of office, engineering, and
    laboratory space principally in Florida, Massachusetts, California,
    Minnesota, Virginia, the Netherlands, Australia, and Alabama, under
    leases expiring from 1998 to 2011.

        The Company believes that its facilities are in good condition and
    are suitable and adequate to meet its current needs, and that suitable
    replacements are available on commercially reasonable terms for any
    leases that expire in 1998 in the event that the Company is unable to
    renew such leases on reasonable terms.

    Item 3. Legal Proceedings

        Not applicable.

    Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

        Not applicable.



                                       20PAGE

                                     PART II

    Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
            Matters

        Information concerning the market and market price for the
    Registrant's common stock, $1.00 par value, and related matters, is
    included under the sections labeled "Common Stock Market Information" and
    "Dividend Policy" in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders
    and is incorporated herein by reference.

    Item 6. Selected Financial Data

        The information required under this item is included under the
    sections "Ten Year Financial Summary" and "Dividend Policy" in the
    Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
    herein by reference.

    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations

        The information required under this item is included under the
    heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
    Results of Operations" in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to
    Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

        The Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 28,
    1996, are included in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders
    and are incorporated herein by reference.

    Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosures

        Not Applicable.












                                       21PAGE

                                    PART III

    Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

        The information concerning directors required under this item is
    incorporated herein by reference from the material contained under the
    caption "Election of Directors" in the Registrant's definitive proxy
    statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the close of
    the fiscal year.

    Item 11. Executive Compensation

        The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Executive
    Compensation" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A,
    not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

    Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

        The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Stock Ownership"
    in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later
    than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

    Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

        The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Relationship
    with Affiliates" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation
    14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.








                                       22PAGE

                                     PART IV

    Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
             Form 8-K

      (a, d) Financial Statements and Schedules

             (1) The financial statements set forth in the list below are
                 filed as part of this Report.

             (2) The financial statement schedule set forth in the list
                 below is filed as part of this Report.

             (3) Exhibits filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference
                 are set forth in Item 14(c) below.

             List of Financial Statements and Schedules Referenced in this
             Item 14

             Information incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 filed
             herewith:

                 Consolidated Statement of Income
                 Consolidated Balance Sheet
                 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                 Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment
                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 Report of Independent Public Accountants

             Financial Schedule included herewith:

                 Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

             All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
             or not required, or because the required information is shown
             either in the financial statements or in the notes thereto.

         (b) Reports on Form 8-K

             None.

         (c) Exhibits

             See Exhibit Index on the page immediately preceding exhibits.







                                       23PAGE

                                   SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be
    signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

    Date: March 11, 1998
                                      THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                                      By: George N. Hatsopoulos
                                          -------------------------
                                          George N. Hatsopoulos
                                          Chief Executive Officer

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
    the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, as of March 11, 1998.
    Signature                          Title
    ---------                          -----

    By:George N. Hatsopoulos      Chief Executive Officer, Chairman
       --------------------------       of the Board, and Director
       George N. Hatsopoulos     

    By:John N. Hatsopoulos        President, Chief Financial Officer,
       --------------------------       and Director
        John N. Hatsopoulos      

    By:Paul F. Kelleher           Senior Vice President, Finance and
       --------------------------       Administration (Chief Accounting
       Paul F. Kelleher                 Officer)
                                 
    By:John M. Albertine          Director
       --------------------------
       John M. Albertine

    By:Peter O. Crisp             Director
       --------------------------
       Peter O. Crisp

    By:Elias P. Gyftopoulos       Director
       --------------------------
       Elias P. Gyftopoulos

    By:Frank Jungers              Director
       --------------------------
       Frank Jungers

    By:Robert A. McCabe           Director
       --------------------------
       Robert A. McCabe

    By:Frank E. Morris            Director
       --------------------------
       Frank E. Morris

    By:Donald E. Noble            Director
       --------------------------
       Donald E. Noble

    By:Hutham S. Olayan           Director
       --------------------------
       Hutham S. Olayan

    By:Richard F. Syron          Director
       --------------------------
       Richard F. Syron

    By:Roger D. Wellington        Director
       --------------------------
       Roger D. Wellington

                                       24PAGE

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants
                    ----------------------------------------

    To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
    Thermo Electron Corporation:

        We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
    standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Thermo
    Electron Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by
    reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated
    February 18, 1998. Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an
    opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in Item
    14 on page 23 is the responsibility of the Company's management and is
    presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission's rules and is not part of the basic consolidated financial
    statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures
    applied in the audits of the basic consolidated financial statements and,
    in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
    required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic consolidated
    financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                 Arthur Andersen LLP



    Boston, Massachusetts
    February 18, 1998






                                       25PAGE

  SCHEDULE II

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)


                     Balance  Provision
                          at    Charged             Accounts            Balance
                   Beginning         to   Accounts   Written             at End
  Description        of Year    Expense  Recovered       Off  Other(a)  of Year
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Allowance for
   Doubtful Accounts

  Year Ended
   Jan. 3, 1998      $34,321   $ 9,078    $   527   $(8,594) $20,366   $55,698

  Year Ended
   Dec. 28, 1996     $29,318   $ 6,002    $   760   $(8,994) $ 7,235   $34,321

  Year Ended
   Dec. 30, 1995     $21,664   $ 5,534    $     5   $(6,422) $ 8,537   $29,318

  (a) Allowances of businesses acquired during the year as described in Note 3
      to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1997 Annual
      Report to Shareholders and the effect of foreign currency translation.














                                       26PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
      2.1         Amended and Restated Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement
                  dated March 29, 1996, among the Registrant, Thermo
                  Instrument, and Fisons plc (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
                  Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended March 30, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference). Pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of
                  Regulation S-K, schedules to this Agreement have been
                  omitted. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish
                  supplementally a copy of such schedules to the Commission
                  upon request.

      3.1         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as
                  amended (filed as Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                  29, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

      3.2         By-laws of the Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.2
                  to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 28, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference).

      4.1         Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of January 3, 1996,
                  between the Registrant and Chemical Bank pertaining to the
                  Registrant's 4 1/4% Subordinated Convertible Debentures due
                  2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
                  1995 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

                  The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A)
                  of Regulation S-K, to furnish to the Commission upon
                  request, a copy of each instrument with respect to other
                  long-term debt of the Registrant or its consolidated
                  subsidiaries.

      4.2         Rights Agreement dated as of January 19, 1996, between the
                  Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston, which
                  includes as Exhibit A the Form of Certificate of
                  Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights Certificate,
                  and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights to Purchase
                  Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form 8-A, declared effective by
                  the Commission on January 31, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).


                                       27PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.1         Thermo Electron Corporate Charter as amended and restated
                  effective January 3, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference).

     10.2         Form of Severance Benefit Agreement with officers (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No.
                  1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.3         Form of Indemnification Agreement with directors and
                  officers (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
                  1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

     10.4         Reserved.

     10.5         Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1993, among Chemical Trust Company of
                  California as Owner Trustee; Delano Energy Company Inc.;
                  ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, for itself and as Agent;
                  The First National Bank of Boston, as Co-agent; Barclays
                  Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Societe Generale, as Co-agent; and
                  BayBank, as Lead Manager (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference).

     10.6         Amended and Restated Participation Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1991, among Delano Energy Company Inc.; Thermo
                  Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy Systems
                  Corporation); Chemical Trust Company of California, as
                  Owner Trustee; ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, as
                  Co-agent; Bank of Montreal, as Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC,
                  as Co-agent; Society Generale, as Co-agent; BayBank, as
                  Lead Manager; and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Island Branch,
                  and joined in by the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).



                                       28PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number         Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.7          Turnkey Engineering, Procurement, Construction, and
                   Initial Operation Agreement for a de-inking pulp facility
                   dated as of November 1, 1994, between the Registrant, as
                   contractor, and Great Lakes Pulp Partners I, L.P., as
                   owner (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                   31, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                   reference). Pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K,
                   schedules to this Agreement have been omitted. The
                   Company hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a
                   copy of such schedules to the Commission upon request.

     10.8          Revolving Credit Facility Letters from Barclays Bank PLC
                   in favor of the Registrant and its subsidiaries.

     10.9          Stock Holdings Assistance Plan and Form of Promissory
                   Note.

     10.10 - 10.20 Reserved.

     10.21         Deferred Compensation for Directors of the Registrant
                   (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                   on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987
                   [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
                   (Maximum number of shares issuable is 679,218 shares,
                   after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                   1986 and 1992 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
                   October 1986, October 1993, May 1995, and June 1996.)

     10.22         Amended and Restated Directors' Stock Option Plan of the
                   Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant's
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                   December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                   herein by reference).

     10.23         Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                   Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's Registration Statement
                   on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein by
                   reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                   aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's
                   Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 13,552,734 shares,
                   after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                   1984 and 1986, share decrease approved in 1989, and
                   3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986, October
                   1993, May 1995, and June 1996.)


                                       29PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.24        Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                  Exhibit 4(e) to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein by
                  reference). (Plan amended in 1984 to extend expiration date
                  to December 14, 1994; maximum number of shares issuable in
                  the aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan is 13,552,734 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1984 and
                  1986, share decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock
                  splits effected in October 1986, October 1993, May 1995,
                  and June 1996.)

     10.25        Equity Incentive Plan of the Registrant (filed as Exhibit
                  10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Plan amended in 1989 to
                  restrict exercise price for SEC reporting persons to not
                  less than 50% of fair market value or par value; maximum
                  number of shares issuable is 15,575,000 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
                  October 1993, May 1995, and June 1996, and share increases
                  approved in 1994 and 1997.)

     10.26        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Inc. Nonqualified
                  Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4 to a Registration
                  Statement on Form S-8 of Thermedics [Reg. No. 2-93747] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 450,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increase approved in 1988, 5-for-4 stock
                  split effected in January 1985, 4-for-3 stock split
                  effected in September 1985, and 3-for-2 stock splits
                  effected in October 1986 and November 1993.)

     10.27        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                  Inc. (formerly Thermo Environmental Corporation)
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(c) to a
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermo Instrument
                  [Reg. No. 33-8034] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Maximum number of shares issuable is 527,343 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock splits effected in July
                  1993 and April 1995, 5-for-4 stock splits effected in
                  December 1995 and October 1997.)



                                       30PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.28        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                  Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12
                  to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 750,356 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increase approved in 1988, 3-for-2 stock
                  splits effected in January 1988, July 1993 and April 1995,
                  and 5-for-4 stock splits effected in December 1995 and
                  October 1997.)

     10.29        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo TerraTech Inc.
                  (formerly Thermo Process Systems Inc.) Nonqualified Stock
                  Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein
                  by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                  108,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 6-for-5 stock
                  splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989, and 3-for-2
                  stock split effected in September 1989.)

     10.30        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Power Corporation
                  (formerly Tecogen Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987
                  [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Amended in September 1995 to extend the plan expiration
                  date to December 31, 2005.)

     10.31        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Cardiosystems Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 250,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increases approved in 1990, 1992, and 1997,
                  3-for-2 stock split effected in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock
                  split effected in May 1990, 2-for-1 stock split effected in
                  November 1993, and 3-for-2 stock split effected in May
                  1996.)

     10.32        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Ecotek Corporation
                  (formerly Thermo Energy Systems Corporation) Nonqualified
                  Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                  487,500 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock
                  split effected in October 1996.)

                                       31PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.33        Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoTrex Corporation
                  (formerly Thermo Electron Technologies Corporation)
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 225,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in October 1993 and
                  share increase approved in March 1997.)

     10.34        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibertek Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 28, 1991 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 900,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect 2-for-1 stock split effected in September 1992 and
                  3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1995 and June
                  1996.)

     10.35        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly
                  Universal Voltronics Corp.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                  (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                  [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Maximum number of shares issuable is 86,250 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                  November 1993, share increase approved in September 1995,
                  and 3-for-2 stock split effected in August 1996.)

     10.36        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo BioAnalysis
                  Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.31 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No.
                  1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                  number of shares issuable is 150,000 shares, after share
                  increase approved in March 1997.)

     10.37        Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLyte Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.32 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 150,000 shares, after share increase
                  approved in March 1997.)

     10.38        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Remediation Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.33 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

                                       32PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.39        Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoSpectra Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.34 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.40        Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLase Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.35 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.41        Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoQuest Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.41 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.42        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Optek Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.42 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.43        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Sentron Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.43 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.44        Thermo Electron Corporation - Trex Medical Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.44 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.45        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibergen Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.19 to
                  Trex Medical's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 28, 1996 [File No. 1-11827] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

     10.46        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Detection Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     10.47        Thermo Electron Corporation - Metrika Systems Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     10.48        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Vision Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

                                       33PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     10.49        Thermo Electron Corporation - ONIX Systems Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     10.50        Thermo Electron Corporation - The Randers Group
                  Incorporated Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     10.51        Thermo Electron Corporation - Trex Communications
                  Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     10.52        Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Trilogy Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.

     13           Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 3,
                  1998 (only those portions incorporated herein by
                  reference).

     21           Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23           Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

     27.1         Financial Data Schedule for the year ended January 3, 1998.

     27.2         Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 30,
                  1995 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.3         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended March 30,
                  1996 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.4         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended June 29, 1996
                  (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.5         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended September 28,
                  1996 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.6         Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 28,
                  1996 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.7         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended March 29,
                  1997 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.8         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended June 28, 1997
                  (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).

     27.9         Financial Data Schedule for the quarter ended September 27,
                  1997 (restated for the adoption of SFAS No. 128).


