
10-K
TMO 1994 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
   (mark one)
   [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

   [   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934
                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
   Delaware                                                         04-2209186
   (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

   81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
   Waltham, Massachusetts                                           02254-9046
   (Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (617) 622-1000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                                     on which registered
   Common Stock, $1.00 par value                       New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
   of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the
   filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ]   No [   ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   Registrant as of January 27, 1995, was approximately $2,200,490,000.

   As of January 27, 1995, the Registrant had 51,000,776 shares of Common
   Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
   ended December 31, 1994, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
   Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 23, 1995, are incorporated by
   reference into Part III.
PAGE

                                     PART I


   Item 1.  Business

   (a)  General Development of Business

   Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or the
   Registrant) develop, manufacture, and market environmental monitoring and
   analysis instruments, biomedical products including heart-assist systems
   and mammography systems, paper-recycling and papermaking equipment,
   alternative-energy systems, industrial process equipment, and other
   specialized products. The Company also provides environmental and
   metallurgical services and conducts advanced technology research and
   development. The Company performs its business through its divisions and
   wholly owned subsidiaries, as well as majority-owned subsidiaries that are
   partially owned by the public or by private investors.

   The Company has developed leading market positions in many lines of
   business, including environmental monitoring and analysis instruments,
   mammography systems, biomass power plants, and paper-recycling equipment.
   The Company is currently seeking to establish leading market positions in
   the fields of left ventricular-assist systems, explosives-detection
   systems, soil-remediation services, and dedicated natural gas engines. The
   Company is developing new products in its Advanced Technologies segment, as
   well as in other segments.

   A key element in the Company's growth has been its ability to commercialize
   innovative products and services emanating from research and development
   activities conducted at the Company's various subsidiaries and divisions.
   The Company's strategy has been to identify business opportunities arising
   from social, economic, and regulatory issues and to seek a leading market
   share through the application of proprietary technology. As part of this
   strategy, the Company continues to focus on the acquisition of
   complementary businesses that can be integrated into its existing core
   businesses to leverage the Company's access to new markets.

   The Company believes that maintaining an entrepreneurial atmosphere is
   essential to its continued growth and development. In order to preserve
   this environment, the Company adopted the strategy of spinning out certain
   of its subsidiaries and having these subsidiaries sell a minority interest
   to outside investors. The Company believes that this strategy provides
   additional motivation and incentives for the management of the subsidiaries
   through the establishment of subsidiary-level stock options, as well as
   capital to support the subsidiaries' growth. The Company's wholly owned and
   majority-owned subsidiaries are provided with centralized strategic
   planning, corporate development, administrative, financial, and other
   services that would not be available to many independent companies of
   similar size. As of March 3, 1995, the Company had 13 subsidiaries that
   have sold minority equity interests, 11 of which are publicly traded.

   On February 8, 1995, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to
   acquire Coleman Research Corporation (CRC) in exchange for up to 2,669,158
   shares of Company common stock, including approximately 146,900 shares
   reserved for issuance upon exercise of stock options. CRC provides systems
   integration, systems engineering, and analytical services to government
   customers in the fields of information technology, energy and the
   environment, software engineering, launch systems, advance radar and
                                        2PAGE

   imaging, and health systems. The acquisition is subject to certain
   conditions, including the approval of CRC's shareholders, and is expected
   to be consummated on or about March 15, 1995. If completed, the acquisition
   of CRC will be accounted for using the pooling-of-interests method.

   The Company is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956. The
   Company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the
   New York Stock Exchange in 1980. The principal executive office of the
   Company is 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02254-9046 (telephone:
   617-622-1000).

   (b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

   The Company's products and services are divided into six segments:
   Instruments, Alternative-energy Systems, Process Equipment, Biomedical
   Products, Environmental Services, and Advanced Technologies. Products or
   services within a particular segment are provided by more than one
   subsidiary, and certain subsidiaries' products or services are included in
   more than one segment. The principal products and services offered by the
   Company in the six industry segments are described in detail below (see
   "Principal Products and Services"). Financial information concerning the
   Company's industry segments is summarized in Note 14 to Consolidated
   Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1994* Annual Report to
   Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

   (c)  Description of Business

        (i)  Principal Products and Services

   Instruments

   The Company, through its Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary, is a
   worldwide leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of
   analytical instruments used to detect and measure air pollution, nuclear
   radioactivity, complex chemical compounds, toxic metals, and other elements
   in a wide variety of materials. Thermo Instrument also markets process
   monitoring and control instruments for the oil, gas, and petrochemical
   industries. Through Thermo Instrument's 86%-owned subsidiary, ThermoSpectra
   Corporation, the Company develops, manufactures, and markets precision
   imaging, inspection, and measurement instrumentation that employ a variety
   of energy sources, or signals, as well as high-speed data acquisition and
   digital processing technologies.

   In recent years, Thermo Instrument has completed a number of key
   acquisitions to expand and complement its existing lines of instruments,
   including: Finnigan Corporation, a leading manufacturer of mass
   spectrometers, in May 1990; Nicolet Instrument Corporation, a leading
   manufacturer of instruments for numerous analytical, chemistry,
   engineering, and other applications, in August 1992; Spectra-Physics
   Analytical, a manufacturer of high performance liquid chromatography and
   capillary electrophoresis analytical instruments, in February 1993; and
   several of the businesses within the EnviroTech Measurements & Controls
   group of Baker Hughes Incorporated, manufacturers of products used for
   process control, process measurement, and laboratory analysis, in March
   1994. In addition, on March 1, 1995, Thermo Instrument entered into an
   Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement with Fisons plc (Fisons) relating to the
   * References to 1994, 1993, and 1992 herein are for the fiscal years ended
     December 31, 1994, January 1, 1994, and January 2, 1993, respectively.
                                        3PAGE

   acquisition by Thermo Instrument of Fisons' Scientific Instruments Division
   (the Division) for a purchase price of 202 million British pounds sterling,
   subject to a post-closing adjustment. The Division is principally composed
   of Fisons operations that are involved in the research, development,
   manufacture, and sale of analytical instruments to industrial and research
   laboratories worldwide. Consummation of the acquisition is subject to
   several conditions, including approval by Fisons shareholders, regulatory
   approvals, consent of certain third parties and customary conditions to
   closing.

   Instruments manufactured and marketed by the Company employ a variety of
   advanced technologies and spectral, electroanalytical, and separation
   techniques to determine the composition, or structure, and physical
   properties of natural and synthetic substances. The Company's instruments
   can be broadly categorized by their use as analytical, monitoring, or
   process control instruments.

   Analytical Instruments

   The Company's principal analytical instrument products are atomic emission
   and absorption spectrometers, Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and
   FT-Raman spectrometers, mass spectrometers, high performance liquid
   chromatographs, gas chromatographs, and X-ray fluorescence instrumentation.

   Atomic emission (AE) and atomic absorption (AA) spectrometers identify and
   measure trace quantities of metals, and other elements, in a wide variety
   of materials, including environmental samples (such as soil, water, and
   wastes), foods, drugs, cosmetics, and alloys. The Company sells its
   products to a wide range of customers in manufacturing industries such as
   producers of aircraft, automobiles and trucks, computers, chemicals, food,
   pharmaceuticals, and primary metals; service industries such as waste
   management companies and commercial testing laboratories; and government
   and university laboratories.

   The Company is a leading manufacturer of sequential AE spectrometers, in
   which elements are analyzed one at a time, and simultaneous AE
   spectrometers, in which many elements can be measured at the same time. The
   Company produces AA spectrometers in single-, double-, and four-channel
   models. The Company is the only major producer of multichannel AA
   spectrometers, which provide several operational advantages over
   single-channel instruments, including speed of analysis, increased
   accuracy, reduced sample consumption, and analysis over an extended range
   of concentrations.

   The Company's FT-IR and FT-Raman spectrometers are designed to
   nondestructively determine the chemical composition and physical properties
   of materials. These instruments are used in many areas of chemical
   research, industrial quality control and process monitoring, and for
   solving a wide variety of materials analysis problems. The Company offers a
   variety of models ranging from recently introduced models designed for
   routine applications to highly advanced research-grade FT-IR spectrometers.

   The Company is a leading manufacturer of commercial mass spectrometers and
   has pioneered many of the significant developments and applications of mass
   spectrometry. The Company's mass spectrometry products identify and measure
   the components of a sample for organic chemical compounds or for inorganic
   elements. These instruments are used by customers in environmental analysis
   and pollution control; in research and the production of pharmaceuticals;
                                        4PAGE

   in biochemistry; in analysis of foods, chemicals, and petrochemicals; and
   in health and forensic science. The Company provides both stand-alone mass
   spectrometers and combined systems that use its own chromatographs or those
   purchased from other companies. These products span a range of sensitivity,
   specificity, separation technologies, data-handling capabilities, sizes,
   and prices.

   The Company sells high performance liquid chromatography, capillary
   electrophoresis, and related instruments and equipment used principally in
   the research and development and production monitoring of pharmaceuticals,
   chemicals, and personal-care products, and for environmental monitoring.
   These instruments separate the chemical components of substances for
   purposes of identification and measurement. Capillary electrophoresis is a
   relatively new separation technique that is based on a combination of
   chromatographic and electroanalytical technologies and is particularly
   useful in biochemical and pharmaceutical research.

   In 1994, with Thermo Instrument's acquisition of the Tremetrics and TN
   Technologies businesses from Baker Hughes, the Company added two analytical
   testing technologies: gas chromatography and X-ray fluorescence. Gas
   chromatographs are widely used in environmental and industrial laboratories
   as stand-alone instruments or in conjunction with mass spectrometers, where
   the gas chromatograph separates a sample into individual chemical
   components for the mass spectrometer to identify. Applications include the
   identification of organic compounds, from pesticide residues on vegetables
   to chlorinated organics in drinking water. The Company sells a wide variety
   of gas chromatography detectors that measure trace levels of pollutants in
   water, soil, and air. X-ray fluorescence instruments allow for the
   nondestructive analysis of inorganic elements. Applications include alloy
   identification, on-line process monitoring and quality control,
   characterization of toxic metals in soil, and thickness and/or composition
   of semiconductor thin films. In addition, the Company manufactures and
   markets digital oscilloscopes, multichannel transient recorders,
   high-resolution waveform analyzers, laser scanning confocal microscopes,
   and X-ray microanalysis equipment, as well as X-ray imaging systems used
   for quality assurance and failure analysis applications primarily in the
   electronics industry.

   Monitoring Instruments

   The Company also manufactures monitoring instruments for two principal
   markets: the detection and measurement of nuclear radiation, and the
   monitoring of air pollutants including toxic and combustible gases.

   The Company's nuclear radiation monitoring instruments detect and measure
   alpha, beta, gamma, neutron, and X-ray radiation emitted by natural sources
   and by radioactive materials used in nuclear power plants and certain
   governmental, industrial, and medical facilities. The Company is a leading
   manufacturer of a broad range of stand-alone and portable instruments and
   computer-integrated instrument systems used to ensure the safety of
   personnel from exposure to nuclear radiation. Nuclear power plants and U.S.
   Department of Energy facilities purchase approximately 70% of the radiation
   monitoring instruments sold by the Company.

   The Company's air-monitoring instruments measure pollutants in ambient air
   and from stationary sources such as industrial smokestacks. The principal
   pollutants measured are oxides of nitrogen, sulfur dioxide, carbon
   monoxide, ozone, and volatile organic compounds. These instruments are used
                                        5PAGE

   by utility and industrial customers to ensure compliance with environmental
   regulations, by government agencies to monitor air quality, and by research
   facilities. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration's safety
   requirements for protecting workers from toxic or explosive atmospheres in
   confined spaces are addressed with the Company's detectors, instruments,
   and systems for sensing, monitoring, and warning of such dangers. These
   worker-safety products are used in a wide range of applications, from large
   petrochemical plants, utilities, and industrial manufacturing facilities to
   commercial buildings.

   In addition, the Company manufactures equipment that provides on-line,
   real-time analysis of elements in bulk raw materials, such as coal and
   cement. These analyzers are used by utilities to determine the sulfur
   content of coal to ensure compliance with air quality standards and by the
   cement industry to test raw materials to assure product quality and
   uniformity.

   Process Control Instruments

   With the 1994 acquisition of the EnviroTech Controls business from Baker
   Hughes, the Company now addresses the process monitoring, analysis,
   gauging, and control instruments market, primarily for the oil, gas, and
   petrochemical industries.

   The Company manufactures and markets a number of process monitoring,
   analysis, and control systems including: analog and digital recorders for
   continuous process industries; process and laboratory analytical
   instruments and monitors to detect lethal gases in the oil, gas, and
   petrochemical industries; supervisory control and data acquisition software
   for process monitoring and operator interface in a variety of industrial
   processes; and turnkey, integrated systems to control networks of distant
   oil and gas wells.

   The Company also manufactures and markets process gauges and noncontacting
   and nonintrusive process control instrumentation to measure liquid levels,
   density, weight, and flows for a variety of industries. Application
   examples include measuring levels in a pharmaceutical reactor, determining
   the percentage by weight of solids contained in a mining slurry, or
   monitoring the flow of fluid into a wastewater treatment facility.

   Revenues from instrument products were $650,114,000, $516,712,000, and
   $349,261,000 in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

   Alternative-energy Systems

   The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment includes the operation
   and, prior to 1994, the construction and sale, of independent (nonutility)
   power plants. Beginning in early 1994, the Company began operation of a
   waste-recycling facility. This segment also includes the manufacture, sale,
   and servicing of industrial refrigeration systems; natural gas and marine
   engines; packaged cooling and cogeneration systems; and steam turbines and
   compressors.

   Alternative-energy Power Plants

   Through its Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy Systems
   Corporation) subsidiary, the Company designs, develops, owns, and operates

                                        6PAGE

   independent (nonutility) electric power generation facilities that utilize
   a range of environmentally responsible combustion technologies. The
   facilities are either owned by the Company or sold to third parties upon
   completion and operated by the Company. The Company has completed and
   operates three wood-waste power plants and four agricultural-waste power
   plants, representing a net electric generating capacity of approximately
   140 megawatts.

   The Company also has substantial capabilities in developing and operating
   fossil-fuel cogeneration systems, which generate electricity and thermal
   energy in the form of steam or hot or chilled water. The Company has built,
   on a turnkey basis, three fossil-fuel cogeneration systems that are owned
   and operated by others, and one system in Dade County, Florida, that is
   owned by a third party and operated by a joint venture of which the Company
   is a partner.

   The facilities that are leased by the Company are owned by institutional
   investors and leased on a long-term basis to the Company or to joint
   ventures or partnerships in which the Company has ownership interests. The
   Company uses internal funds for preconstruction development expenses and
   generally obtains external financing for construction. The Company has
   equity ownership interests in three operating plants. The Company may make
   additional significant equity investments in future projects. The process
   of locating, developing, financing and constructing power plants is highly
   complex, lengthy and expensive and only a small percentage of the power
   projects that the Company evaluates or pursues results in operating
   projects.

   The Company participates in the operation of the Dade County Downtown
   Government Center cogeneration plant in Miami, Florida, through a joint
   venture of the Company and Rolls-Royce, Inc. Because the demand for power
   and chilled water at the Downtown Government Center complex has been
   substantially less than anticipated since the plant's startup in 1987, the
   joint venture has experienced continuing losses. The Company is involved in
   litigation and regulatory proceedings with respect to this project (see
   Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" below). In September 1994, the joint venture
   temporarily suspended operations at the facility for an indefinite period
   of time although it will continue to be responsible for lease and other
   fixed costs.

   Revenues from the operation and construction of alternative-energy power
   plants were $134,261,000, $128,558,000, and $140,561,000 in 1994, 1993, and
   1992, respectively.

   Waste-recycling Facility

   In early 1994, the Company completed construction and commenced operation
   of a 2,100-ton-per-day municipal solid waste-recycling facility (the
   Recycling Facility) in San Diego County, California (the County). The
   Recycling Facility is the first such facility that the Company has built or
   operated. The construction of the Recycling Facility was financed by the
   issuance by the California Pollution Control Financing Authority of $133.7
   million principal amount of bonds (the CPCFA Bonds). The Company has
   entered into a 24-year agreement with the County under which the Company
   will recycle materials recovered from the County's waste stream for a
   service fee to reduce the volume of remaining waste. The service fee is
   calculated pursuant to a formula that includes a provision for debt service
   for the CPCFA Bonds, a pass-through of certain costs of operating the
   Recycling Facility, an operation and maintenance allowance, and an
   allocation of a portion of the proceeds from the resale of recovered
                                        7PAGE

   materials generated by the Recycling Facility. The Company has contracted
   the operations and maintenance of the Recycling Facility to a joint venture
   that is owned 50% by the Company. The County has guaranteed that certain
   minimum amounts of waste will be brought to the Recycling Facility and the
   Company has guaranteed that the Recycling Facility is capable of processing
   a minimum amount of waste and of yielding certain percentages of recovered
   materials from recoverable waste. Except for risks associated with the
   nonperformance by the County of its obligations, the Company bears most
   business and legal risks associated with operating the Recycling Facility.
   (See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
   Results of Operations" incorporated by reference into Item 7 hereof.)

   Other

   The Company, through its Thermo Power Corporation subsidiary, develops,
   manufactures, markets, and services environmentally sound and economically
   efficient industrial refrigeration equipment, natural gas-fueled and
   low-emission natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary applications
   and commercial cooling and cogeneration units.

   Through its industrial refrigeration business, the Company provides
   environmentally sound solutions to the refrigeration needs of the
   food-processing, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical industries. More than
   80% of the Company's FES division's refrigeration products operate on
   ammonia, a non-ozone depleting alternative to the chlorofluorocarbon
   refrigerants gradually being phased out by government regulations. The 1994
   acquisition of NuTemp, Inc., which rents and sells new and remanufactured
   commercial cooling and industrial refrigeration equipment, provides the
   Company with the opportunity to broaden the product lines and services it
   offers.

   Many of Thermo Power's products are powered by its low-emission dedicated
   natural gas-fueled TecoDrive(R) engines. Thermo Power has supplied major
   fleet operators such as United Parcel Service and the U.S. Postal Service,
   as well as Blue Bird Corporation, a major school bus manufacturer, with
   TecoDrive engines to power their vehicles. Thermo Power's Crusader Engines
   division also manufactures natural gas engines for stationary applications,
   including irrigation equipment. Other products that operate with TecoDrive
   engines include cooling and cogeneration systems sold by Thermo Power's
   Tecogen division, and its newly introduced gas engine-driven refrigeration
   systems.

   Through its Tecogen division, the Company also conducts sponsored research
   and development on advanced systems for clean-coal combustion. The newest
   application of Thermo Power's combustion technology under development is a
   line of propane-powered lighting products, including flashlights, area
   lights or lanterns, and hazard lights.

   The Tecogen division is also developing a low-cost system for converting a
   diesel-fueled engine to operate solely on natural gas, without major
   modifications to the engine. This conversion kit will be designed to
   provide fleet managers a system for converting their diesel-powered
   vehicles to operate on natural gas, a much cleaner fuel.

   The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment also includes its Peter
   Brotherhood Ltd. subsidiary, a U.K.-based manufacturer of steam turbines
   and compressors.

                                        8PAGE

   Process Equipment

   The Company designs, manufactures, and sells advanced, custom-engineered
   processing machinery, including paper-recycling and papermaking equipment,
   metallurgical thermal-processing systems, and electroplating systems.

   Paper-recycling and Papermaking Equipment

   Through its Thermo Fibertek Inc. subsidiary, the Company designs and
   manufactures processing machinery and accessories for the paper-recycling
   and papermaking industries. The Company's principal products in this
   business include custom-engineered systems and equipment for the
   preparation of wastepaper for conversion into recycled paper, and accessory
   equipment and related consumables important to the efficient operation of
   papermaking machines. The Company has developed technologically advanced
   equipment for the preparation of white recycled fiber (e.g. printing and
   office paper, newsprint, and tissue). The Company sells in countries
   outside the Pacific Rim technologically advanced equipment for the
   preparation of brown recycled fiber (e.g. corrugated boxes and paper bags)
   pursuant to a license from Aikawa Iron Works Co., Ltd., a leading Japanese
   manufacturer of this equipment.

   Thermo Fibertek also designs and manufactures accessories used in the
   papermaking industry, including doctor blades and showers that perform
   on-line continuous cleaning of the fabrics and rolls used in the
   papermaking process. This cleaning process is important to papermakers
   because it reduces machine breakdowns, extends the life of consumable paper
   machine fabrics, and improves paper quality. Through Thermo Fibertek's AES
   division, which was acquired in 1993, the Company also manufactures water-
   management systems used in papermaking.

   During December 1994, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company entered into
   a $145 million contract for engineering, procurement, and construction
   services for an office wastepaper de-inking facility to be located in
   Menominee, Michigan. Construction is expected to take place over
   approximately two years. Thermo Fibertek will supply approximately $15
   million of equipment and services under the contract over a two year
   period.

   Revenues from paper-recycling and papermaking equipment were $162,625,000,
   $137,088,000, and $125,577,000 in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

   Metallurgical Thermal-processing Systems

   The Company, through the Holcroft division of its Thermo Process Systems
   Inc. subsidiary, designs, manufactures, and sells computer-controlled,
   custom-engineered thermal-processing systems used to treat primary metals
   and metal parts. Holcroft's products include controlled-atmosphere systems
   used to impart desirable metallurgical properties, such as added tensile
   strength and wear resistance, and vacuum heat-treating systems used in
   forming metals into desired shapes.

   The Company also manufactures electroplating systems, heavy metal and
   waste-treatment systems, and aqueous cleaning systems that offer an
   alternative to the use of ozone-damaging solvents in a variety of
   production processes.


                                        9PAGE

   Biomedical Products

   The Company's Biomedical Products segment comprises a number of different
   businesses, several of which have developed out of the Company's research
   related to left ventricular-assist systems, which began in 1966. In
   addition, the Company has made several acquisitions, including
   International Technidyne Corporation (ITC) in 1991, the biomedical division
   of Nicolet Instrument Corporation (Nicolet Biomedical) and Lorad
   Corporation in 1992, and CBI Laboratories, Inc. in 1993.

   The Company, through its Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. subsidiary, has
   developed two versions of an implantable left ventricular-assist system
   (LVAS): an pneumatic system that can be controlled by either a bedside
   console or portable unit, and an electric system that features an internal
   electric monitor powered by an external battery-pack worn by the patient.
   These devices are designed to perform substantially all or part of the
   pumping function of the left ventricle of the natural heart for patients
   suffering from cardiovascular disease. Unlike a total artificial heart
   system, which requires removal of the natural heart, an LVAS allows the
   natural heart to remain in place and assists the heart when it is unable to
   provide sufficient cardiac function to maintain life. In October 1994, the
   U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval for commercial
   sales of the pneumatic LVAS. With this approval, the pneumatic system is
   available for sale to cardiac centers throughout the United States. In
   April 1994, the Company received the European Conformity Mark (CE Mark) for
   the commercial sale of the pneumatic LVAS in all European Community
   Nations. The electric version of the LVAS is currently being used in
   clinical trials for patients awaiting heart transplants and may not be sold
   commercially in the U.S. until it has received approval from the FDA.

   The Company's Thermedics Inc. subsidiary develops, manufactures, and
   markets enteral nutrition-delivery systems and proprietary medical-grade
   plastics marketed under the names Tecoflex(R) and Tecothane(R), which are
   thermoplastic polyurethanes used in medical disposables and industrial
   products.

   ITC is a leading manufacturer of hemostasis management products, including
   blood coagulation-monitoring instruments. ITC also manufactures and markets
   skin-incision devices that can draw minute but medically significant blood
   samples through precisely controlled, pain-free incisions.

   Nicolet Biomedical is a leading manufacturer of biomedical instruments for
   assessing muscle, nerve, sleep, hearing, and brain blood-flow disorders and
   for related work in clinical neurophysiology. These instruments are used in
   hospitals, clinics, universities, private practice medical offices, and
   medical research facilities by physicians and technologists for routine
   clinical testing and intra-operative monitoring. Nicolet Biomedical also
   manufactures systems that record and display spontaneous brain waves in the
   form of a topographic colored "map." Such maps of brain activity are used
   in conjunction with other measurements to assist in the diagnosis of
   various neurologic disorders.

   Lorad is a leading manufacturer of low-dose X-ray mammography equipment and
   minimally invasive needle-biopsy systems. In 1992, Lorad introduced a
   digital imaging mammography system designed to target only a specific area
   of the breast where a suspicious lesion has been detected, creating a
   digital image of the lesion on a video monitor within seconds of taking an
   X-ray. Digital imaging has advantages over traditional X-ray mammography
                                       10PAGE

   because once the X-ray has been digitally acquired, the radiologist can
   manipulate and enhance the image quality to scrutinize subtle differences
   that may go undetected on a film-based X-ray. Lorad is expanding the
   capabilities of its digital imaging system into a digital screening system
   capable of imaging the whole breast rather than just a specific area. The
   FDA is currently evaluating whether parties seeking clearance to market a
   full-breast digital imaging system will be required to submit a premarket
   approval application or a 510(k) application. The Company does not expect
   to submit data to the FDA seeking market clearance for its full-breast
   digital imaging system before the end of 1995.

   Lorad's needle-biopsy systems provide a less-invasive alternative to
   conventional surgical biopsies. Compared with open surgery, these needle
   techniques are less traumatic to the patient, result in less scarring,
   which can affect the accuracy of future mammograms, and are performed on an
   outpatient basis at a significantly lower cost.

   In December 1993, the Company's ThermoTrex Corporation subsidiary acquired
   CBI Laboratories, Inc., a manufacturer of skin-care, bath, and body
   products sold through salons, spas, and stores. It is anticipated that CBI
   will manufacture the proprietary lotion that is an integral part of the
   laser-based system being developed by ThermoLase Corporation for the
   long-term removal of unwanted hair. ThermoLase is a majority-owned
   subsidiary of ThermoTrex (see "Advanced Technologies").

   Thermedics also manufactures Scent Seal* fragrance samplers, which were
   developed from the Company's polymer technology. Scent Seal fragrance
   samplers are used to seal renditions of scents in perfume and food
   advertisements for magazines, and offer an alternative to commonly used
   fragrance strips.

   Environmental Services

   Through a network of facilities owned and operated by a joint venture
   between Thermo Instrument and Thermo Process, called Thermo Terra Tech, the
   Company provides comprehensive laboratory-based environmental testing,
   analysis, and related services for the detection, measurement, and
   monitoring of hazardous wastes and radioactive materials. The Company's
   services also include design and construction inspection of water supply
   and wastewater treatment facilities, surveying and site planning,
   transportation engineering services, solid waste management services, and
   building services.

   Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo Process,
   provides soil-remediation services at a network of regional centers that
   serve customers mainly on the East and West coasts. These soil-remediation
   centers thermally treat soils to remove and destroy petroleum contamination
   caused by leaking storage tanks, spills, and other sources. Thermo
   Remediation also operates a waste fluids-recycling facility through a
   fluids-recovery company based in Arizona. A majority-owned subsidiary of
   Thermo Process, J. Amerika N.V., provides underground tank removal and
   other environmental services from its Netherlands-based operation.

   In addition, metallurgical heat-treating services are provided for
   customers in the automotive, aerospace, defense, and other industries. The
   Company also provides metallurgical fabrication services, principally on

   * Scent Seal is a trademark of Scent Seal Inc.
                                       11PAGE

   high-temperature materials, for customers in the aerospace, medical,
   electronics, and nuclear industries.

   Advanced Technologies

   The Company's ThermoTrex Corporation subsidiary conducts sponsored research
   and development and is also attempting to commercialize new products based
   on advanced technologies it has developed in its laboratories. Sponsored
   research and development conducted by this subsidiary, principally for the
   U.S. government, includes basic and applied research in electro-optic and
   electro-acoustic systems, signal processing, materials technology, lasers,
   and direct-energy conversion.

   Research and development currently in progress by ThermoTrex includes the
   development of a passive microwave camera that is intended to "see" through
   clouds and fog to enhance safety in aerial navigation, the Sonic CT(TM)
   (computed tomography) system for the early detection of breast cancer, a
   blood-flow measurement system, called the Doppler CT, for the diagnosis and
   monitoring of peripheral vascular disease, and a laser-based, long-term
   hair removal system (the ThermoLase system). In December 1994, based on
   data collected from clinical trials, the Company submitted a 510(k)
   application to the FDA seeking clearance to commercially market and sell
   services using the ThermoLase system. ThermoTrex's products are at
   different stages of development and are subject to different levels of
   regulatory approval. Because these projects are still under development, no
   assurance can be given that the necessary approvals for any of the projects
   will be obtained on a timely basis, or at all, or that any of them will
   eventually result in commercially viable products.

   Through Thermedics' Ramsey Technology subsidiary, which was acquired in
   March 1994, the Company manufactures instruments that weigh and inspect
   bulk materials for the mining and mineral processing industry, coal-fired
   electric utilities, and construction-material suppliers. Ramsey also
   manufactures weighing and metal-detection instruments for the food
   processing and other packaged goods markets, including the pharmaceutical
   industry.

   Based on technology that has been used to develop instruments sold by the
   Company for the detection of nitrogen-based compounds, the Company, through
   a subsidiary of Thermedics, developed the EGIS(R) system and the Sentor(R)
   system. The EGIS system is a highly sensitive chemical-detection instrument
   for screening people, baggage, packages, freight, and electronic equipment,
   such as personal computers, for the presence of a wide range of explosives,
   including the plastic explosives that have proven difficult to detect using
   conventional methods. The Sentor system is used by law enforcement
   officials to detect the presence of cocaine and heroin. In 1992, Thermedics
   introduced a high-speed product quality assurance system based on its
   detection technology for use in bottling lines in the carbonated beverage
   industry (the Alexus system). The Company believes that the technology
   developed from this project may have applications in a range of
   environments, particularly in the food and beverage industry, where the
   ability to screen products during high-speed production, without
   interruption, will enhance product quality and increase efficiency. In
   1994, the Company introduced a new system to the bottled water industry.

   The Company's Thermo Voltek Corp. subsidiary designs, develops, and
   manufactures electronic test instruments that test electronic and
   electrical systems and components for electromagnetic compatibility (EMC),
                                       12PAGE

   offers EMC-consulting and systems-integration services, acts as a
   distributor of a broad range of EMC-testing products, and manufactures
   power-conversion systems for use in telecommunications equipment. Thermo
   Voltek also designs, manufactures, and markets high-voltage power
   conversion systems, modulators, fast-response protection systems, and
   related high-voltage equipment for industrial, medical, and environmental
   processes, and defense and scientific research applications.

   Publicly and Privately Held Subsidiaries

   In 1983, the Company adopted a strategy of having certain subsidiaries sell
   a minority interest in a public or private offering to outside investors.
   An important goal of this strategy is to provide the entrepreneurial
   atmosphere and focused performance incentives of a separate business. As of
   March 3, 1995, the Company had 13 subsidiaries that have sold minority
   equity interests, 11 of which are publicly traded and two of which are
   privately held.

   Thermedics Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets product quality
   assurance systems, explosives- and drug-detection devices, and precision
   weighing and inspection equipment, as well as biomaterials and other
   biomedical products. Thermedics' products are included in the Company's
   Biomedical Products and Advanced Technologies segments.

        Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
        develops, manufactures, markets, and sells implantable pneumatic left
        ventricular-assist systems designed to perform substantially all or
        part of the pumping function of the left ventricle of the natural
        heart for patients suffering from cardiovascular disease. Thermo
        Cardiosystems also performs research and development on other versions
        of its pneumatic system, as well as an electric version. Thermo
        Cardiosystems' products are included in the Company's Biomedical
        Products segment.

        Thermo Voltek Corp., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
        designs, manufactures, and markets instruments that test electronic
        systems and components for electromagnetic compatibility, and provides
        related distribution and consulting services. Thermo Voltek also
        designs and manufactures high-voltage power conversion systems for
        research and commercial applications, and specialized power supplies
        for telecommunications equipment. Thermo Voltek's products are
        included in the Company's Advanced Technologies segment.

   Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets
   analytical, monitoring, and process control instruments used to detect and
   measure air pollution, radioactivity, complex chemical compounds, toxic
   metals, and other elements in a broad range of liquids and solids as well
   as control and monitor various industrial processes. Thermo Instrument's
   products are included in the Company's Instruments segment.

        ThermoSpectra Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary
        of Thermo Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets precision
        imaging, inspection, and measurement instrumentation that employ a
        variety of energy sources or signals as well as high-speed data
        acquisition and digital processing technologies. ThermoSpectra's
        products are included in the Company's Instruments segment.


                                       13PAGE

   Thermo Process Systems Inc. provides a range of specialized environmental
   services, including the engineering design and construction management of
   water supply and wastewater treatment systems for both industry and
   municipalities. Through its Thermo Terra Tech joint venture with Thermo
   Instrument, Thermo Process provides environmental science and engineering
   services, laboratory-based testing, and nuclear health and safety services.
   Thermo Process also provides equipment and services for the automated
   heat-treating of metal parts. Thermo Process' products and services are
   included in the Company's Environmental Services and Process Equipment
   segments.

        Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
        Process, operates a network of soil-remediation centers and provides
        waste fluids-recycling and other specialized remediation services.
        Thermo Remediation's services are included in the Company's
        Environmental Services segment.

        J. Amerika N.V., a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of Thermo
        Process, provides environmental services in the Netherlands, including
        testing, removal, and installation of underground storage tanks, and
        groundwater cleanup. J. Amerika's services are included in the
        Company's Environmental Services segment.

   Thermo Power Corporation manufactures, markets, and services industrial
   refrigeration equipment; natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary
   applications; natural gas-fueled cooling and cogeneration systems; and
   marine engines. Thermo Power also conducts sponsored research and
   development on advanced systems for clean-coal combustion and other
   high-efficiency gas-fueled devices. Thermo Power's products are included in
   the Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment.

   ThermoTrex Corporation manufactures and markets mammography and needle-
   biopsy systems for the early detection of breast cancer, and develops
   advanced technologies that it is incorporating into commercial products for
   the medical imaging, personal-care, and avionics industries. ThermoTrex's
   products are included in the Company's Advanced Technologies and Biomedical
   Products segments.

        ThermoLase Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex, is
        developing a laser-based system for the long-term removal of unwanted
        hair, and manufactures skin-care and other personal-care products sold
        through salons, spas, and stores. ThermoLase's hair-removal system is
        included in the Company's Advanced Technologies segment, and its
        skin-care products are included in the Company's Biomedical Products
        segment.

   Thermo Fibertek Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets a range of
   equipment and accessory products for the domestic and international paper
   industry, including de-inking and stock-preparation equipment, and
   water-management systems for paper recycling. Thermo Fibertek's products
   are included in the Company's Process Equipment segment.

   Thermo Ecotek Corporation develops and operates independent (nonutility)
   power plants. Plants currently operated by the Company are owned by third
   parties and leased on a long-term basis to the Company, or are owned by
   subsidiaries or partnerships in which the Company has ownership interests.
   Thermo Ecotek's operations are included in the Company's Alternative-energy
   Systems segment.
                                       14PAGE

   The Company also has a number of wholly owned subsidiaries and divisions
   that develop, manufacture, and market neurophysiology monitoring
   instruments, blood-coagulation monitoring products and skin-incision
   devices, electroplating and wastewater treatment lines, and steam turbines
   and gas compressors, and provide services in metallurgical heat-treating
   and specialty metals fabrication. In addition, a division of the Company
   constructed and now operates a waste-recycling facility in San Diego
   County, California.

        (ii)  New Products

   The Company's business includes the development and introduction of new
   products and may include entry into new business segments. The Company has
   made no commitments to new products that require the investment of a
   material amount of the Company's assets, nor does it have any definitive
   plans to enter new business segments that would require such an investment
   (see Section (xi) "Research and Development").

        (iii)  Raw Materials

   Thermo Cardiosystems relies upon several custom-designed components and
   materials supplied by other companies to manufacture its LVAS. In 1992,
   several suppliers of such components and materials notified Thermo
   Cardiosystems that they intended to exit the biomedical market. While the
   Company believes that it will be able to develop new sources of, or
   alternatives to, these materials and components, no assurance can be given
   that the Company will develop such sources or alternatives in a timely
   manner, or that the FDA will approve the use of any such alternative
   materials or components.

   Except as described above, in the opinion of management, the Company has a
   readily available supply of raw materials for all of its significant
   products from various sources and does not anticipate any difficulties in
   obtaining the raw materials essential to its business.

        (iv)  Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

   The Company considers patents to be important in the present operation of
   its business. However, the Company does not consider any patent, or related
   group of patents, to be of such importance that its expiration or
   termination would materially affect the Company's business taken as a
   whole. The Company seeks patent protection for inventions and developments
   made by its personnel and incorporated into its products or otherwise
   falling within its fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from work
   sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the
   Company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.

   The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and, where
   appropriate, uses trademarks or registers its products. It also enters into
   license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents
   and know-how.
                                      15PAGE

        (v)  Seasonal Influences

   There are no significant seasonal influences on the Company's sales of
   products and services.

        (vi)  Working Capital Requirements

   There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to
   customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
   working capital.

        (vii)  Dependency on a Single Customer

   No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total
   revenues in any of the past three years. The Advanced Technologies segment
   derived approximately 13% of its revenues in 1994 from contracts with
   various agencies of the U.S. government and approximately 23% of its
   revenues in 1994 from one customer for a process detection instrument. In
   connection with the development of power plants, the Company typically
   enters into long-term power supply contracts with a single customer for the
   sale of power generated by each plant. Although the Alternative-energy
   Systems segment is, therefore, dependent upon a small number of customers,
   the Company believes that the nature of its customers (typically utilities)
   and the long-term nature of these contracts significantly reduce the risk
   associated with a small customer base.

        (viii)  Backlog

   The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1994 and 1993 was as
   follows:

   (In thousands)                                             1994      1993
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Instruments                                            $139,600  $115,600
   Alternative-energy Systems                              404,100   395,900
   Process Equipment                                       199,000    36,200
   Biomedical Products                                      37,300    26,800
   Environmental Services                                   46,700    39,700
   Advanced Technologies                                    44,400    29,100
                                                          --------  --------
                                                          $871,100  $643,300
                                                          ========  ========

   Alternative-energy Systems segment backlog includes $295 million at
   year-end 1994 for revenues to be earned through 2017 from the operation of
   the Recycling Facility, construction of which was completed in early 1994
   (see "Alternative-energy Systems" under section (c), "Description of
   Business").

   Backlog includes the uncompleted portion of research and development
   contracts and the uncompleted portion of certain equipment contracts that
   are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method. The Company
   believes approximately 93% of the 1994 backlog, excluding backlog relating
   to the Recycling Facility, will be filled during fiscal 1995. The Company
   believes that approximately $13 million of the backlog relating to the
   Recycling Facility will be filled in fiscal 1995.
                                        16PAGE

        (ix)  Government Contracts
   Approximately 2% of the Company's total revenues in fiscal 1994 were
   derived from contracts or subcontracts with the federal government, which
   are subject to renegotiation of profits or termination. The Company does
   not have any knowledge of threatened or pending renegotiation or
   termination of any material contract or subcontract.

        (x)  Competition

   The Company is engaged in many highly competitive industries. The nature of
   the competition in each of the Company's markets is described below:

   Instruments

   The Company's instruments business generally competes on the basis of
   technical advances that result in new products and improved price-
   performance ratios, reputation among customers as a quality leader for
   products and services, and active research and application-development
   programs. To a lesser extent, the Company competes on the basis of price.

   The Company believes it is among the principal manufacturers specializing
   in analytical instrumentation, although it faces significant competition
   from other companies, certain of which are larger than the Company, and
   technologies in most of its product lines. The Company believes it is a
   leading supplier of mass spectrometers, FT-IR spectrometers, FT-IR and
   FT-Raman microscopes, optical plasma-emission spectrometers, and a major
   supplier of atomic absorption spectrometers. In liquid chromatography, the
   Company believes its competitors include several large companies and
   numerous specialty manufacturers. In its remaining analytical instrument
   product lines, the Company believes its competitors are mainly smaller,
   specialized firms.

   The Company is a leading manufacturer of ambient air monitoring instruments
   and a major manufacturer of source monitoring and worker-safety monitoring
   instruments. Some engineering companies compete for large ambient air
   monitoring installations, but they do not manufacture the individual
   instruments that form a major part of the system, therefore, they will
   often buy these from the Company on an OEM basis.

   The Company has a relatively small presence within the large and varied
   process control marketplace, which is extremely fragmented and comprises
   several large companies and numerous smaller companies.

   Alternative-energy Systems

   The worldwide independent power market consists of numerous companies,
   ranging from small startups to multinational industrial companies. In
   addition, a number of regulated utilities have created subsidiaries that
   compete as nonutility generators. Nonutility generators often specialize in
   market "niches," such as a specific technology or fuel (for example,
   gas-fired cogeneration, refuse-to-energy, hydropower, geothermal, wind,
   solar, wood or coal) or a specific region of the country where they believe
   they have a market advantage. However, many nonutility generators,
   including the Company, seek to develop projects on a best-available-fuel
   basis. The Company competes primarily on the basis of project experience,
   technical expertise, capital resources, and power pricing.

   The Company's sale of industrial refrigeration systems is subject to
   intense competition. The industrial refrigeration market is mature, highly
                                       17PAGE

   fragmented, and extremely dependent on close customer contacts. Major
   industrial refrigeration companies, of which the Company's FES division is
   one, account for approximately one-half of worldwide sales, with the
   balance generated by many smaller companies. The Company competes
   principally on the basis of its advanced control systems and overall
   quality, reliability, service, and price. The Company believes it is a
   leader in remanufactured refrigeration equipment. NuTemp's rental services
   business has one large competitor that supplies rental equipment. The
   Company competes in this market based on price, delivery time, and
   customized equipment.

   The Company's sale of packaged cogeneration systems is subject to intense
   competition, both direct and indirect. Direct competitors consist of
   companies that sell cogeneration products resembling those sold by the
   Company. In addition, electric utilities' pricing programs provide
   competition for the Company's cogeneration products. Indirect competitors
   include manufacturers of conventional water heaters, air conditioners, and
   electric generator sets, since the economic benefits of the Company's
   cogeneration and cooling systems depend on the cost of conventional energy
   systems. The Company believes it competes in the sale of its systems on the
   basis of several factors, including product quality and reliability,
   operational savings, ease of installation, service, and price.

   As the alternative-fuel engine market becomes fully developed, the Company
   anticipates that competition, specifically in the market for natural gas
   engines for vehicles, will be intense, and potential competitors may
   include major automotive and natural gas companies and other companies that
   have substantially greater financial resources than those of the Company.

   The Company has experienced intense competition in the marine engine
   business in recent years, primarily from the vertical integration of boat
   and engine manufacturers that has led to the acquisition of some of its
   former customers by competing engine manufacturers. Competition is
   primarily on the basis of quality, reliability, and service.

   Process Equipment

   The Company faces significant competition in the markets for paper-
   recycling, water handling and papermachine accessories equipment, and
   competes in these markets primarily on the basis of quality, service,
   technical expertise, and product innovation. The Company is a leading
   supplier of accessory equipment for papermaking machines, and competes in
   this market primarily on the basis of service, technical expertise, and
   performance.

   Although the market for metallurgical processing systems is subject to
   intense competition worldwide, competition for particular projects is
   typically limited to only a few companies. The Company competes on the
   basis of several factors, including technical performance, product quality
   and reliability, timely delivery, and price.

   Biomedical Products

   Competition in the markets for most of the Company's biomedical products,
   including those manufactured by Thermo Cardiosystems, Lorad, Nicolet
   Biomedical, and ITC, is based to a large extent upon technical performance.
   CBI competes with a number of small manufacturers and divisions of larger

                                       18PAGE

   companies primarily on the basis of relative price and quality of its
   personal-care products.

   The Company is aware of one other company that has submitted a PMA
   application with the FDA for an implantable LVAS. The Company is unaware
   whether this PMA application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. Also,
   the Company is aware of one other company that has received a favorable
   recommendation by the FDA Advisory Panel on Circulatory System Devices for
   its cardiac-assist device. This is an external device that is positioned on
   the outside of the patients' chest and is intended for short-term use in
   the hospital environment. The Company is also aware that a total artificial
   heart is currently undergoing clinical trials. The requirement of obtaining
   FDA approval for commercial sale of an LVAS is a significant barrier to
   entry into the U.S. market for these devices. There can be no assurance,
   however, that FDA regulations will not change in the future, reducing the
   time and testing required for others to obtain FDA approval for commercial
   sales. In addition, other research groups and companies are developing
   cardiac-assist systems using alternative technologies or concepts, one or
   more of which might prove functionally equivalent to or more suitable than
   the Company's systems. Among products that have been approved for
   commercial sale, the Company competes primarily on the basis of
   performance, service capability, reimbursement status, and price.

   Lorad and General Electric Company each have approximately 30% of the U.S.
   X-ray mammography market. The balance of the market is divided among
   approximately 10 other companies. The Company competes in this market
   principally on the basis of technological advances and technical service
   support and, to a lesser extent, price.

   Environmental Services

   The Company competes in the market for soil-remediation services based on
   its ability to offer customers superior protection from environmental
   liabilities using a national network of cleanup facilities. However, the
   Company faces competition in local markets from landfills, other treatment
   technologies, and from companies competing with similar technologies, which
   limits the prices that can be charged by the Company. Pricing is therefore
   a major competitive factor for the Company.

   The Company's metallurgical services business competes in specialty
   machining services. Competition is based principally on services provided,
   turnaround time, and price.

   Hundreds of independent analytical testing laboratories and consulting
   firms compete for environmental services business nationwide. Many of these
   firms use equipment and processes similar to those of the Company.
   Competition is based not only on price, but also on reputation for
   accuracy, quality, and the ability to respond rapidly to customer
   requirements. In addition, many industrial companies have their own
   in-house analytical testing capabilities. The Company believes that its
   competitive strength lies in certain niche markets within which the Company
   is recognized for its expertise.

   Advanced Technologies

   In its contract research and development business, the Company not only
   competes with other companies and institutions that perform similar
   services, but must also rely on the ability of government agencies and
                                       19PAGE

   other clients to obtain allocations of research and development monies to
   fund contracts with the Company. The Company competes for its research and
   development programs principally on the basis of technical innovations. As
   government funding becomes more scarce, particularly for defense projects,
   the competition for such funding will become more intense. In addition, as
   the Company's programs move from the development stage to commercializa-
   tion, competition is expected to intensify.

   The Company believes that its Ramsey subsidiary is the world's leading
   supplier of precision weighing and inspection systems for bulk materials
   and competes with approximately 15 regional companies of significant size
   on the basis of performance, service, and price. Ramsey is also one of the
   five leading world suppliers of product quality assurance systems for
   packaged products. Ramsey's competitors in this market differ from those in
   the bulk materials market and the Company competes on the basis of
   performance, service and, to a lesser extent, price.

   The Company's product quality assurance systems compete with chemical-
   detection systems manufactured by several companies and with other
   technologies and processes for product quality assurance. Competition in
   the markets for all of the Company's detection products is based primarily
   on performance, service and price.

   There are a number of competing technologies for instruments that detect
   explosives and narcotics, including makers of other chemical-detection
   instruments as well as enhanced X-ray detectors. Since the Federal Aviation
   Administration (FAA) has not required that U.S. airports and airlines buy
   advanced explosives-detection equipment, the Company has not sold any EGIS
   systems to U.S. airlines. The Company believes that companies whose devices
   are required by the FAA will have a substantial competitive advantage in
   the United States.

   The Company is a leading supplier of pulsed electromagnetic interference
   testing equipment in the U.S., and believes that it is also among the
   leading suppliers in Europe and the Pacific Rim, other than Japan. The
   Company competes in this market primarily on the basis of performance,
   technical expertise, and reputation.

   The Company estimates that there are approximately 20 companies that
   independently manufacture and market high-voltage power supply systems of
   the general type manufactured and marketed by Thermo Voltek. Thermo Voltek
   competes for both contracts and commercial sales primarily on the basis of
   technical expertise, product performance, and reputation.

        (xi)  Research and Development

   During 1994, 1993, and 1992, the Company expended $99,777,000, $79,378,000,
   and $58,101,000, respectively, on research and development. Of these
   amounts, $20,925,000, $20,435,000, and $19,426,000 were sponsored by
   customers and $78,852,000, $58,943,000, and $38,675,000 were
   Company-sponsored. Approximately 807 professional employees were engaged
   full-time in research and development activities at December 31, 1994.
                                    20PAGE

        (xii)  Environmental Protection Regulations
                                       
   The Company believes that compliance with federal, state, and local
   environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse
   effect on its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

        (xiii)  Number of Employees

   At December 31, 1994, the Company employed 10,234 persons.

   (d)  Financial Information about Exports by Domestic Operations and about
        Foreign Operations

   Financial information about exports by domestic operations and about
   foreign operations is summarized in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial
   Statements in the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
   incorporated herein by reference.

   (e)  Executive Officers of the Registrant

                                      Present Title (Year First
   Name                          Age  Became Executive Officer)
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   George N. Hatsopoulos (1)     68   Chairman of the Board, President, Chief
                                      Executive Officer, and Director (1956)
   John N. Hatsopoulos (1)       60   Executive Vice President and Chief
                                      Financial Officer (1968)
   Robert C. Howard              64   Executive Vice President (1968)
   Peter G. Pantazelos           64   Executive Vice President (1968)
   Arvin H. Smith                65   Executive Vice President (1983)
   William A. Rainville          53   Senior Vice President (1993)
   Paul F. Kelleher              52   Vice President, Finance (1982)

   (1) George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos are brothers.

   Each executive officer serves until his successor is chosen or appointed
   and qualified or until earlier resignation, death, or removal. All
   executive officers have held comparable positions with the Company for at
   least the last five years.


   Item 2.  Properties

   The location and general character of the Company's principal properties by
   industry segment as of December 31, 1994, are as follows:

   Instruments

   The Company owns approximately 1,203,000 square feet of office,
   engineering, laboratory, and production space, principally in California,
   Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, Wisconsin, Germany, and England, and leases
   approximately 957,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and
   production space principally in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts,
   Texas, Wisconsin, Germany, and Japan, under leases expiring from 1995 to
   2017.
                                     21PAGE


   Alternative-energy Systems
   The Company owns approximately 298,000 square feet of office, engineering,
   and production space in Pennsylvania and England, and leases approximately
   397,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production
   space principally in Illinois, Massachusetts and Michigan, under leases
   expiring from 1995 to 2017.

   The Company operates four independent power plants in California, Maine,
   and New Hampshire, under leases expiring from 2003 to 2009. The Company
   owns three independent power plants in New Hampshire and California and a
   waste-recycling facility in California.

   Process Equipment

   The Company owns approximately 1,234,000 square feet of office, laboratory,
   and production space, principally in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York,
   Canada, England, France, and Mexico, and leases approximately 402,000
   square feet of office, engineering, and production space principally in
   Georgia, Michigan, and Wisconsin, under leases expiring from 1996 to 2004.

   Biomedical Products

   The Company owns approximately 97,000 square feet of office and production
   space in Connecticut and New Jersey, and leases approximately 484,000
   square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production space in
   Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Texas, under leases expiring from
   1995 to 2009.

   Environmental Services

   The Company owns approximately 4,512,000 square feet of office, laboratory,
   and production space, principally in California, Florida, Maryland,
   Minnesota, Oregon, South Carolina, and the Netherlands, and leases
   approximately 1,487,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and
   production space principally in Arizona, California, Massachusetts, New
   Jersey, New Mexico, South Carolina, Virginia, and Washington under leases
   expiring from 1995 to 2008.

   Advanced Technologies and Corporate Headquarters

   The Company owns approximately 136,000 square feet of office space in
   Massachusetts and New York and leases approximately 489,000 square feet of
   office, engineering, and laboratory space principally in California,
   Massachusetts, Minnesota, England, Italy, and the Netherlands, under leases
   expiring from 1995 to 2003.

   The Company believes that its facilities are in good condition and are
   suitable and adequate to meet its current needs, and that suitable
   replacements are available on commercially reasonable terms for any leases
   that expire in 1995 in the event that the Company is unable to renew such
   leases on reasonable terms.


   Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   The Company participates in the operation of the Dade County Downtown
   Government Center cogeneration facility in Miami, Florida, through a 50/50
   joint venture of subsidiaries of the Company and Rolls-Royce, Inc. This
   facility and the joint venture are involved in regulatory and other legal
                                       22PAGE

   proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Florida Public
   Service Commission and in court. See the information pertaining to this
   matter in Note 7 to Consolidated Financial Statements, and under the
   caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
   Results of Operations," in the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to
   Shareholders (filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K),
   which information is incorporated herein by reference.

   Certain subsidiaries of the Company have been notified that the U.S.
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined that a release or a
   substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance, as defined in the
   Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980
   (CERCLA or the Superfund law), occurred at sites to which chemical or other
   wastes generated by the manufacturing operations of these companies may
   have been sent. These notifications generally also allege that these
   companies may be potentially responsible parties with respect to the
   remedial actions needed to control or clean up any such releases. Under
   CERCLA, responsible parties can include current and previous owners of the
   site, generators of hazardous substances disposed of at the site, and
   transporters of hazardous substances to the site. Each responsible party
   can be jointly and severally liable, without regard to fault or negligence,
   for all costs associated with site remediation. In each instance the
   Company believes that its subsidiary is one of several companies that
   received such notification and who may likewise be held liable for any such
   remedial costs.

   The Company is also involved in situations under state environmental laws
   with respect to certain other sites where remediation may be required. The
   Company is conducting investigative or remediation activities at these
   sites pursuant to arrangements with state environmental agencies.

   The Company evaluates its potential liability as a responsible party for
   these environmental matters on an ongoing basis subject to factors such as
   the estimated remediation costs, the nature and duration of the Company's
   involvement with the site, the financial strength of other potentially
   responsible parties, and the availability of indemnification from previous
   owners of acquired businesses. Estimated liabilities are accrued in
   accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,
   "Accounting for Contingencies." To date, the Company has not incurred any
   significant liability with respect to any of these sites and anticipates
   that future liabilities related to sites where the Company is currently a
   potentially responsible party or is otherwise conducting investigative or
   remediation activities, will not have a material adverse effect on its
   business, results of operations, or financial position.


   Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   Not applicable.





                                        23PAGE

                                     PART II


   Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
           Matters

   Information concerning the market and market price for the Registrant's
   Common Stock, $1.00 par value, and related matters, is included under the
   sections labeled "Common Stock Market Information" and "Dividend Policy" in
   the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
   herein by reference.

   Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The information required under this item is included under the sections
   "Ten Year Financial Summary" and "Dividend Policy" in the Registrant's 1994
   Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

   Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations

   The information required under this item is included under the heading
   "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
   Operations" in the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
   incorporated herein by reference.


   Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1994,
   are included in the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
   incorporated herein by reference.


   Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosures

   Not Applicable.















                                         24PAGE

                                    PART III

   Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The information concerning directors required under this item is
   incorporated herein by reference from the material contained under the
   caption "Election of Directors" in the Registrant's definitive proxy
   statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant
   to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
   year. The information concerning delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
   Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the material
   contained under the heading "Disclosure of Certain Late Filings" under the
   caption "Stock Ownership" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to
   be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation
   14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

   Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Executive
   Compensation" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed
   with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not
   later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


   Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Stock Ownership"
   in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later
   than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

   Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Relationship with
   Affiliates" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with
   the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not
   later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.















                                        25PAGE

                                     PART IV

   Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

   (a), (d)  Financial Statements and Schedules

             (1)  The financial statements set forth in the list below are
                  filed as part of this Report.
             (2)  The financial statement schedule set forth in the list below
                  is filed as part of this Report.
             (3)  Exhibits filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference
                  are set forth in Item 14(c) below.

             List of Financial Statements and Schedules Referenced in this
             Item 14

             Information incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 filed
             herewith:

                  Consolidated Statement of Income
                  Consolidated Balance Sheet
                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                  Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Report of Independent Public Accountants

             Financial Schedule included herewith:

             Schedule II:  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

             All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
             or not required, or because the required information is shown
             either in the financial statements or in the notes thereto.

   (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

   During the Company's fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1994, the Company
   was not required to file, and did not file, any Current Report on Form 8-K.
   On March 6, 1995, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K pertaining
   to Thermo Instruments' pending acquisition of Fisons plc.

   (c)  Exhibits

          See Exhibit Index on the page immediately preceding exhibits.














                                       26PAGE

                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

   Date: March 7, 1995

                                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION


                                           By:George N. Hatsopoulos
                                              George N. Hatsopoulos
                                              President and Chief Executive
                                              Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
   Registrant and in the capacities indicated, as of March 7, 1995.

      Signature                            Title

   By:George N. Hatsopoulos                President, Chief Executive Officer,
      George N. Hatsopoulos                Chairman of the Board and Director

   By:John N. Hatsopoulos                  Executive Vice President and Chief
      John N. Hatsopoulos                  Financial Officer

   By:Paul F. Kelleher                     Vice President, Finance
      Paul F. Kelleher                     (Chief Accounting officer)

   By:John M. Albertine                    Director
      John M. Albertine  

   By:                                     Director
      Peter O. Crisp

   By:Elias P. Gyftopoulos                 Director
      Elias P. Gyftopoulos

   By:Frank Jungers                        Director
      Frank Jungers

   By:Robert A. McCabe                     Director
      Robert A. McCabe

   By:Frank E. Morris                      Director
      Frank E. Morris

   By:Donald E. Noble                      Director
      Donald E. Noble

   By:Hutham S. Olayan                     Director
      Hutham S. Olayan

   By:Roger D. Wellington                  Director
      Roger D. Wellington

                                       27PAGE

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants



   To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
   Thermo Electron Corporation:


   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
   the consolidated financial statements included in Thermo Electron
   Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in
   this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 10, 1995
   (except with respect to the matters discussed in Note 15 as to which the
   date is March 1, 1995). Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an
   opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in Item
   14 on page 26 is the responsibility of the Company's management and is
   presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission's rules and is not part of the basic consolidated financial
   statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures
   applied in the audits of the basic consolidated financial statements and,
   in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
   required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic consolidated
   financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                Arthur Andersen LLP



   Boston, Massachusetts
   February 10, 1995























                                       28PAGE

   SCHEDULE II


                           Thermo Electron Corporation

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)


                          Year Ended December 31, 1994

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Allowance for
     Doubtful
     Accounts     $14,129   $ 4,225   $ 7,646   $   268   $(4,649)  $21,619
   ========================================================================


                           Year Ended January 1, 1994

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Allowance for
    Doubtful
    Accounts      $11,341   $ 2,675   $ 1,532   $ 1,961   $(3,380)  $14,129
   ========================================================================


                           Year Ended January 2, 1993

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Allowance for
     Doubtful
     Accounts     $10,865   $ 2,021   $ 1,760   $   144   $(3,449)  $11,341
   ========================================================================


   (a)  Allowances of businesses acquired during the year as described in Note
        3 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1994 Annual
        Report to Shareholders.




                                       29PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

      2.1       Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement among the
                 Registrant, Thermo Instrument Corporation and Fisons
                 plc dated March 1, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 2.3 to Thermo
                 Instrument's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). Pursuant to Item
                 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, schedules to this
                 Agreement have been omitted. The Company hereby
                 undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of such
                 schedules to the Commission upon request.

      3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
                 Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3(i) to the
                 Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                 quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

      3.2       By-laws of the Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit
                 3.2 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

      4.1       Fiscal Agency Agreement dated July 29, 1992 between the
                 Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to the
                 Registrant's 4 5/8% Senior Convertible Debentures due
                 1997 (filed as Exhibit 19 to the Registrant's Quarterly
                 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 1992
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

                Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of April 15, 1994
                 between the Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to
                 the Registrant's 5% Senior Convertible Debentures due
                 2001 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's
                 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                 April 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein
                 by reference).

                The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item
                 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, to furnish to the
                 Commission upon request, a copy of each instrument with
                 respect to other long-term debt of the Registrant or
                 its consolidated subsidiaries.

      4.2       Rights Agreement dated as of May 4, 1988 between the
                 Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston, which
                 includes as Exhibit A the Form of Certificate of
                 Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights
                 Certificate, and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights to
                 Purchase Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 1 to the
                 Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
                 declared effective by the Commission on June 25, 1988
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

                                       30PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.1       Thermo Electron Corporate Charter as amended and
                 restated effective January 3, 1993 (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.2       Form of Severance Benefit Agreement with officers
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.3       Form of Indemnification Agreement with directors and
                 officers (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                 herein by reference).

     10.4       Loan and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December
                 1, 1991 among North County Resource Recovery
                 Associates; Union Bank of Switzerland; National
                 Westminster Bank PLC and Banque Paribas, New York
                 Branch, as lead managers; Credit Local de France as
                 co-lead manager; and Union Bank of Switzerland as
                 issuing bank and as agent (filed as Exhibit 10.39 to
                 the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.5       Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement dated as
                 of December 31, 1993 among Chemical Trust Company of
                 California as Owner Trustee; Delano Energy Company
                 Inc.; ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, for itself and
                 as Agent; The First National Bank of Boston, as
                 Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Societe
                 Generale, as Co-agent; and BayBank, as Lead Manager
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.6       Amended and Restated Participation Agreement dated as
                 of December 31, 1991 among Delano Energy Company Inc.;
                 Thermo Energy Systems Corporation; Chemical Trust
                 Company of California, as Owner Trustee; ABN AMRO Bank
                 N.V., Boston Branch, as Co-agent; Bank of Montreal, as
                 Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Society
                 Generale, as Co-agent; BayBank, as Lead Manager; and
                 ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Island Branch, and joined in
                 by the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002].


                                       31PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.7       Turnkey Engineering, Procurement, Construction and
                 Initial Operation Agreement for a deinking pulp
                 facility dated as of November 1, 1994 between the
                 Registrant, as contractor, and Great Lakes Pulp
                 Partners I, L.P., as owner. Pursuant to Item 601(b)(2)
                 of Regulation S-K, schedules to this Agreement have
                 been omitted. The Company hereby undertakes to furnish
                 supplementally a copy of such schedules to the
                 Commission upon request.

   10.8 - 10.20 Reserved.

     10.21      Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                 Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's Registration Statement
                 on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in
                 the aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 6,023,437 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                 1984 and 1986, and share decrease approved in 1989, and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 October 1993).

     10.22      Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed
                 as Exhibit 4(e) to the Registrant's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Plan amended in
                 1984 to extend expiration date to December 14, 1994;
                 maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Registrant's Incentive Stock
                 Option Plan is 6,023,437 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases approved in 1984 and 1986, and
                 share decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock
                 splits effected in October 1986 and October 1993).

     10.23      Deferred Compensation for Directors of the Registrant
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 301,875 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1986 and 1992 and 3-for-2 stock
                 splits effected in October 1986 and October 1993).

     10.24      Equity Incentive Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No.
                 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Plan
                 amended in 1989 to restrict exercise price for SEC
                 reporting persons to not less than 50% of fair market
                 value or par value; maximum number of shares issuable
                 is 4,700,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in October 1993 and share
                 increase approved in 1994).

                                       32PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.25      Amended and Restated Directors' Stock Option Plan of
                 the Registrant.

     10.26      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4 to a
                 Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermedics [Reg.
                 No. 2-93747] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable is 450,000 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 1988, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January 1985,
                 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985, and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).

     10.27      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                 Inc. (formerly Thermo Environmental Corporation)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(c)
                 to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermo
                 Instrument [Reg. No. 33-8034] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 225,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2
                 stock split effected in July 1993).

     10.28      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                 Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No.
                 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable is 320,152 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in 1988
                 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in January 1988 and
                 July 1993).

     10.29      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Process Systems
                 Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                 10.13 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No.
                 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable is 108,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect 6-for-5 stock splits effected in
                 July 1988 and March 1989, and 3-for-2 stock split
                 effected in September 1989).

     10.30      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Power Corporation
                 (formerly Tecogen Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).






                                       33PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.31      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Cardiosystems Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.11
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable is 130,500 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increases approved in 1990 and 1992,
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in January 1990, 5-for-4
                 stock split effected in May 1990, and 2-for-1 stock
                 split effected in November 1993).

     10.32      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Ecotek Corporation
                 (formerly Thermo Energy Systems Corporation)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.33      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoTrex Corporation
                 (formerly Thermo Electron Technologies Corporation)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable is 180,000 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                 October 1993).

     10.34      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibertek Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 28, 1991 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable is 400,000 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect 2-for-1 stock split effected in September
                 1992).

     10.35      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Voltek Corp.
                 (formerly Universal Voltronics Corp.) Nonqualified
                 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 7,500 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in November 1993).










                                       34PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.36      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy
                 Systems Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo Ecotek
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 900,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 December 1993).

     10.37      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Energy Systems
                 Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo Ecotek
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 900,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 December 1993).

     10.38      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy
                 Systems Corporation) Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.39 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.39      Thermedics Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermedics' Registration Statement
                 on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in
                 the aggregate under this plan and the Thermedics
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,931,923 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1986
                 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January 1985,
                 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985, and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).

     10.40      Thermedics Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10(d) to Thermedics' Registration Statement on
                 Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermedics
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 1,931,923 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                 1986 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January
                 1985, 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985,
                 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).



                                       35PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.41      Thermedics Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated May 10, 1993 of
                 Thermedics [File No. 1-9567] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 1,500,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2
                 stock split effected in November 1993).

     10.42      Thermedics Inc. - Thermedics Detection Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.20
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.43      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Thermo Cardiosystems'
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-25144]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Cardiosystems Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 is 1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split effected
                 in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split effected in May
                 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split effected in November
                 1993).

     10.44      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Thermo Cardiosystems'
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-25144]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Cardiosystems Incentive Stock Option Plan is
                 1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split effected
                 in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split effected in May
                 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split effected in November
                 1993).

     10.45      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.46 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.46      Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
                 Corp.) 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14
                 to Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended June 30, 1985 [File No. 0-8245] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 200,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect 1-for-3 reverse stock split effected in
                 November 1992 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                 November 1993).



                                       36PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.47      Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
                 Corp.) 1990 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
                 Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 [File No. 1-10574] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 400,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increase in 1993, 1-for-3 reverse stock
                 split effected in November 1992, 3-for-2 stock split
                 effected in November 1993, and share increase approved
                 in 1994).

     10.48      Thermo Voltek Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.49 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.49      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Incentive Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(c) to Thermo Instrument's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6762]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is
                 1,500,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1990 and 3-for-2 stock splits
                 effected in January 1988 and July 1993).

     10.50      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock
                 Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo
                 Instrument's Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg.
                 No. 33-6762] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Thermo Instrument Incentive
                 Stock Option Plan is 1,500,000 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increase approved in 1990 and 3-for-2
                 stock splits effected in January 1988 and July 1993).

     10.51      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
                 (filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated April
                 27, 1993 of Thermo Instrument [File No. 1-9786] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 2,150,000 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increase approved in December 1993 and
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in July 1993).

     10.52      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
                 Environmental Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo Environmental's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-329]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument (formerly Thermo Environmental)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 618,750 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in 1987
                 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in July 1993).
                                       37PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.53      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
                 Environmental Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermo Environmental's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-329]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument (formerly Thermo Environmental)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 618,750 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in 1987
                 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in July 1993).

     10.54      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. - ThermoSpectra Corporation
                Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.51 to
                Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and
                incorporated herein by reference).

     10.55      ThermoSpectra Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                Exhibit 10.52 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No.
                1-9786] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.56      ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
                 Technologies Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to ThermoTrex's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-40972] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoTrex Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is
                 1,945,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1992 and 1993, and 3-for-2 stock
                 split effected in October 1993).

     10.57      ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
                 Technologies Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to ThermoTrex's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-40972]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoTrex Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,945,000
                 shares, after adjustment to reflect share increases
                 approved in 1992 and 1993, and 3-for-2 stock split
                 effected in October 1993).

     10.58      ThermoTrex Corporation - ThermoLase Corporation
                 (formerly ThermoLase Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.53 to ThermoTrex's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and incorporated
                 herein by reference).





                                       38PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.59      ThermoLase Corporation (formerly ThermoLase Inc.)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.54
                 to ThermoTrex Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994 [File No.
                 1-10791] and incorporated herein by reference) (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable in the aggregate under this
                 plan and the ThermoLase Incentive Stock Option Plan is
                 1,400,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1993 and 2-for-1 stock split
                 effected in March 1994).

     10.60      ThermoLase Corporation (formerly ThermoLase Inc.)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.55 to
                 ThermoTrex's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoLase Nonqualified stock option plan is
                 1,400,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1993 and 2-for-1 stock split
                 effected in March 1994).

     10.61      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10(k) to Thermo Fibertek's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-51172] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.62      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to Thermo Fibertek's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-51172]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.63      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.60 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.64      Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to
                 Thermo Power's Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg.
                 No. 33-14017] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Thermo Power Nonqualified Stock
                 Option Plan is 950,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases approved in 1990, 1992, and
                 1993).








                                       39PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page

     10.65      Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i)
                 to Thermo Power's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                 [Reg. No. 33-14017] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo Power
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 950,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1990,
                 1992, and 1993).

     10.66      Thermo Power Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.63 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.67      Thermo Process Systems Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to Thermo Process' Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6763] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Process Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is
                 1,850,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1987, 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5
                 stock splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989, and
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1989).

     10.68      Thermo Process Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to Thermo Process'
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6763]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Process Incentive Stock Option Plan is
                 1,850,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1987, 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5
                 stock splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989, and
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1989).

     10.69      Thermo Process Systems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.63 to Thermedics' Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 1994 [File No.
                 1-9567] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable is 1,750,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increased approved in
                 1994).

     10.70      Thermo Process Systems Inc. - Thermo Remediation Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(l)
                 to Thermo Process' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                 the fiscal quarter ended January 1, 1994 [File No.
                 1-9549] and incorporated herein by reference).




                                       40PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


   Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page


     10.71      Thermo Remediation Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.7 to Thermo Remediation's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-70544] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.72       Thermedics Detection Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.69 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No.
                 1-9786] and incorporated herein by reference).

     11         Computation of earnings per share.

     13         Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
                 December 31, 1994 (only those portions incorporated
                 herein by reference).

     21         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23         Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

     27         Financial Data Schedule.

































