
10-K
tmok02.txt

                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549
              ----------------------------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

(mark one)
[ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2002

[   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                                              04-2209186
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
Waltham, Massachusetts                                                02454-9046
(Address of principal executive offices)                              (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 622-1000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------------------        -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $1.00 par value                            New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                          New York Stock Exchange
3 1/4% Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2007      American Stock Exchange
4% Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2005          American Stock Exchange

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for
at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [ X ]  No [   ]

As of June 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant was approximately $2,774,137,000. The stock
price used in this computation was the last sales price on that date.

As of January 24, 2003, the Registrant had 163,187,218 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Sections of Thermo Electron Corporation's definitive Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts II and
III of this report.




<

>


                                     PART I
Item 1.    Business

General Development of Business

       Thermo Electron Corporation (also referred to in this document as "Thermo
Electron," "we," the "company," or the "registrant") is a world leader in
high-tech instruments. The company helps life science, laboratory, and
industrial customers advance scientific knowledge, enable drug discovery,
improve manufacturing processes, and protect people and the environment with
instruments, scientific equipment, and sample-in/knowledge-out solutions. The
company's powerful technologies help researchers make discoveries that will
fight disease or prolong life. They automatically monitor and control online
production to ensure the quality and safety of raw materials as well as the
end-products themselves. And they are critical components embedded as enabling
technologies within scientific and industrial devices.

       In the late 1980s, Thermo Electron adopted a strategy of spinning out
certain businesses into separate public subsidiaries in which we kept a majority
ownership. By 1997, we had spun out 22 public entities serving many diverse
markets. To simplify our structure, we announced in January 2000 a major
reorganization that ultimately resulted in taking private all of our public
subsidiaries, selling noncore businesses, and spinning off our paper recycling
and medical products businesses. As part of the reorganization, we divested of
businesses with aggregate annual revenues of approximately $2 billion. This
reorganization was substantially completed in February 2002, when we took
private Spectra-Physics, Inc., our last publicly traded subsidiary.

       The businesses spun off and sold as part of our reorganization have been
accounted for as discontinued operations (see "Business Segments and Products").
The company's continuing operations solely include its instrument businesses.
Except where indicated, the information presented in this report pertains to our
continuing operations.

       Our strategy going forward is to focus on integrating our operations to
improve productivity and enable us to better serve our customers with improved
products, technologies, and complete integrated systems and services. We also
intend to emphasize internal growth by pursuing developments in the markets that
we serve that have potential for high growth. In addition, we plan to augment
that growth with strategic acquisitions that expand the reach of our technology
by either rounding out our product lines or bringing them to new markets.

       Thermo Electron is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956.
The company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the
New York Stock Exchange in 1980.

Forward-looking Statements

       Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), are made throughout this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any statements contained herein that are not
statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans,"
"expects," "seeks," "estimates," and similar expressions are intended to
identify forward-looking statements. While the company may elect to update
forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims any
obligation to do so, even if the company's estimates change, and readers should
not rely on those forward-looking statements as representing the company's views
as of any date subsequent to the date of the filing of this report.

       A number of important factors could cause the results of the company to
differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements,
including those detailed under the heading "Forward-looking Statements" in Part
II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations."

<

>



Business Segments and Products

       We report our business in three principal segments (also called
"sectors"): Life and Laboratory Sciences, Measurement and Control, and Optical
Technologies.

       During 2002, the company transferred management responsibility for
several businesses between sectors as follows: (1) the spectroscopy businesses
were moved to the Life and Laboratory Sciences sector from the Measurement and
Control sector; (2) the temperature-control businesses were moved to the
Measurement and Control sector from the Optical Technologies sector; (3) the
electrochemistry products business was moved to the Measurement and Control
sector from the Life and Laboratory Sciences sector; and (4) the Thermo Projects
unit was moved from a separate sector (previously included as "Other") to the
Life and Laboratory Sciences sector. Prior-period sector information has been
restated to reflect these changes.

Life and Laboratory Sciences

       We address the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, and other
research and industrial laboratory markets, as well as the clinical laboratory
and healthcare industries, through our Life and Laboratory Sciences sector.
During 2002, this sector was organized as five divisions: Bioscience
Technologies, Analytical Instruments, Spectroscopy, Informatics and Services,
and Clinical Diagnostics.

       Bioscience Technologies encompasses a broad range of instruments,
consumables, and robotic systems such as microplate-based handling and reading
equipment; polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermal cyclers for deoxyribonucleic
acid (DNA) amplification; magnetic particle-based molecular separation
instruments; laboratory automation, software, and instruments; and single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) scoring systems. Consumables include reagents,
microtiter plates, liquid-handling pipettes, and pipette tips. Robotic systems
include individual microplate movers and other instrumentation combined with
sophisticated integration software to produce application-specific workstations.
These products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery
and development, testing, and quality control, and by biotechnology companies
and universities for life science research to help fight disease and prolong
life. These products are typically used on the "front end" of multi-instrument
systems, to prepare and handle samples prior to the samples being loaded into
other, advanced instruments.

       This division also includes a range of scientific equipment used for the
preparation and preservation of chemical and biological samples, principally in
research settings for pharmaceutical, academic, and government customers.
Products include cell culture incubators, ultralow-temperature freezers,
high-speed centrifuges, centrifugal vacuum concentrators, biological safety
cabinets, cryopreservation storage tanks, and laboratory freeze-dryers.

       Analytical Instruments includes our offerings of ion trap, quadrupole,
and magnetic sector mass spectrometers (MS), liquid chromatographs (LC) and gas
chromatographs (GC), and hyphenated multi-instrument combinations of these
products. Our integrated solutions include state-of-the-art instrument systems,
advanced software, and consumables such as the vials, syringes, and columns
necessary for chromatography. Our systems are tailored to meet the rigorous
demands of lab professionals in applications such as drug discovery and life
science research, environmental analysis, and analytical quantitation.

       A significant and growing application for these instruments is
proteomics, the study of proteins. Most drugs - about 90 percent - interact with
proteins, so multi-instrument systems that can rapidly identify and quantify
proteins are of increasing value to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers.
We continue to introduce new systems that offer a total solution for
high-throughput analysis. For example, our ProteomeXTM multidimensional LC/MS
system is a complete proteomics workstation that now enables routine
identification and quantitation of the thousands of proteins in a complex
sample. It offers sample preparation, analysis, and knowledge management in a
fully integrated system.

       Spectroscopy instruments use various optical techniques to determine the
elemental and molecular composition of a wide range of complex liquids and
solids. We manufacture atomic absorption (AA), inductively coupled plasma (ICP),
inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometer (ICP-MS), Fourier transform
infrared (FT-IR), near-infrared (NIR), Optical Emission, Raman,
ultraviolet/visible (UV-Vis), fluorescence, X-ray diffractometry (XRD), and
X-ray

<

>


fluorescence (XRF) instruments - as well microscopes, sampling accessories,
software, and spectral reference databases. Customers include pharmaceutical,
polymer, petrochemical, food, semiconductor, energy, steel, and basic material
producers, who typically use these instruments for quality assurance and quality
control applications primarily in a laboratory.

       Informatics and Services offers laboratory information management systems
(LIMS), chromatography data systems, analytical data archival, and instrument
integration solutions to customers in regulated and nonregulated industries such
as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, petrochemicals, chemicals, and food and
beverage. We also provide desktop spectroscopy software for data processing,
data management, 3-D data viewing, spectral reference databases, and
chemometrics. These systems are critical to regulatory compliance because they
facilitate the monitoring and analysis of samples by storing and organizing the
massive amounts of analytical data gathered in laboratories, industrial
settings, and clinical-testing sites.

       We also provide a global services network of experienced consultants
focused on the successful implementation of our customers' projects.
Wide-ranging services include project planning, management of user workshops,
defining business requirements, milestone delivery, systems integration,
workflow modeling, and validation consultancy - in short, everything from
installation to complete integration and automation of the laboratory.

       Clinical Diagnostics provides equipment and supplies used by healthcare
laboratories in doctors' offices and hospitals to detect and diagnose disease.
Products in this group include sample-preparation instruments and materials to
highlight abnormal cells, blood gas and ion-selective electrolyte (ISE)
consumables, chemistry reagents, clinical-biochemistry instruments and
automation equipment, and rapid diagnostic tests for use in physicians' offices.
Our rapid diagnostic products have extremely high sensitivity and specificity to
test for infectious diseases, including Group A and B Streptococcus; Influenza A
and B; Chlamydia; Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), the most common cause of
lower respiratory tract infections in children worldwide; and Clostridium
difficile Toxin A. We also supply a complete line of equipment and consumables
for anatomical pathology laboratories.

Measurement and Control

       We provide a range of real-time, online sensors, monitors, and control
systems to customers in key industrial markets - from chemical, pharmaceutical,
and food and beverage to minerals and mining, and steel - through our
Measurement and Control sector. These products enable customers to control and
optimize their manufacturing processes to increase quality, improve
productivity, and ensure worker safety, environmental protection, and regulatory
compliance. In addition, we offer a comprehensive range of fixed and portable
chemical, radiation, and explosives-detection instruments to help ensure the
safety of public places and people. During 2002, this sector was organized as
three divisions: Process Instruments, Environmental Instruments, and Temperature
Control.

       Process Instruments includes a comprehensive family of online weighing
and inspection equipment for consumer products, packaged goods, and bulk
materials. Products for the packaged and consumer goods market ensure that each
package contains the proper quantity of a specific item. For example, we use a
variety of technologies, including X-ray imaging and ultratrace chemical
detection, to inspect food, beverage, and pharmaceutical packages to see that
they are free of physical contaminants, have the appropriate quantity of
material, or have no missing or broken parts. In bulk materials, our product
line includes solids-flow-monitoring and level measurement for a wide variety of
process industries including food, chemicals, plastics, and pharmaceuticals.

       Also included in this division are online process-optimization systems
that use proprietary, ultrahigh-speed, noninvasive measurement technologies to
analyze, in real time, the physical and chemical properties of streams of raw
materials, such as coal, cement, minerals, and pharmaceuticals. This technology
allows the entire stream of material to be analyzed and eliminates the need for
off-line sampling, which can add production time, waste, and cost. We also
manufacture systems that measure the total thickness, basis weight, and coating
thickness of web-type finished materials, such as metal strip, plastics, foil,
rubber, glass, and paper.

<

>


       In addition, we provide sophisticated systems for the field-measurement
and sensor sector of the process-control market to improve efficiency, provide
process and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance, and increase worker
safety. These systems provide real-time data collection, analysis, and local
control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar,
ultrasonic, and vibrational measurement principles, as well as flow-monitoring
meters, gas chromatography, mass spectrography, and X-ray fluorescence.
Industries served include oil and gas, chemical, semiconductor, pharmaceutical,
electric utility, minerals and mining, water and wastewater treatment, and pulp
and paper.

       Environmental Instruments serves four major markets: air quality, water
analysis, radiation measurement and protection, and security. Air-quality
instruments are used for environmental air monitoring, gas detection, and
hazardous chemical detection. These include continuous gaseous and aerosol
instruments for monitoring ambient air and emissions, measuring such compounds
as common air pollutants, aerosols, organic halogens, and carbon. We also
provide a comprehensive line of gas detectors for controlling and detecting the
presence of combustible and toxic gases for worker and plant safety. These
products range from simple handheld, general-purpose portable equipment to more
sophisticated fixed systems.

       Used both in laboratory and process environments, our water-analysis
products include pH and ISE and other technologies for quality assurance and
regulatory compliance, primarily in the environmental, food and beverage,
chemical, pharmaceutical, and biomedical-research industries. These products
determine the quality of various substances, from food and pharmaceuticals to
water and wastewater, by measuring their pH, specific ion concentration,
dissolved oxygen, and conductivity.

       Radiation measurement and protection products monitor and detect
radiation in nuclear, environmental, industrial, medical, and security
applications. These products include portable and fixed radiation and
contamination monitors, as well as personal dosimetry products used for
protecting workers that are at risk of radiation exposure.

       Our security products include a comprehensive range of fixed and portable
instruments used for chemical, radiation, and explosives-detection. These
products are used in airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings,
and other high-threat facilities. They are also used by emergency response teams
and are critical for the detection and prevention of terrorist acts, as well as
for the emergency and forensic response to such events.

       Temperature Control systems are necessary for laser, semiconductor,
analytical, medical, laboratory, industrial, and R&D applications, and we are a
leading manufacturer of precision temperature-control products for these
markets. Products include a complete line of heated/refrigerated circulating
baths, immersion coolers, and recirculating chillers. In addition, we supply
instruments that analyze materials for viscosity, surface tension, and thermal
properties. Customers include the food and pharmaceutical industries as well as
manufacturers of paints, inks, coatings, and adhesives, who depend on
high-precision viscometers to maintain the quality and consistency of their
products.

Optical Technologies

       We are a leader in lasers, photonics, and semiconductor equipment and
test systems. Products within the Optical Technologies sector are used in
multiple markets - particularly the scientific instrument, microelectronics,
industrial processes, and biomedical industries. During 2002, these products
were grouped into three divisions: Lasers, Photonics, and Semiconductor.

       Lasers encompasses Spectra-Physics, which is a global leader in the
design, development, manufacture, and distribution of high-power semiconductor
and solid-state lasers for industrial, scientific, electronics, and biomedical
markets. For example, nitrogen lasers used as an ionization source in mass
spectrometers enable scientists to study proteins, peptides, and other large
molecules in biomedical research. High-power semiconductor lasers are used in
such applications as direct-to-press printing, cosmetic and therapeutic medical
procedures, and they are key in the drive to make next-generation semiconductor
devices smaller, thinner, and faster. High-power solid-state lasers are used in
PC board manufacturing, rapid prototyping, bioinstrumentation, metrology, and
scientific research.

<

>


       Photonics includes optical and optoelectronics components and systems
that make, move, and manipulate light. These products are used in a variety of
applications and industries, including scientific and medical instruments and
semiconductor manufacturing. For example, our diffraction gratings are used in
the line-narrowing packages of excimer lasers used for photolithography systems
in semiconductor manufacturing. Products also include Corion thin-film
interference filters, Hilger scintillation and electro-optic crystals, Oriel
optical components and instruments, and CIDTEC charged-injection device (CID)
solid-state video cameras. The Book of Photon Tools offers catalog customers a
full complement of laser and photonics products, as well as technical
information.

       Semiconductor products include compositional metrology tools, used to
analyze defects in ultrathin surface layers of a semiconductor chip and in R&D
for next-generation semiconductor devices. We also manufacture capital equipment
used to test and produce chips, including molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems
for the production of compound semiconductors. The largest application of these
systems is for microwave devices used in cellular telephones and other
high-speed wireless communications devices.

       For financial information about segments, including domestic and
international operations and export sales, see Note 3 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this report.

Sector Changes for 2003

       During the first quarter of 2003, we fine-tuned the make-up of our three
sectors. We have moved the compositional-metrology business (formerly in Optical
Technologies) and our elemental-analyzer business (formerly in Measurement and
Control) into the Life and Laboratory Sciences sector. These two businesses are
part of the newly created Scientific Instruments division, which also comprises
the former Spectroscopy and Analytical Instruments divisions. The new division
better aligns our businesses with the way customers work. Specifically, the Life
and Laboratory Sciences sector is now organized to provide all our sample
preparation, handling, and storage offerings through the Bioscience Technologies
division, all our analytical solutions through the Scientific Instruments
division, and our information-management offerings through the Informatics and
Services division. We continue to provide a full range of products and services
to the distinct clinical marketplace through the Clinical Diagnostics division.

       In addition, we have moved our ultrahigh-vacuum systems and semiconductor
testing businesses, formerly part of the Optical Technologies sector, into the
Measurement and Control sector's Temperature Control division. This brings
together all of our technologies for maintaining and monitoring precise
operating conditions in process environments. Our Optical Technologies sector
now comprises all of our lasers and photonics offerings, which we united under
the Spectra-Physics brand name.

       We believe this sector alignment will help us achieve greater efficiency
in our operations, increase market awareness of our product offerings in the
marketplace, and capture cross-selling opportunities that exist between the
formerly separate organizations. In addition, we believe this structure will
enable us to better develop and provide integrated end-to-end solutions based on
our customers' needs. These changes will be reflected in our financial reports
beginning in the first quarter of 2003.

Discontinued Operations

       As a result of our January 2000 reorganization plan, a number of
businesses have been accounted for as discontinued operations. Businesses in
this category included Kadant Inc., a supplier of systems to the papermaking and
paper recycling industry, as well as fiber-based consumer products; and Viasys
Healthcare Inc., a manufacturer of a range of medical products for diagnosis and
monitoring. Kadant was spun off to shareholders in August 2001 and Viasys was
spun off in November 2001. These businesses, together with a number of operating
units that were sold, constituted the company's former Energy and Environment,
Biomedical and Emerging Technologies, and Recycling and Resource Recovery
segments. At March 7, 2003, one operating unit with revenues of $31 million in
2002 remained for sale in discontinued operations.

<

>



New Products and Research and Development

       Our business includes the development and introduction of new products
and may include entry into new business sectors. We are not currently committed
to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our
assets, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would
require such an investment.

       During 2002, 2001, and 2000, we spent $155.1 million, $171.6 million, and
$176.8 million, respectively, on research and development.

Raw Materials

       Our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of
raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. We do
not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our
business.

Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

       Patents are important in each segment of our business; no particular
patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss
would significantly affect our operations as a whole. Generally, we seek patent
protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and
incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of
interest. Patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not
always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or
contracts.

       We protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where
appropriate, we use trademarks or register our products. We also enter into
license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and
know-how.

Seasonal Influences

       Revenues in the fourth calendar quarter are historically stronger than in
the other quarters due to capital spending patterns of industrial customers.

Working Capital Requirements

       There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to
customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital.

Dependency on a Single Customer

       There is no single customer the loss of which would have a material
adverse effect on our business. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our
total revenues in any of the past three years.

Backlog

       Our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2002 and 2001 was as follows:

<

>


<

>


<

>


                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
             INDEX OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE


<
                                      F-3

>


                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands except per share amounts)

<
                                      F-4

>


                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (In thousands)

<
                                      F-6

>


                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)





       The estimated future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets
is as follows (in thousands):






































<
                                      F-63

>




