
10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                       ----------------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
   (mark one)
   [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996

   [   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

   Delaware                                                         04-2209186
   (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

   81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
   Waltham, Massachusetts                                           02254-9046
   (Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (617) 622-1000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                                     on which registered
   -------------------                                     -------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 par value                       New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
   of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the
   filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [   ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   Registrant as of January 24, 1997, was approximately $5,267,295,000.

   As of January 24, 1997, the Registrant had 149,925,557 shares of Common
   Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
   Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
   ended December 28, 1996, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
   Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 3, 1997, are incorporated by
   reference into Part III.
PAGE

                                     PART I


    Item 1.  Business

    (a)  General Development of Business

         Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or the
    Registrant) develop, manufacture, and market environmental monitoring and
    analysis instruments; biomedical products including heart-assist devices,
    respiratory-care equipment, and mammography systems; paper-recycling and
    papermaking equipment; alternative-energy systems; industrial process
    equipment; and other specialized products. The Company also provides a
    range of services for the personal care, environmental, laboratory
    analysis, and metals-processing industries, and conducts advanced-
    technology research and development. The Company performs its business
    through divisions and wholly owned subsidiaries, as well as
    majority-owned subsidiaries that are partially owned by the public or by
    private investors.

         A key element in the Company's growth has been its ability to
    commercialize innovative products and services emanating from research
    and development activities conducted at the Company's various
    subsidiaries and divisions. The Company's strategy has been to identify
    business opportunities arising from social, economic, and regulatory
    issues, and to seek a leading market share through the application of
    proprietary technology. As part of this strategy, the Company continues
    to focus on the acquisition of complementary businesses that can be
    integrated into its existing core businesses to leverage access to new
    markets.

         The Company believes that maintaining an entrepreneurial atmosphere
    is essential to its continued growth and development. To preserve this
    atmosphere, the Company has adopted a strategy of spinning out certain of
    its businesses into separate subsidiaries and having these subsidiaries
    sell a minority interest to outside investors. The Company believes that
    this strategy provides additional motivation and incentives for the
    management of the subsidiaries through the establishment of subsidiary-
    level stock option incentive programs, as well as capital to support the
    subsidiaries' growth. The Company's wholly and majority-owned
    subsidiaries are provided with centralized corporate development,
    administrative, financial, and other services that would not be available
    to many independent companies of similar size. As of March 19, 1997, the
    Company had 22 subsidiaries that have sold minority equity interests, 19
    of which are publicly traded and three of which are privately held.

         The Company is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956.
    The Company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed
    on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980.

    Forward-looking Statements

         Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout this Annual Report
    on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are

                                        2PAGE

    not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking
    statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes,"
    "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "seeks," "estimates," and similar
    expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There
    are a number of important factors that could cause the results of the
    Company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking
    statements, including those detailed under the caption "Forward-looking
    Statements" in the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
    incorporated herein by reference.

    (b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

         The Company's products and services are divided into six segments:
    Instruments, Alternative-energy Systems, Process Equipment, Biomedical
    Products, Environmental Services, and Advanced Technologies. Products or
    services within a particular segment are provided by more than one
    subsidiary, and certain subsidiaries' products or services are included
    in more than one segment. The principal products and services offered by
    the Company in the six industry segments are described below. Financial
    information concerning the Company's industry segments is summarized in
    Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1996*
    Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

    (c)  Description of Business

         (i) Principal Products and Services

    Instruments

         The Company, through its Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary,
    is a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of
    instruments used to identify and analyze air pollution, radioactivity,
    complex chemical compounds, toxic metals, and other elements in a broad
    range of liquids, solids, and gases. Thermo Instrument also provides
    instruments that control, monitor, image, inspect, and measure various
    industrial processes and life sciences phenomena.

         Thermo Instrument historically has expanded both through the
    acquisition of companies and product lines and through the internal
    development of new products and technologies. During the past several
    years, Thermo Instrument has completed a number of complementary
    acquisitions that have provided additional technologies, specialized
    manufacturing or product development expertise, and broader capabilities
    in marketing and distribution.

         In March 1996, Thermo Instrument completed the acquisition of a
    substantial portion of the businesses comprising the Scientific
    Instruments Division of Fisons plc, (Fisons) a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc., for approximately 123.5 million British pounds
    sterling in cash (approximately $188.9 million) and the assumption of
    approximately 30.8 million British pounds sterling of indebtedness


    * References to 1996, 1995, and 1994 herein are for the fiscal years
      ended December 28, 1996, December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994,
      respectively.
                                        3PAGE

    (approximately $47.2 million). The purchase price is subject to a
    post-closing adjustment based on the net assets of the acquired
    businesses. The businesses acquired from Fisons substantially added to
    Thermo Instrument's research, development, manufacture, and sale of
    analytical instruments to industrial and research laboratories worldwide.
    Following the acquisition, certain of the Fisons businesses have been
    sold by Thermo Instrument to its public subsidiaries with complementary
    technologies and markets.

         On March 12, 1997, Thermo Instrument declared unconditional in all
    respects its cash tender offer for all outstanding shares of Life
    Sciences International PLC (Life Sciences) for 135 pence per share
    (approximately $2.16 per share). As of that date, Thermo Instrument had
    received acceptances representing approximately 91% of the Life Sciences
    shares outstanding and Thermo Instrument owned an additional 3% of the
    outstanding Life Sciences shares. There are approximately 175 million
    Life Sciences shares outstanding. Thermo Instrument has established March
    26, 1997, as the date for payment for all shares as to which acceptance
    has been received. In addition, Thermo Instrument expects to repay
    approximately $72 million of Life Sciences's debt, net of acquired cash
    expected to be used. Life Sciences, a London Stock Exchange-listed
    company, manufactures laboratory science equipment, appliances,
    instruments, consumables, and reagents for the research, clinical, and
    industrial markets.

         Thermo Instrument adopted the Company's spinout strategy in an
    effort to more clearly focus its many analytical technologies on specific
    niche markets. To date, Thermo Instrument has completed initial public
    offerings of ThermoSpectra Corporation, ThermoQuest Corporation, Thermo
    Optek Corporation, and Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation, and a private
    equity offering of Metrika Systems Corporation.

         ThermoSpectra develops, manufactures, and markets precision imaging,
    inspection, and measurement instrumentation based on high-speed data
    acquisition and digital-processing technologies to provide industrial and
    research customers with integrated systems that address their specific
    needs.

         ThermoQuest is a leading manufacturer of commercial mass
    spectrometers that identify and measure the components of a sample for
    organic or inorganic compounds in the pharmaceutical, environmental,
    chemical, and food and beverage industries, and in forensic sciences.
    ThermoQuest also produces high performance liquid chromatographs, gas
    chromatographs, and related equipment used principally in the research
    and development and production monitoring of pharmaceuticals and
    chemicals, and for environmental monitoring.

         Thermo Optek is a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture,
    and marketing of analytical instruments that use a range of optical
    spectroscopy and energy-based techniques. Thermo Optek's instruments are
    used in the quantitative and qualitative chemical analysis of elements
    and molecular compounds in a variety of solids, liquids, and gases.

         Thermo BioAnalysis develops, manufactures, and markets instruments
    and information management systems used in biochemical research and

                                        4PAGE

    production, as well as clinical diagnostics. Thermo BioAnalysis focuses
    on three principal product areas: life sciences instrumentation,
    information management systems, and health physics instrumentation.

         Metrika Systems manufactures process optimization systems that
    provide on-line, real-time analysis of the elemental composition of bulk
    raw materials in basic materials production processes, including coal,
    cement, and minerals. In addition, Metrika Systems manufactures
    industrial gauging and process control instruments and systems used
    principally by manufacturers of web-type materials, such as sheet metal,
    rubber, and plastic foils, to measure and control parameters such as
    thickness and coating weight of such materials.

         Thermo Instrument also has a number of wholly owned businesses that
    manufacture monitoring instruments for three principal markets: the
    detection and measurement of nuclear radiation; the monitoring of air
    pollutants including toxic and combustible gases; and process monitoring
    instruments and control systems for the oil, gas, and petrochemical
    industries.

    Alternative-energy Systems

         The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment includes the
    operation of independent (non-utility) power plants. This segment also
    includes the manufacture, sale, and servicing of industrial refrigeration
    systems; natural gas and marine engines; packaged cooling and
    cogeneration systems; and steam turbines and compressors.

         Through its Thermo Ecotek Corporation subsidiary, the Company
    designs, develops, owns, and operates independent (non-utility) electric
    power generation facilities that use environmentally responsible fuels
    including agricultural and wood wastes, referred to as "biomass." Thermo
    Ecotek currently operates seven biomass facilities. Its facilities are
    developed and operated through joint ventures or limited partnerships in
    which it has a majority interest, or through wholly owned subsidiaries.

         Thermo Ecotek intends to pursue development of power-generation
    projects both in the U.S. and overseas. In 1996, Thermo Ecotek formed a
    joint venture in Italy to develop, own, and operate biomass-fueled
    electric power facilities, and in January 1997, announced an agreement to
    jointly develop a 30-megawatt power project in the Czech Republic.

         Thermo Ecotek is expanding beyond biomass power generation into
    other products and processes that protect the environment. In August
    1995, Thermo Ecotek, through two wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into
    a Limited Partnership Agreement with KFx Wyoming, Inc., a subsidiary of
    KFx Inc. (in which Thermo Ecotek has a 17.8% interest), to develop,
    construct, and operate a coal-beneficiation plant in Gillette, Wyoming.
    The plant is expected to begin commercial operation later in 1997 and
    will employ patented "clean coal" technology to remove excess moisture
    and increase energy from subbituminous coal extracted from Wyoming's
    Powder River Basin.

         In May 1996, Thermo Ecotek acquired the assets, subject to certain
    liabilities, of the biopesticides division of W.R. Grace & Co. (renamed

                                        5PAGE

    Thermo Trilogy), which develops, manufactures, and markets
    environmentally friendly products for agricultural pest control. In
    January 1997, Thermo Trilogy acquired the assets of biosys, inc., a
    producer of pheromone, neem/azadiractin, nematodes, and virus-based
    biopesticide products, as well as disease-resistant sugar cane.

         The Company, through its Thermo Power Corporation subsidiary,
    manufactures, markets, and services industrial refrigeration equipment,
    natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary applications, marine
    engines, fork-lift engines, and commercial cooling and cogeneration
    units.

         Through its industrial refrigeration business, Thermo Power supplies
    standard and custom-designed industrial refrigeration systems used
    primarily by the food-processing, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical
    industries. Thermo Power's refrigeration packages can be designed for use
    with any common refrigerant, but approximately 80% of the units produced
    operate on ammonia, a cost-effective and environmentally safe substance
    compared with conventional refrigerants based on chlorofluorocarbons.
    Thermo Power is also a supplier of both remanufactured and new commercial
    cooling equipment for sale or rent.

         Thermo Power's engine segment develops, manufactures, markets, and
    services gasoline engines for recreational boats; propane and gasoline
    engines for lift trucks; and natural gas engines for fleet vehicles and
    stationary industrial applications, including cogeneration units, cooling
    and refrigeration systems, and compressor drives. Many of Thermo Power's
    products are powered by its low-emission TecoDrive(R) engines, which run
    solely on compressed natural gas (CNG). Through its privately held
    ThermoLyte Corporation subsidiary, Thermo Power is developing and
    commercializing a family of lighting products.

         The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment also includes a
    U.K.-based manufacturer of steam turbines and compressors.

    Process Equipment

         The Company designs, manufactures, and sells advanced, custom-
    engineered processing machinery; paper-recycling and papermaking
    equipment; and thermal-processing and electroplating systems.

         Through its Thermo Fibertek Inc. subsidiary, the Company designs and
    manufactures processing machinery, accessories, and water-management
    systems for the paper and paper-recycling industries. Thermo Fibertek's
    custom-engineered systems remove debris, impurities, and ink from
    wastepaper, and process it into a fiber mix used to produce recycled
    paper. Thermo Fibertek's principal products include custom-engineered
    systems and equipment for the preparation of wastepaper for conversion
    into recycled paper, accessory equipment and related consumables
    important to the efficient operation of papermaking machines, and
    water-management systems essential for draining, purifying, and recycling
    process water.

         A wholly owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a $145 million
    contract in December 1994 for engineering, procurement, and construction

                                        6PAGE

    services for an office wastepaper de-inking facility located in
    Menominee, Michigan. Thermo Fibertek supplied more than $16 million of
    equipment and services under the contract over a two-year period.
    Construction of the project was completed in 1996, with startup testing
    currently under way.

         In September 1996, Thermo Fibergen Inc. became a majority-owned
    public subsidiary of Thermo Fibertek. Thermo Fibergen's principal
    business consists of conducting research and development to commercialize
    equipment and systems for recovering materials from papermaking sludge
    generated by plants that produce virgin and recycled pulp and paper.
    Thermo Fibergen's GranTek Inc. subsidiary uses a patented process to
    convert papermaking sludge into granules that are used as carriers for
    agricultural chemicals.

         In February 1997, Thermo Fibertek entered into a letter of intent to
    acquire the assets, subject to certain liabilities, of the
    stock-preparation business of The Black Clawson Company (Black Clawson)
    for approximately $110 million in cash. Black Clawson is a leading
    supplier of recycling equipment used in processing fiber for the
    manufacture of "brown paper," such as that used for corrugated boxes. The
    transaction is subject to various conditions of closing.

         Through a wholly owned subsidiary, the Company also manufactures
    electroplating systems and related waste-treatment equipment and
    accessories, as well as aqueous systems for cleaning metal parts without
    using ozone-damaging solvents.

    Biomedical Products

         The Company's Biomedical Products segment comprises a number of
    diverse medical products businesses, both wholly and publicly owned. Its
    wholly owned Thermo Biomedical group made two acquisitions in 1996:
    SensorMedics Corporation, a leading provider of systems for pulmonary
    function diagnosis and a producer of respiratory gas analyzers,
    physiological testing equipment, and automated sleep analysis systems;
    and Medical Data Electronics, a manufacturer of patient-monitoring
    systems.

         Also part of the Company's Thermo Biomedical group is International
    Technidyne Corporation, a leading manufacturer of hemostasis management
    products, including blood coagulation-monitoring instruments, and a
    producer of skin-incision devices that can draw minute but medically
    significant blood samples through precisely controlled incisions.

         Nicolet Biomedical Inc., wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is
    a leading manufacturer of biomedical instruments for assessing muscle,
    nerve, sleep, hearing, and brain blood-flow disorders, various neurologic
    disorders, and for related work in clinical neurophysiology. These
    instruments are used in hospitals, clinics, universities, private-
    practice medical offices, and medical research facilities.

         Another wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, Bird Medical
    Technologies, Inc. develops, manufactures, and sells respiratory care
    equipment and accessories and infection-control products to hospitals,

                                        7PAGE

    subacute care facilities, outpatient surgical centers, doctors, dentists,
    the military, as well as other manufactures.

         Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermedics Inc.,
    has developed an implantable left ventricular-assist system (LVAS) called
    HeartMate(TM) that, when implanted alongside the natural heart, is
    designed to take over the pumping function of the left ventricle for
    patients whose hearts are too damaged or diseased to beat adequately on
    their own. Thermo Cardiosystems has two versions of the LVAS: a pneumatic
    (or air driven) system that can be controlled by either a bedside console
    or portable unit, and an electric system that features an internal
    electric motor powered by an external battery-pack worn by the patient.

         In April 1994, Thermo Cardiosystems received the European Conformity
    Mark (CE Mark) for commercial sale of the air-driven LVAS in all European
    Community countries. In October 1994, the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) granted approval for commercial sale of the
    air-driven LVAS in the United States. The electric version of the LVAS,
    which received the CE Mark in August 1995, is currently being used in
    clinical trials in the U.S. for patients awaiting heart transplants and
    may not be sold commercially in this country until it has received FDA
    approval. In December 1995, the FDA approved the protocol for conducting
    clinical trials using Thermo Cardiosystems' electric LVAS as an
    alternative to medical therapy. In December 1996, the Company began
    actively working with the FDA on the premarket approval application for
    commercial approval of the electric LVAS used as a bridge to transplant.
    In Europe, the device is used both as a bridge to transplant and as an
    alternative to heart transplants.

         In December 1996, Thermo Cardiosystems acquired the business of
    Nimbus Medical, Inc., a research and development organization involved
    for more than 20 years in ventricular-assist device and total
    artificial-heart technology, including high-speed rotary blood pumps,
    which are relatively small and could potentially provide cardiac support
    in small adults and children.

         Trex Medical Corporation, a public subsidiary of ThermoTrex
    Corporation, designs, manufactures, and markets a range of medical
    imaging systems. It is the world's leading manufacturer of mammography
    equipment and minimally invasive stereotactic breast-biopsy systems. Trex
    Medical also manufactures general-purpose and specialty radiographic
    systems. In 1996, Trex Medical significantly expanded its product lines
    through the acquisition of two businesses. XRE Corporation, acquired in
    May, designs, manufactures, and markets specialized X-ray systems used in
    the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery disease and other vascular
    conditions. Continental X-Ray Corporation, acquired in September,
    produces a broad line of general-purpose and specialty X-ray systems,
    including radiographic/fluoroscopic systems used in hospitals to diagnose
    gastrointestinal disorders, and electrophysiology products that aid
    doctors in diagnosing cardiac arrhythmia.

         Trex Medical has developed a full-view digital imaging system that
    is currently in clinical trials, and plans to submit a 510(k) application
    to the FDA in 1997 to gain clearance to market this system commercially.
    The advantage of digital imaging is that the radiologist can manipulate

                                        8PAGE

    and enhance the image quality to scrutinize subtle differences that may
    go undetected on film-based X-rays. After introducing the digital imaging
    system for mammography applications, the most technically challenging
    imaging modality, Trex Medical plans to develop its flat-panel digital
    technology for use in other of its products.

         ThermoLase Corporation, a public subsidiary of ThermoTrex, operates
    a national network of Spa Thira salons that offer its patented
    SoftLight(TM) hair-removal system, for which it received FDA clearance in
    April 1995. The SoftLight system uses a low-energy, dermatology laser in
    combination with a lotion to remove hair. ThermoLase currently has 10
    spas open in the U.S., with two additional spas in development.
    ThermoLase also plans to submit a 510(k) application in 1997 for its
    laser-based skin-rejuvenation system, based on data from its clinical
    trials.

         In January 1996, ThermoLase formed a joint venture to market the
    SoftLight process in Japan for both hair removal and skin-rejuvenation,
    if and when available. In November, ThermoLase entered into a license
    agreement with a medical supply and service company in Saudi Arabia, to
    market its hair-removal process in that country. A joint venture was also
    established with a leading provider of premium hair- and skin-care
    services in France in November 1996.

         To complement its Spa Thira salons, ThermoLase has commenced a
    program to license the SoftLight hair-removal process to qualified
    service providers for use in their practices.

         ThermoLase also manufactures and markets skin-care, bath, and body
    products sold through department stores, salons, and spas, including the
    lotion that is an integral part of the SoftLight hair-removal system.

    Environmental Services

         Through its Thermo TerraTech Inc. subsidiary, the Company provides
    environmental and infrastructure planning and design services, with
    specialization in the areas of municipal and industrial water quality
    management, bridge and highway construction and reconstruction, and
    natural resource management. Thermo TerraTech also offers comprehensive
    environmental testing and analysis through a national network of
    laboratories serving the environmental, food, and pharmaceutical
    industries.

         Thermo Remediation Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech,
    provides services for the recycling of industrial fuel waste, and offers
    nuclear remediation and health physics services at radioactively
    contaminated sites. Thermo Remediation also operates centers that
    thermally treat soil to remove and destroy petroleum contamination from
    industrial sites and from former manufactured-gas plants, refineries, and
    other sources. Thermo Remediation also offers other remedial solutions,
    depending on the location, type, and extent of contamination, including
    bioremediation and the application of risk-based corrective actions.

         A majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech, Thermo EuroTech
    N.V., provides wastewater treatment services and specializes in

                                        9PAGE

    converting "off-spec" and contaminated petroleum fluids into usable oil
    products.

         In addition, metallurgical heat-treating services are provided for
    customers in the automotive, aerospace, defense, and other industries.
    The Company also provides metallurgical fabrication services, principally
    on high-temperature materials, for customers in the aerospace, medical,
    electronics, and nuclear industries.

    Advanced Technologies

         ThermoTrex conducts sponsored research and development and is
    attempting to commercialize new products based on advanced technologies
    developed in its laboratories. Sponsored research and development,
    conducted principally for the U.S. government, includes basic and applied
    research in communication, avionics, X-ray detection, signal processing,
    advanced-materials technology, and lasers.

         ThermoTrex is currently developing a number of technologies that it
    believes have future commercial potential. These include a laser
    communication system called lasercom, intended to help alleviate capacity
    constraints on existing communication systems; a passive microwave camera
    intended to "see" through clouds and fog to enhance safety in aerial
    navigation; and direct digital imaging systems for medical equipment to
    improve image quality for more accurate clinical diagnoses.

         Through a public subsidiary of Thermedics, Thermo Sentron Inc., the
    Company designs and manufactures high-speed precision-weighing and
    inspection equipment for packaging lines and industrial production.
    Thermo Sentron serves two principal markets, packaged goods and bulk
    materials, both of which use its products to meet quality and
    productivity objectives. Customers for Thermo Sentron's checkweighers are
    in the food-processing, pharmaceutical, mail-order, and other
    packaged-goods businesses. Thermo Sentron also sells metal detectors with
    a patented self-test feature, used to inspect packaged products for metal
    contamination, to food-processing and pharmaceutical companies. Its
    bulk-materials product line includes conveyor-belt scales, solid
    level-measurement and conveyor-monitoring systems, and sampling systems,
    all sold to customers in the mining and material-processing industries,
    as well as to electric utilities, chemical, and other manufacturing
    companies.

         Thermedics manufactures electrode-based chemical-measurement
    products used in the agriculture, biomedical research, food processing,
    pharmaceutical, sewage treatment, and many other industries. In
    laboratories, manufacturing plants, and in the field, Thermedics'
    products permit these industries to determine the presence and amount of
    relevant chemicals. Thermedics also manufactures on-line process monitors
    used by power plants and semiconductor manufacturers to detect
    contaminants in high-purity water.

         Thermedics Detection Inc., a public subsidiary of Thermedics,
    manufactures quality-assurance and explosives-detection products. Much of
    its technology involves rapid contents analysis. Thermedics Detection
    provides high-speed X-ray imaging systems that monitor liquid fill-level

                                       10PAGE

    and other container characteristics for the beverage and other industries
    that assure the quality of refillable plastic containers that are
    principally used outside the United States. Moisture Systems Corporation
    and Rutter & Co., B.V., acquired by Thermedics Detection in January 1996,
    design, manufacture, and sell instruments that use near-infrared
    spectroscopy to measure moisture and other product components, including
    fat, protein, solvents, and other substances in numerous consumer and
    industrial products. Thermedics Detection also recently introduced an
    ultra-high-speed gas chromatograph that permits manufacturers to conduct
    laboratory-quality analysis for near on-line process-control
    applications.

         Thermedics Detection incorporates trace-detection technologies in
    products that screen baggage, people, and electronic equipment for the
    presence of a range of explosives. Its explosives detectors are in place
    at airports and border crossings and in forensics investigations, such as
    the attempt to identify the cause of the crash of TWA Flight 800.
    Thermedics Detection also has developed a lower-cost product designed for
    use in conjunction with its trace explosives detectors, and an automated
    system that can detect traces of explosives on people.

         Thermo Voltek Corp., a public subsidiary of Thermedics, designs,
    manufactures, and markets electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing
    instruments that simulate pulsed electromagnetic interference, radio
    frequency interference, and changes in AC voltage, to allow manufacturers
    of electronic systems and integrated circuits to test for resistance to
    those conditions. Thermo Voltek also manufactures high-voltage
    power-conversion systems and programmable power amplifiers, provides EMC
    consulting and systems-integration services, and distributes EMC-related
    products.

         The Company's wholly owned Coleman Research Corporation subsidiary
    provides systems integration, systems engineering, and analytical
    services to government and commercial customers in fields of information
    technology, software engineering, energy, the environment, launch
    systems, advanced radar and imaging, and health systems.

    Publicly and Privately Held Subsidiaries
         In 1983, the Company adopted a strategy of having certain
    subsidiaries sell a minority interest in a public or private offering to
    outside investors. An important goal of this strategy is to provide the
    entrepreneurial atmosphere and focused performance incentives of a
    separate business. As of March 19, 1997, the Company had 22 subsidiaries
    that have sold minority equity interests, 19 of which are publicly traded
    and three of which are privately held.

    Thermedics Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets product quality
    assurance systems, precision weighing and inspection equipment,
    explosives-detection devices, microweighing and electrochemistry
    instruments, as well as biomaterials and other biomedical products.
    Thermedics' products are included in the Biomedical Products and Advanced
    Technologies segments.

                                       11PAGE

         Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of
         Thermedics, develops, manufactures, and markets implantable left
         ventricular-assist systems and develops artificial hearts. Thermo
         Cardiosystems' products are included in the Biomedical Products
         segment.

         Thermo Voltek Corp., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
         designs, manufactures, and markets electromagnetic compatibility
         (EMC) testing instruments, high-voltage power-conversion systems,
         and programmable power amplifiers; provides EMC consulting and
         systems-integration services; and distributes EMC-related products.
         Thermo Voltek's products and services are included in the Advanced
         Technologies segment.

         Thermo Sentron Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
         develops, manufactures, and markets high-speed precision-weighing
         and inspection equipment for producers of bulk materials and for
         packaging lines in the food-processing, pharmaceutical, mail-order,
         and other diverse industries. Thermo Sentron's products are included
         in the Advanced Technologies segment.

         Thermedics Detection Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of
         Thermedics, develops, manufactures, and markets high-speed detection
         and measurement products used for product quality assurance,
         explosives detection, and laboratory analysis. Thermedics
         Detection's products are included in the Advanced Technologies
         segment.

    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets
    analytical instruments used to identify complex chemical compounds, toxic
    metals, and other elements in a broad range of liquids and solids, as
    well instruments used to monitor radioactivity and air pollution, and to
    control, image, inspect, and measure various industrial processes and
    life sciences phenomena. Thermo Instrument's products represent the
    Company's Instruments segment.

         ThermoSpectra Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
         Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets precision imaging,
         inspection, and measurement instrumentation based on high-speed data
         acquisition and digital-processing technologies.

         ThermoQuest Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
         Instrument, develops, manufactures, and sells mass spectrometers,
         liquid chromatographs, and gas chromatographs for the
         pharmaceutical, environmental, and industrial markets.

         Thermo Optek Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
         Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets optical and
         energy-based analytical instruments used in the quantitative and
         qualitative chemical analysis of elements and molecular compounds in
         solids, liquids, and gases. In addition, through its wholly owned
         Thermo Vision Corporation subsidiary, Thermo Optek addresses the
         photonics marketplace for optical components, imaging systems,
         analytical instruments, and lasers.

                                       12PAGE

         Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of
         Thermo Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets instruments
         and information management systems used in biochemical research and
         production, as well as clinical diagnostics and health physics.

         Metrika Systems Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held
         subsidiary of Thermo Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets
         systems to optimize on-line industrial processes, such as the
         production of raw materials and web-type materials, by employing
         proprietary, ultra-high speed measurement and analysis technologies.

    Thermo TerraTech Inc. provides environmental services and infrastructure
    planning and design encompassing a range of specializations within
    consulting and design, soil and water remediation, and laboratory
    testing. Thermo TerraTech also provides metal-treating services. Thermo
    TerraTech's products and services are included in the Environmental
    Services and Process Equipment segments.

         Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
         TerraTech, provides environmental services including industrial
         remediation, nuclear remediation, hazardous waste remedial cleanup,
         soil remediation, and waste fluids recycling. Thermo Remediation's
         services are included in the Environmental Services segment.

         Thermo EuroTech N.V., a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of
         Thermo TerraTech, provides environmental services in The
         Netherlands, including recycling waste oils and refinery and
         drilling wastes. Thermo EuroTech's services are included in the
         Environmental Services segment.

    Thermo Power Corporation manufactures, markets, and services industrial
    refrigeration equipment, natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary
    applications, natural gas-fueled cooling and cogeneration systems,
    lift-truck engines, and marine engines. Thermo Power also conducts
    sponsored research and development on advanced systems for clean
    combustion and high-efficiency gas-fueled devices. Thermo Power's
    products are included in the Alternative-energy Systems segment.

         ThermoLyte Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary
         of Thermo Power, is developing a line of propane-powered lighting
         products.

    ThermoTrex Corporation manufactures and markets medical imaging
    equipment, has developed a laser-based system for the removal of unwanted
    hair, and develops advanced technologies that are being developed for
    potential incorporation into commercial products for the medical imaging,
    personal-care, avionics, and communications industries. ThermoTrex's
    products are included in the Company's Biomedical Products and Advanced
    Technologies segments.

         ThermoLase Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex,
         offers laser-based hair-removal services and manufactures skin-care
         and other personal-care products sold through department stores,
         salons, and spas. ThermoLase's products and services are included in
         the Biomedical Products segment.

                                       13PAGE

         Trex Medical Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex,
         designs, manufactures, and markets mammography equipment and
         minimally invasive stereotactic breast-biopsy systems used for the
         detection of breast cancer, as well as general-purpose X-ray systems
         and interventional X-ray imaging equipment. Trex Medical's products
         are included in the Biomedical Products segment.

    Thermo Fibertek Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets a range of
    equipment and accessory products for the domestic and international paper
    and paper-recycling industry, including de-inking and stock-preparation
    equipment and water-management systems. Thermo Fibertek's products are
    included in the Process Equipment segment.

         Thermo Fibergen Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
         Fibertek, is developing and commercializing equipment and systems to
         recover materials from pulp reside, or sludge, generated by paper
         and pulp mills. Thermo Fibergen also produces granules from
         papermaking sludge that are sold as carriers for agricultural
         chemicals.

    Thermo Ecotek Corporation develops and operates independent (non-utility)
    power plants that use clean combustion technology and alternative-energy
    sources, such as agricultural waste. The Company is also involved in
    engineered clean-coal production, as well as the development and
    production of botanical-based biopesticides for the agricultural
    industry. Thermo Ecotek's operations are included in the Alternative-
    energy Systems segment.

         (ii) New Products

         The Company's business includes the development and introduction of
    new products and may include entry into new business segments. The
    Company has made no commitments to new products that require the
    investment of a material amount of the Company's assets, nor does it have
    any definitive plans to enter new business segments that would require
    such an investment (see Section (xi) "Research and Development").

         (iii) Raw Materials

         Certain raw materials used in the manufacturer of Thermo
    Cardiosystem's LVAS are available from only one or two suppliers. Thermo
    Cardiosystems is making efforts to minimize the risks associated with
    sole sources and ensure long-term availability, including qualifying
    alternative materials or developing alternative sources for materials and
    components supplied by a single source. Although the Company believes
    that it has adequate supplies of materials and components to meet demand
    for the LVAS for the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given that
    the Company will not experience shortages of certain materials or
    components in the future that could cause delays in the Thermo
    Cardiosystems' LVAS development program or adversely affect Thermo
    Cardiosystems' ability to manufacture and ship LVAS to meet demand.

         Except as described above, in the opinion of management, the Company
    has a readily available supply of raw materials for all of its

                                       14PAGE

    significant products from various sources and does not anticipate any
    difficulties in obtaining the raw materials essential to its business.

         (iv) Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

         The Company considers patents to be important in the present
    operation of its business; however, the Company does not consider any
    patent, or related group of patents, to be of such importance that its
    expiration or termination would materially affect the Company's business
    taken as a whole. The Company seeks patent protection for inventions and
    developments made by its personnel and incorporated into its products or
    otherwise falling within its fields of interest. Patent rights resulting
    from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively
    to the Company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.

         The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and,
    where appropriate, uses trademarks or registers its products. It also
    enters into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights
    to patents and know-how.

         (v) Seasonal Influences

         Thermo Ecotek earns a disproportionately high share of its income in
    the months of May through October due to the rate structures under the
    power sales agreements relating to its California plants, which provide
    strong incentives to operate during this period of high demand.
    Conversely, Thermo Ecotek historically has operated at a marginal profit
    during the first quarter due to the rate structure under these
    agreements.

         While Thermo TerraTech conducts significant operations year-round,
    the majority of its businesses experience seasonal fluctuations due to
    adverse weather during winter months. Such seasonal influences may have a
    material effect on its revenues. A number of Thermo TerraTech's
    operations were affected by adverse weather during the first quarter of
    1996.

         There are no other material seasonal influences on the Company's
    sales of products and services.

         (vi) Working Capital Requirements

         There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended
    to customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
    working capital.

         (vii) Dependency on a Single Customer

         No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's
    total revenues in any of the past three years. The Advanced Technologies
    segment derived approximately 16%, 27%, and 13% of its revenues in 1996,
    1995, and 1994, respectively, from contracts with various agencies of the
    U.S. government and approximately 23% of its revenues in 1994 from one
    customer for a process-detection instrument. In connection with the
    development of power plants, Thermo Ecotek typically enters into

                                       15PAGE

    long-term power supply contracts with a single customer for the sale of
    power generated by each plant. The Alternative-energy Systems segment
    derived 16% of its revenues in 1996, 1995, and 1994, from Pacific Gas &
    Electric and 16%, 15%, and 19% of its revenues in 1996, 1995, and 1994,
    respectively, from Southern California Edison.

         (viii) Backlog

         The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1996 and 1995 was
    as follows:

    (In thousands)                                           1996        1995
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Instruments                                          $266,600    $188,700
    Alternative-energy Systems                            118,500     112,900
    Process Equipment                                      52,300     114,800
    Biomedical Products                                   107,700      87,800
    Environmental Services                                118,200      76,500
    Advanced Technologies                                 148,600     117,200
                                                         --------    --------
                                                         $811,900    $697,900
                                                         ========    ========

         The Process Equipment segment backlog in 1995 includes $54 million
    for the design and construction of an office wastepaper de-inking
    facility completed in 1996.

         Backlog includes the uncompleted portion of research and development
    contracts and the uncompleted portion of certain equipment contracts that
    are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method. The Company
    believes approximately 95% of the 1996 backlog will be filled during
    1997.

         (ix) Government Contracts

         Approximately 5% of the Company's total revenues in 1996 were
    derived from contracts or subcontracts with the federal government, which
    are subject to renegotiation of profits or termination. The Company does
    not have any knowledge of threatened or pending renegotiation or
    termination of any material contract or subcontract.

         (x) Competition

         The Company is engaged in many highly competitive industries. The
    nature of the competition in each of the Company's markets is described
    below:

    Instruments

         The Company is among the principal manufacturers of analytical
    instrumentation. Within the markets for the Company's analytical
    instrument products, the Company competes with several large corporations
    with broad product offerings, such as Hewlett-Packard Co., Perkin-Elmer
    Corp., Varian Associates, Inc., and Hitachi, Ltd., and numerous smaller
    companies that address only particular segments of the industry or

                                       16PAGE

    specific geographic areas. The Company's instruments business generally
    competes on the basis of technical advances that result in new products
    and improved price/performance ratios, reputation among customers as a
    quality leader for products and services, and active research and
    application-development programs. To a lesser extent, the Company
    competes on the basis of price.

    Alternative-energy Systems

         The worldwide independent power market consists of numerous
    companies, ranging from small startups to multinational industrial
    companies. In addition, a number of regulated utilities have created
    subsidiaries that compete as non-utility generators. Non-utility
    generators often specialize in market "niches," such as a specific
    technology or fuel (for example, gas-fired cogeneration,
    refuse-to-energy, hydropower, geothermal, wind, solar, wood, or coal) or
    a specific region of the country where they believe they have a market
    advantage. However, many non-utility generators, including the Company,
    seek to develop projects on a best-available-fuel basis. The Company
    competes primarily on the basis of project experience, technical
    expertise, capital resources, and power pricing.

         The Company's sale of industrial refrigeration systems is subject to
    intense competition. The industrial refrigeration market is mature,
    highly fragmented, and extremely dependent on close customer contacts.
    Major industrial refrigeration companies, of which the Company is one,
    account for approximately one-half of worldwide sales, with the balance
    generated by many smaller companies. The Company competes principally on
    the basis of its advanced control systems and overall quality,
    reliability, service, and price. The Company believes it is a leader in
    remanufactured refrigeration equipment. The Company competes in this
    market based on price, delivery time, and customized equipment.

         The Company's sale of packaged cogeneration systems is subject to
    intense competition, both direct and indirect. Direct competitors consist
    of companies that sell cogeneration products resembling those sold by the
    Company as well as electric utilities' pricing programs. Indirect
    competitors include manufacturers of conventional heating and cooling
    systems.

         Competition in the market for natural gas engines for vehicles is
    intense. Current and potential competitors include major automotive and
    natural gas companies and other companies that have substantially greater
    financial resources than those of the Company.

         The Company has experienced intense competition in the marine engine
    business in recent years as some of its former customers have been
    acquired by competitors following the vertical integration of the boating
    industry. Competition is primarily on the basis of quality, reliability,
    and service.

    Process Equipment

         The Company faces significant competition in the markets for paper-
    recycling and water handling equipment and papermachine accessories, and

                                       17PAGE

    competes in these markets primarily on the basis of quality, service,
    technical expertise, and product innovation. The Company is a leading
    supplier of de-inking systems for paper recycling and accessory equipment
    for papermaking machines, and competes in these markets primarily on the
    basis of service, technical expertise, and performance.

         The market for thermal-processing systems is subject to intense
    competition worldwide. The Company is aware of at least eight companies
    that market a number of products comparable to the Company's, but
    competition for particular projects is typically limited to fewer
    companies. The Company competes on the basis of several factors,
    including technical performance, product quality and reliability, timely
    delivery, and price.

    Biomedical Products

         Competition in the markets for most of the Company's biomedical
    products, including those manufactured by Thermo Cardiosystems,
    ThermoTrex, International Technidyne, Nicolet Biomedical, Bird Medical
    Technologies, SensorMedics, and Medical Data Electronics, is based to a
    large extent upon technical performance.

         The Company is aware of one other company that has submitted a PMA
    application with the FDA for an implantable LVAS that would compete with
    Thermo Cardiosystems' LVAS. The Company is unaware whether this PMA
    application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. Also, the Company is
    aware of one other company that has received approval by the FDA Advisory
    Panel on Circulatory System Devices and subsequent commercial approval
    for its cardiac-assist device. This is an external device that is
    positioned on the outside of the patient's chest and is intended for
    short-term use in the hospital environment. The Company is also aware
    that a total artificial heart is currently undergoing clinical trials.
    The requirement of obtaining FDA approval for commercial sale of an LVAS
    is a significant barrier to entry into the U.S. market for these devices.
    There can be no assurance, however, that FDA regulations will not change
    in the future, reducing the time and testing required for others to
    obtain FDA approval. In addition, other research groups and companies are
    developing cardiac-assist systems using alternative technologies or
    concepts, one or more of which might prove functionally equivalent to or
    more suitable than the Company's systems. Among products that have been
    approved for commercial sale, the Company competes primarily on the basis
    of performance, service capability, reimbursement status, and price.

         The Company is one of a number of competitors in the markets for
    mammography and general radiographic systems and is one of two
    competitors in the market for stereotactic breast-biopsy systems. The
    Company competes in these markets primarily on the basis of product
    features, product performance, and reputation, as well as price and
    service. The markets in which the Company competes with these products
    are characterized by rapid technological change. The Company believes
    that in order for it to be competitive in these markets it will be
    important for it to continue to be technologically innovative.

         The Company's SoftLight laser hair-removal system competes with
    other laser-based systems, electrolysis, and other hair-removal products.

                                       18PAGE

    In March 1997, Laser Industries Ltd., Mehl/Biophile International Corp.,
    and Palomar Medical Technologies Inc. each announced that it had received
    clearance from the FDA to market its laser-based system for the removal
    of unwanted facial and body hair. The laser-based hair-removal market is
    characterized by rapid technological change and the Company believes that
    it must continue to be technologically innovative in order to compete in
    this market. In addition, the SoftLight system will compete with
    electrolysis providers, many of whom are small practitioners with
    well-established networks of client relationships. Finally, the SoftLight
    system competes with razors, hot wax, and other hair-removal products.

    Environmental Services

         The Company competes in the market for soil-remediation services
    based on its ability to offer customers superior protection from
    environmental liabilities. However, with relaxed regulatory standards in
    many states, the Company faces intense competition in local markets from
    landfills, other treatment technologies, and from companies competing
    with similar technologies, limiting the volume of soil to be treated and
    the prices that can be charged by the Company. Pricing is therefore a
    major competitive factor for the Company.

         The Company's metallurgical services business competes in specialty
    machining services. Competition is based principally on services
    provided, turnaround time, and price.

         Hundreds of independent analytical testing laboratories and
    consulting firms compete for environmental services business nationwide.
    Many of these firms use equipment and processes similar to those of the
    Company. Competition is based not only on price, but also on reputation
    for accuracy, quality, and the ability to respond rapidly to customer
    requirements. In addition, many industrial companies have their own
    in-house analytical testing capabilities. The Company believes that its
    competitive strength lies in certain niche markets within which the
    Company is recognized for its expertise.

    Advanced Technologies

         In its contract research and development business, the Company not
    only competes with other companies and institutions that perform similar
    services, but must also rely on the ability of government agencies and
    other clients to obtain allocations of research and development monies to
    fund contracts with the Company. The Company competes for research and
    development programs principally on the basis of technical innovations.
    As government funding becomes more scarce, particularly for defense
    projects, the competition for such funding will become more intense. In
    addition, as the Company's programs move from the development stage to
    commercialization, competition is expected to intensify.

         Thermedics' electrode-based chemical-measurement products compete
    with several international companies. In the markets for these products,
    Thermedics competes on the basis of performance, service, technology, and
    price.

                                       19PAGE

         Thermo Sentron competes with several international and regional
    companies in the market for its products. Thermo Sentron's competitors in
    the packaged goods market differ from those in the bulk materials market.
    The principal competitive factors in both markets are customer service
    and support, quality, reliability, and price.

         Thermedics Detection's product quality assurance systems compete
    with chemical-detection systems manufactured by several companies and
    with other technologies and processes for product quality assurance.
    Competition in the markets for all of the Company's detection products is
    based primarily on performance, service, and price.

         There are a number of competitors in the market for instruments that
    detect explosives, including makers of other chemical-detection
    instruments as well as enhanced X-ray detectors. The Company expects that
    the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will purchase trace detection
    systems as part of the initial deployment of explosives-detection systems
    in the United States. The Company believes that companies, if any, whose
    devices are ultimately required by the FAA will have a substantial
    competitive advantage in the United States.

         Thermo Voltek is a leading supplier of pulsed electromagnetic
    interference testing equipment. The Company competes in this market
    primarily on the basis of performance, technical expertise, reputation,
    and price. In the market for power amplifiers, Thermo Voltek competes
    with several companies worldwide primarily on the basis of technical
    expertise, reputation, and price.

         (xi) Research and Development

         During 1996, 1995, and 1994, the Company expended $299,271,000,
    $269,329,000, and $229,200,000, respectively, on research and
    development. Of these amounts, $144,823,000, $167,120,000, and
    $149,645,000, respectively, were sponsored by customers and $154,448,000,
    $102,209,000, and $79,555,000, respectively, were Company-sponsored.

         (xii) Environmental Protection Regulations

         The Company believes that compliance with federal, state, and local
    environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse
    effect on its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

         (xiii) Number of Employees

         At December 28, 1996, the Company employed approximately 17,760
    persons.

    (d)  Financial Information about Exports by Domestic Operations and about
         Foreign Operations

         Financial information about exports by domestic operations and about
    foreign operations is summarized in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

                                       20PAGE

    (e)  Executive Officers of the Registrant

                                     Present Title (Year First
    Name                       Age   Became Executive Officer)
    ------------------------   ---   --------------------------------------
    George N. Hatsopoulos(1)    70   Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
                                       Officer, and Director (1956)
    John N. Hatsopoulos(1)      62   President and Chief Financial Officer
                                       (1968)
    Peter G. Pantazelos         66   Executive Vice President (1968)
    Arvin H. Smith              67   Executive Vice President (1983)
    William A. Rainville        55   Senior Vice President (1993)
    John W. Wood Jr.            53   Senior Vice President (1995)
    Paul F. Kelleher            54   Vice President, Finance and
                                       Administration (1982)

    (1) George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos are brothers.

         Each executive officer serves until his successor is chosen or
    appointed and qualified or until earlier resignation, death, or removal.
    All executive officers, except Messrs. John Hatsopoulos, Rainville, and
    Wood, have held comparable positions with the Company for at least the
    last five years. Mr. John Hatsopoulos has been President of the Company
    since January 1997 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1988.
    Mr. Rainville has been a Senior Vice President of the Company since 1993
    and was a Vice President of the Company from 1986 to 1993. Mr. Wood has
    been President and Chief Executive Officer of Thermedics Inc. since 1984
    and was a Vice President of the Company from 1994 to 1995, prior to
    becoming a Senior Vice President of the Company in 1995.


    Item 2.  Properties

         The location and general character of the Company's principal
    properties by industry segment as of December 28, 1996, are as follows:

    Instruments

         The Company owns approximately 1,973,000 square feet of office,
    engineering, laboratory, and production space, principally in California,
    Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, Texas, Wisconsin, England, and Germany,
    and leases approximately 2,281,000 square feet of office, engineering,
    laboratory, and production space principally in California, Connecticut,
    Massachusetts, Ohio, Texas, Wisconsin, and England, under leases expiring
    from 1997 to 2017.

    Alternative-energy Systems

         The Company owns approximately 371,000 square feet of office,
    engineering, and production space, principally in Pennsylvania, England,
    and Massachusetts, and leases approximately 392,000 square feet of
    office, engineering, laboratory, and production space principally in
    Illinois, Michigan, and England, under leases expiring from 1997 to 2006.

                                       21PAGE

         The Company operates four independent power plants in California,
    Maine, and New Hampshire, under leases expiring from 2000 to 2010. The
    Company owns three independent power plants in New Hampshire and
    California and a coal-beneficiation plant in Wyoming.

    Process Equipment

         The Company owns approximately 1,105,000 square feet of office,
    laboratory, and production space, principally in France, Connecticut,
    Massachusetts, and New York, and leases approximately 325,000 square feet
    of office, engineering, and production space principally in Wisconsin and
    Michigan, under leases expiring from 1997 to 2004.

    Biomedical Products

         The Company owns approximately 412,000 square feet of office and
    production space in Illinois, California, Connecticut, and New Jersey,
    and leases approximately 1,068,000 square feet of office, engineering,
    laboratory, and production space in Texas, Massachusetts, California, New
    York, Connecticut, and Illinois, under leases expiring from 1997 to 2012.

    Environmental Services

         The Company owns approximately 840,000 square feet of office,
    laboratory, and production space, principally in California, The
    Netherlands, Pennsylvania, and Minnesota, and leases approximately
    550,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production
    space principally in California, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New
    Hampshire, and New York, under leases expiring from 1997 to 2008.

         The Company owns approximately 96 acres of land from which it
    provides soil-remediation services principally in Maryland, South
    Carolina, and California, and leases approximately 29 acres of land from
    which it provides soil-remediation and fluid-recycling services in
    principally New York, Arizona, Washington, and Virginia, under leases
    expiring from 1997 to 2006.

    Advanced Technologies and Corporate Headquarters

         The Company owns approximately 153,000 square feet of office space
    principally in Massachusetts and New York, and leases approximately
    1,108,000 square feet of office, engineering, and laboratory space
    principally in Florida, Massachusetts, California, and Minnesota, under
    leases expiring from 1997 to 2013.

         The Company believes that its facilities are in good condition and
    are suitable and adequate to meet its current needs, and that suitable
    replacements are available on commercially reasonable terms for any
    leases that expire in 1997 in the event that the Company is unable to
    renew such leases on reasonable terms.

                                       22PAGE

    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         Not applicable.


    Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         Not applicable.


                                     PART II

    Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
            Matters

         Information concerning the market and market price for the
    Registrant's common stock, $1.00 par value, and related matters, is
    included under the sections labeled "Common Stock Market Information" and
    "Dividend Policy" in the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


    Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

         The information required under this item is included under the
    sections "Ten Year Financial Summary" and "Dividend Policy" in the
    Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
    herein by reference.


    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations

         The information required under this item is included under the
    heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
    Results of Operations" in the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
    Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.


    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements as of December
    28, 1996, are included in the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
    Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference.


    Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosures

         Not Applicable.

                                       23PAGE

                                    PART III

    Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The information concerning directors required under this item is
    incorporated herein by reference from the material contained under the
    caption "Election of Directors" in the Registrant's definitive proxy
    statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the close of
    the fiscal year. The information concerning delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the
    material contained under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance" under the caption "Stock Ownership" in the
    Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120
    days after the close of the fiscal year.


    Item 11.  Executive Compensation

         The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Executive
    Compensation" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A,
    not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


    Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Stock Ownership"
    in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later
    than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


    Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the material contained under the caption "Relationship
    with Affiliates" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation
    14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.




                                       24PAGE

                                     PART IV

    Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
              Form 8-K

    (a), (d)  Financial Statements and Schedules

              (1)  The financial statements set forth in the list below are
                   filed as part of this Report.
              (2)  The financial statement schedule set forth in the list
                   below is filed as part of this Report.
              (3)  Exhibits filed herewith or incorporated herein by
                   reference are set forth in Item 14(c) below.

              List of Financial Statements and Schedules Referenced in this
              Item 14

              Information incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 filed
              herewith:

                   Consolidated Statement of Income
                   Consolidated Balance Sheet
                   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                   Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                   Report of Independent Public Accountants

              Financial Schedule included herewith:

              Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

              All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
              or not required, or because the required information is shown
              either in the financial statements or in the notes thereto.

    (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

             None.

    (c)      Exhibits

             See Exhibit Index on the page immediately preceding exhibits.


                                       25PAGE

                                   SIGNATURES

             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
    Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.

    Date: March 19, 1997

                                         THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION


                                         By: George N. Hatsopoulos
                                             ---------------------
                                             George N. Hatsopoulos
                                             Chief Executive Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
    the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, as of March 19, 1997.

    Signature                          Title
    ---------                          -----

    By:George N. Hatsopoulos          Chief Executive Officer, Chairman
       ----------------------
       George N. Hatsopoulos            of the Board, and Director

    By:John N. Hatsopoulos            President and Chief Financial
       ----------------------
       John N. Hatsopoulos              Officer

    By:Paul F. Kelleher               Vice President, Finance and Adminis-
       ----------------------
       Paul F. Kelleher                 tration (Chief Accounting officer)

    By:John M. Albertine              Director
       ----------------------
       John M. Albertine

    By:Peter O. Crisp                 Director
       ----------------------
       Peter O. Crisp

    By:Elias P. Gyftopoulos           Director
       ----------------------
       Elias P. Gyftopoulos

    By:Frank Jungers                  Director
       ----------------------
       Frank Jungers

    By:Robert A. McCabe               Director
       ----------------------
       Robert A. McCabe

    By:Frank E. Morris                Director
       ----------------------
       Frank E. Morris

    By:Donald E. Noble                Director
       ----------------------
       Donald E. Noble

    By:Hutham S. Olayan               Director
       ----------------------
       Hutham S. Olayan

    By:Roger D. Wellington            Director
       ----------------------
       Roger D. Wellington

                                       26PAGE

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants
                    ----------------------------------------


    To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
    Thermo Electron Corporation:

         We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
    standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Thermo
    Electron Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by
    reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated
    February 12, 1997 (except with respect to the matter discussed in Note 16
    as to which the date is March 12, 1997). Our audits were made for the
    purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
    schedule listed in Item 14 on page 25 is the responsibility of the
    Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
    consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
    the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic consolidated
    financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material
    respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation
    to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                 Arthur Andersen LLP



    Boston, Massachusetts
    February 12, 1997













                                       27PAGE

 SCHEDULE II

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)

                    Balance   Provision
                         at     Charged             Accounts           Balance
                  Beginning          to    Accounts  Written            at End
 Description        of Year     Expense   Recovered      Off  Other(a) of Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Year Ended
   December 28, 1996

 Allowance for
  Doubtful
  Accounts          $29,318     $ 6,002      $ 760   $(8,994) $ 7,235  $34,321

 Year Ended
   December 30, 1995

 Allowance for
   Doubtful
   Accounts         $21,664     $ 5,534      $   5   $(6,422) $ 8,537  $29,318

 Year Ended
   December 31, 1994

 Allowance for
   Doubtful
   Accounts         $14,174     $ 4,225      $ 268   $(4,649) $ 7,646  $21,664

 (a) Allowances of businesses acquired during the year as described in Note 3
     to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1996 Annual
     Report to Shareholders and the effect of foreign currency translation.




                                       28PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number       Description of Exhibit
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
       2.1        Amended and Restated Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement
                  dated March 29, 1996, among the Registrant, Thermo
                  Instrument, and Fisons plc (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
                  Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended March 30, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference). Pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of
                  Regulation S-K, schedules to this Agreement have been
                  omitted. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish
                  supplementally a copy of such schedules to the Commission
                  upon request.

       3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as
                  amended (filed as Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                  29, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

       3.2        By-laws of the Registrant, as amended.

       4.1        Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of April 15, 1994, between
                  the Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to the
                  Registrant's 5% Senior Convertible Debentures due 2001
                  (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report
                  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 1994 [File No.
                  1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).

                  Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of January 3, 1996,
                  between the Registrant and Chemical Bank pertaining to the
                  Registrant's 4 1/4% Subordinated Convertible Debentures due
                  2003 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
                  1995 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

                  The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A)
                  of Regulation S-K, to furnish to the Commission upon
                  request, a copy of each instrument with respect to other
                  long-term debt of the Registrant or its consolidated
                  subsidiaries.

       4.2        Rights Agreement dated as of January 19, 1996, between the
                  Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston, which
                  includes as Exhibit A the Form of Certificate of
                  Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights Certificate,
                  and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights to Purchase
                  Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form 8-A, declared effective by
                  the Commission on January 31, 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

                                       29PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.1        Thermo Electron Corporate Charter as amended and restated
                  effective January 3, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference).

      10.2        Form of Severance Benefit Agreement with officers (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No.
                  1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).

      10.3        Form of Indemnification Agreement with directors and
                  officers (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
                  1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                  reference).

      10.4        Loan and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December 1,
                  1991, among North County Resource Recovery Associates;
                  Union Bank of Switzerland; National Westminster Bank PLC
                  and Banque Paribas, New York Branch, as lead managers;
                  Credit Local de France as co-lead manager; and Union Bank
                  of Switzerland as issuing bank and as agent (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                  [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).

      10.5        Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1993, among Chemical Trust Company of
                  California as Owner Trustee; Delano Energy Company Inc.;
                  ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, for itself and as Agent;
                  The First National Bank of Boston, as Co-agent; Barclays
                  Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Societe Generale, as Co-agent; and
                  BayBank, as Lead Manager (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference).

      10.6        Amended and Restated Participation Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1991, among Delano Energy Company Inc.; Thermo
                  Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy Systems
                  Corporation); Chemical Trust Company of California, as
                  Owner Trustee; ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, as
                  Co-agent; Bank of Montreal, as Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC,
                  as Co-agent; Society Generale, as Co-agent; BayBank, as
                  Lead Manager; and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Island Branch,
                  and joined in by the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

                                       30PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.7        Turnkey Engineering, Procurement, Construction, and Initial
                  Operation Agreement for a de-inking pulp facility dated as
                  of November 1, 1994, between the Registrant, as contractor,
                  and Great Lakes Pulp Partners I, L.P., as owner (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No.
                  1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). Pursuant to
                  Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, schedules to this
                  Agreement have been omitted. The Company hereby undertakes
                  to furnish supplementally a copy of such schedules to the
                  Commission upon request.

      10.8        Stock Holdings Assistance Plan and Form of Promissory Note.

    10.9 - 10.20  Reserved.

      10.21       Deferred Compensation for Directors of the Registrant
                  (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File
                  No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                  number of shares issuable is 679,218 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1986 and
                  1992 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986,
                  October 1993, May 1995, and June 1996.)

      10.22       Amended and Restated Directors' Stock Option Plan of the
                  Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein
                  by reference).

      10.23       Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                  Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein by
                  reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                  aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's Nonqualified
                  Stock Option Plan is 13,552,734 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increases approved in 1984 and 1986, share
                  decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock splits
                  effected in October 1986, October 1993, May 1995, and June
                  1996.)




                                       31PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.24       Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                  Exhibit 4(e) to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein by
                  reference). (Plan amended in 1984 to extend expiration date
                  to December 14, 1994; maximum number of shares issuable in
                  the aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan is 13,552,734 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1984 and
                  1986, share decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock
                  splits effected in October 1986, October 1993, May 1995,
                  and June 1996.)

      10.25       Equity Incentive Plan of the Registrant (filed as Exhibit
                  10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Plan amended in 1989 to
                  restrict exercise price for SEC reporting persons to not
                  less than 50% of fair market value or par value; maximum
                  number of shares issuable is 10,575,000 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
                  October 1993, May 1995, and June 1996, and share increase
                  approved in 1994.)

      10.26       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Inc. Nonqualified
                  Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4 to a Registration
                  Statement on Form S-8 of Thermedics [Reg. No. 2-93747] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 450,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increase approved in 1988, 5-for-4 stock
                  split effected in January 1985, 4-for-3 stock split
                  effected in September 1985, and 3-for-2 stock splits
                  effected in October 1986 and November 1993.)

      10.27       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                  Inc. (formerly Thermo Environmental Corporation)
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(c) to a
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermo Instrument
                  [Reg. No. 33-8034] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Maximum number of shares issuable is 421,875 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock splits effected in July
                  1993 and April 1995, 5-for-4 stock split effected in
                  December 1995.)


                                       32PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.28       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                  Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12
                  to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 600,285 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increase approved in 1988, 3-for-2 stock
                  splits effected in January 1988, July 1993 and April 1995,
                  and 5-for-4 stock split effected in December 1995.)

      10.29       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo TerraTech Inc.
                  (formerly Thermo Process Systems Inc.) Nonqualified Stock
                  Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein
                  by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                  108,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 6-for-5 stock
                  splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989 and 3-for-2
                  stock split effected in September 1989.)

      10.30       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Power Corporation
                  (formerly Tecogen Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987
                  [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Amended in September 1995 to extend the plan expiration
                  date to December 31, 2005.)

      10.31       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Cardiosystems Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 250,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect share increases approved in 1990, 1992, and 1997,
                  3-for-2 stock split effected in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock
                  split effected in May 1990, 2-for-1 stock split effected in
                  November 1993, and 3-for-2 stock split effected in May
                  1996.)

      10.32       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Ecotek Corporation
                  (formerly Thermo Energy Systems Corporation) Nonqualified
                  Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the
                  Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                  herein by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                  487,500 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock
                  split effected in October 1996.)


                                       33PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.33       Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoTrex Corporation
                  (formerly Thermo Electron Technologies Corporation)
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 225,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in October 1993 and
                  share increase approved in March 1997.)

      10.34       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibertek Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to
                  the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended December 28, 1991 [File No. 1-8002] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 900,000 shares, after adjustment to
                  reflect 2-for-1 stock split effected in September 1992 and
                  3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1995 and June
                  1996.)

      10.35       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly
                  Universal Voltronics Corp.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                  (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                  [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
                  (Maximum number of shares issuable is 86,250 shares, after
                  adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                  November 1993, share increase approved in September 1995,
                  and 3-for-2 stock split effected in August 1996.)

      10.36       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo BioAnalysis
                  Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.31 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No.
                  1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                  number of shares issuable is 150,000 shares, after share
                  increase approved in March 1997.)

      10.37       Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLyte Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.32 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                  shares issuable is 150,000 shares, after share increase
                  approved in March 1997.)

      10.38       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Remediation Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.33 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

                                       34PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

    Exhibit
    Number        Description of Exhibit
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
      10.39       Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoSpectra Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.34 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.40       Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLase Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.35 to
                  Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.41       Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoQuest Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.41 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.42       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Optek Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.42 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.43       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Sentron Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.43 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.44       Thermo Electron Corporation - Trex Medical Corporation
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.44 to
                  Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      10.45       Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibergen Inc.
                  Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.19 to
                  Trex Medical's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended September 28, 1996 [File No. 1-11827] and
                  incorporated herein by reference).

      11          Computation of earnings per share.

      13          Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December
                  28, 1996 (only those portions incorporated herein by
                  reference).

      21          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      23          Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

      27          Financial Data Schedule.



