
10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                ------------------
                                    FORM 10-K
   (mark one)
   [ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995

   [   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
   Delaware                                                         04-2209186
   (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

   81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
   Waltham, Massachusetts                                           02254-9046
   (Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (617) 622-1000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                         Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                                     on which registered
   -------------------                                     -------------------
   Common Stock, $1.00 par value                       New York Stock Exchange
   Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
   of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the
   filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ]  No [   ]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
   to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
   information statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form
   10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   Registrant as of January 26, 1996, was approximately $4,625,253,000.

   As of January 26, 1996, the Registrant had 87,927,556 shares of Common
   Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
   Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
   ended December 30, 1995, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
   Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 1996, are incorporated by
   reference into Part III.
PAGE

                                     PART I


   Item 1.  Business

   (a)  General Development of Business

   Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or the
   Registrant) develop, manufacture, and market environmental monitoring and
   analysis instruments; biomedical products including heart-assist devices,
   respiratory care equipment, and mammography systems; paper-recycling and
   papermaking equipment; alternative-energy systems; industrial process
   equipment; and other specialized products. The Company also provides
   environmental, laboratory, and metallurgical services and conducts
   advanced-technology research and development. The Company performs its
   business through divisions and wholly owned subsidiaries, as well as
   majority-owned subsidiaries that are partially owned by the public or by
   private investors.

   A key element in the Company's growth has been its ability to commercialize
   innovative products and services emanating from research and development
   activities conducted at the Company's various subsidiaries and divisions.
   The Company's strategy has been to identify business opportunities arising
   from social, economic, and regulatory issues and to seek a leading market
   share through the application of proprietary technology. As part of this
   strategy, the Company continues to focus on the acquisition of
   complementary businesses that can be integrated into its existing core
   businesses to leverage the Company's access to new markets.

   The Company believes that maintaining an entrepreneurial atmosphere is
   essential to its continued growth and development. In order to preserve
   this atmosphere, the Company has adopted a strategy of spinning out certain
   of its businesses into separate subsidiaries and having these subsidiaries
   sell a minority interest to outside investors. The Company believes that
   this strategy provides additional motivation and incentives for the
   management of the subsidiaries through the establishment of subsidiary-
   level stock option incentive programs, as well as capital to support the
   subsidiaries' growth. The Company's wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries
   are provided with centralized corporate development, administrative,
   financial, and other services that would not be available to many
   independent companies of similar size. As of March 11, 1996, the Company
   had 16 subsidiaries that have sold minority equity interests, 12 of which
   are publicly traded and 4 of which are privately held. In addition, two
   subsidiaries have privately sold debentures that will be convertible into
   shares of common stock of these subsidiaries upon completion of their
   initial public offerings.

   The Company is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956. The
   Company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the
   New York Stock Exchange in 1980. The principal executive office of the
   Company is 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02254-9046 (telephone:
   617-622-1000).
                                        2PAGE

   (b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

   The Company's products and services are divided into six segments:
   Instruments, Alternative-energy Systems, Process Equipment, Biomedical
   Products, Environmental Services, and Advanced Technologies. Products or
   services within a particular segment are provided by more than one
   subsidiary, and certain subsidiaries' products or services are included in
   more than one segment. The principal products and services offered by the
   Company in the six industry segments are described in detail below (see
   "Principal Products and Services"). Financial information concerning the
   Company's industry segments is summarized in Note 15 to Consolidated
   Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1995* Annual Report to
   Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

   (c)  Description of Business

        (i) Principal Products and Services

   Instruments

   The Company, through its Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary, is a
   worldwide leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of
   analytical, monitoring, process control, and imaging, inspection, and
   measurement instruments used to identify and analyze air pollution,
   radioactivity, complex chemical compounds, toxic metals, and other elements
   in a broad range of liquids and solids, as well as to control, monitor,
   image, inspect, and measure various industrial processes and life sciences
   phenomena.

   Thermo Instrument historically has expanded both through the acquisition of
   companies, product lines, and technologies and through internal development
   of new products and technologies. During the past several years Thermo
   Instrument has completed a number of complementary acquisitions that have
   provided additional technologies, specialized manufacturing or product
   development expertise, and broader capabilities in marketing and
   distribution. In 1995, Thermo Instrument's acquisitions included Gould
   Instrument Systems, Inc. and the Analytical Instrument Division of
   Analytical Technology, Inc.

   On March 1, 1995, Thermo Instrument entered into an agreement with Fisons
   plc (Fisons) to acquire the Scientific Instruments Division of Fisons for
   approximately 202 million British pounds sterling. On April 13, 1995,
   Thermo Instrument announced that it had received a "second request" for
   information regarding the transaction from the U.S. Federal Trade
   Commission (FTC). After extensive discussions with Fisons and the FTC, in
   January 1996, Thermo Instrument withdrew its original pre-merger
   notification filing under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act
   (the HSR Act), and submitted a new filing with respect to a modified form
   of the acquisition. On February 15, 1996, Thermo Instrument announced that
   the FTC had granted early termination of the waiting period under the HSR
   Act with respect to the modified acquisition and, on March 1, 1996, Thermo
   Instrument announced that it had received clearance from U.K. antitrust
   regulatory authorities. The form of the acquisition cleared by the FTC and
   the U.K. authorities excludes from the businesses to be acquired by Thermo
   Instrument substantially all of the mass spectrometer businesses of Fisons
   and a high-resolution mass spectrometer/inductively-coupled plasma product.
   These businesses accounted for slightly less than 20% of the 1995

   * References to 1995, 1994, and 1993 herein are for the fiscal years ended
     December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994, respectively.
                                        3PAGE

   revenues of Fisons' Scientific Instruments Division. The new purchase price
   is expected to be slightly less than 150 million British pounds sterling
   and will be subject to a post-closing adjustment based on the net asset
   value of the acquired businesses as of the closing date. The modified
   acquisition is still subject to the consent of certain third parties and
   the satisfaction of other closing conditions.

   Thermo Instrument has adopted Thermo Electron's spinout strategy in an
   effort to more clearly focus its many analytical technologies on their more
   specific niche markets. To date, Thermo Instrument has completed an initial
   public offering of ThermoSpectra Corporation, has privately offered equity
   in Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation, and has privately sold convertible
   debentures in Thermo Optek Corporation and ThermoQuest Corporation.

   ThermoSpectra develops, manufactures, and markets precision imaging,
   inspection, and measurement instruments based on high-speed data
   acquisition and digital processing technologies to provide industrial and
   research customers with integrated systems that address their specific
   needs. ThermoSpectra's products include digital oscillographic recorders
   and data acquisition systems that continuously measure and monitor signals
   from various sensors; digital storage oscilloscopes (DSOs) capable of
   taking hundreds of millions of measurements per second of transient signals
   or short bursts of data; X-ray microanalyzers used as accessories to
   electron microscopes to provide elemental materials analysis as a
   supplement to the microscope's imaging capabilities; nondestructive X-ray
   inspection systems for process monitoring and quality control applications;
   and confocal laser scanning microscopes that use laser light to generate
   precise optical images primarily for life science applications.

   Thermo BioAnalysis develops, manufactures, and sells capillary
   electrophoresis, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight
   (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, and health physics instrumentation.
   Capillary electrophoresis is a powerful separation technique based on a
   combination of chromatographic and electroanalytical technologies.
   MALDI-TOF mass spectrometers measure the weight of the components of a
   sample and identify inorganic chemical components and/or inorganic elements
   contained within the sample. Thermo BioAnalysis' health physics division
   manufactures and sells radiation detection and counting instrumentation and
   sophisticated radiation monitoring systems to the nuclear industry
   throughout the world. In February 1996, Thermo BioAnalysis acquired
   Dynatech Laboratories Worldwide from Dynatech Corporation, which designs,
   manufactures, and markets products used in the immunoassay segment of the
   bioinstrumentation market. Immunoassay is an analytical method widely used
   in pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical research, as well as for clinical
   testing of patient samples.

   Thermo Optek is a leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of
   products used for both elemental and molecular analysis. These products are
   based on several optical spectroscopy techniques, including Atomic Emission
   (AE), Atomic Absorption (AA), and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and
   FT-Raman technologies.

                                        4PAGE

   Thermo Optek's AE and AA spectrometers identify and measure trace
   quantities of metals and other elements in a wide variety of materials,
   including environmental samples (such as soil, water, and wastes), foods,
   drugs, cosmetics, and alloys. Thermo Optek sells its products to a range of
   customers from manufacturing industries to service industries to government
   and university laboratories. Thermo Optek is a leading manufacturer of
   FT-IR and FT-Raman spectrometers, which nondestructively determine the
   chemical composition and physical properties of materials. These
   instruments are used in chemical research, industrial quality control, and
   process monitoring, and for solving a wide variety of materials-analysis
   problems.

   ThermoQuest is a leading manufacturer of commercial mass spectrometers and
   has pioneered many of the significant developments and applications of mass
   spectrometry. ThermoQuest's mass spectrometry products identify and measure
   the components of a sample for organic chemical compounds or for inorganic
   compounds. These instruments are used by customers in research and the
   production of pharmaceuticals; in environmental analysis and pollution
   control; in biochemistry; in analysis of foods, chemicals, and
   petrochemicals; and in health and forensic sciences. ThermoQuest also
   manufactures high performance liquid chromatographs, gas chromatographs,
   and related instruments and equipment used principally in the research and
   development and production monitoring of pharmaceuticals and chemicals, and
   for environmental monitoring. These instruments separate the chemical
   components of substances for purposes of identification and measurement.

   Thermo Instrument's wholly owned businesses manufacture monitoring
   instruments for two principal markets: the detection and measurement of
   nuclear radiation, and the monitoring of air pollutants including toxic and
   combustible gases.

   The Company's nuclear radiation monitoring instruments detect and measure
   alpha, beta, gamma, neutron, and X-ray radiation emitted by natural sources
   and by radioactive materials used in nuclear power plants and certain
   governmental, industrial, and medical facilities. The Company is a major
   supplier of instruments and systems that are manufactured to European
   standards for personnel protection and environmental monitoring. The
   Company also manufactures industrial gauging and process control
   instruments used principally by manufacturers of flat-sheet materials,
   including metals, plastics, rubber, paper, and fibers.

   The Company's air-monitoring instruments measure pollutants in ambient air
   and from stationary sources such as industrial smoke stacks. The principal
   pollutants measured are oxides of nitrogen, sulfur dioxide, carbon
   monoxide, ozone, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). These instruments
   are used by utility and industrial customers to ensure compliance with
   environmental regulations, by government agencies to monitor air quality,
   and by research facilities. The Occupational Safety and Health
   Administration's safety requirements for protecting workers from toxic or
   explosive atmospheres in confined spaces are addressed with the Company's
   detectors, instruments, and systems for sensing, monitoring, and warning of
   such dangers.
                                        5PAGE

   In addition, the Company manufactures equipment that provides on-line,
   real-time analysis of elements in bulk raw materials, such as coal and
   cement.

   The Company manufactures and markets a number of process monitoring,
   analysis, and control systems including: analog and digital recorders for
   continuous process industries; process and laboratory analytical
   instruments and monitors to detect lethal gases for the oil, gas, and
   petrochemical industries; supervisory control and data acquisition software
   for process monitoring and operator interface in a variety of industrial
   processes; and turnkey, integrated systems to control networks of distant
   oil and gas wells.

   The Company also manufactures and markets process gauges and noncontacting
   and nonintrusive process control instrumentation to measure liquid levels,
   density, weight, and flows for a variety of industries. The Company's X-ray
   fluorescence instruments allow for the nondestructive analysis of inorganic
   elements. Applications include alloy identification, on-line process
   monitoring and quality control, characterization of toxic metals in soil,
   and thickness and/or composition of semiconductor thin films.

   The 1995 acquisition of ATI's Analytical Instrument Division added to the
   Company's product offerings in several analytical areas, notably in
   ultraviolet visual spectrometry and thermogravimetric analysis.

   Alternative-energy Systems

   The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment includes the operation
   and, prior to 1994, the construction and sale of independent (nonutility)
   power plants. This segment also includes the manufacture, sale, and
   servicing of industrial refrigeration systems; natural gas and marine
   engines; packaged cooling and cogeneration systems; and steam turbines and
   compressors.

   Alternative-energy Power Plants

   Through its Thermo Ecotek Corporation subsidiary, the Company designs,
   develops, owns, and operates independent (nonutility) electric power
   generation facilities that use a range of environmentally responsible
   combustion technologies. Since 1987, the Company has owned and operated
   facilities fueled by agricultural and wood waste, including urban wood
   waste (referred to as "biomass"). The Company currently operates seven
   facilities representing total electric generating capacity of approximately
   140 megawatts. The Company develops and operates its facilities through
   joint ventures or limited partnerships in which the Company has a majority
   interest or through wholly owned subsidiaries.

   Thermo Ecotek intends to pursue project development and acquisition
   opportunities both in the U.S. and internationally. Projects are expected
   to include power generation and "clean-fuels" production and processing
   facilities, and may include natural gas infrastructure facilities and
   investments in other environmental businesses in the future.
                                        6PAGE

   The facilities that are leased by the Company are owned by institutional
   investors and leased on a long-term basis to the Company or to joint
   ventures or partnerships in which the Company has ownership interests. The
   Company uses internal funds for preconstruction development expenses and
   generally obtains external financing for construction. The Company has
   equity ownership interests in three operating plants. The Company may make
   additional significant equity investments in future projects. The process
   of locating, developing, financing, and constructing power plants is highly
   complex, lengthy, and expensive and only a small percentage of the power
   projects that the Company evaluates or pursues results in operating
   projects.

   In August 1995, Thermo Ecotek, through two wholly owned subsidiaries,
   entered into a Limited Partnership Agreement with KFX Wyoming, Inc., a
   subsidiary of KFX Inc. (KFX), to develop, construct, and operate a
   subbituminous coal-beneficiation plant to be located near Gillette,
   Wyoming. The plant, which is expected to begin commercial operation in late
   1996, will employ certain patented clean coal technology.

   Thermo Ecotek also entered into an agreement with KFX under which Thermo
   Ecotek acquired 3,000,000 shares of KFX common stock, or approximately 14%
   of the outstanding stock of KFX, for $2.00 per share, and obtained the
   rights to purchase up to 51% of KFX common stock at certain times through
   2000.

   In July 1995, Thermo Ecotek entered into an agreement to invest $15 million
   in a 185 megawatt combined cycle, steam-turbine electric generation
   facility located in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic, owned by Smith/Enron
   Cogeneration Limited Partnership (SECLP), contingent upon the satisfaction
   by the facility of certain performance tests. In other international
   projects, Thermo Ecotek has two plants under development in India, and has
   begun development efforts in the Czech Republic, to provide environmentally
   friendly power generation.

   Waste-recycling Facility

   In early 1994, the Company completed construction and commenced operation
   of a 2,100-ton-per-day municipal solid waste-recycling facility (the
   Recycling Facility) in San Diego County, California (the County). The
   construction of the Recycling Facility was financed by the issuance of
   $133.7 million principal amount of bonds by the California Pollution
   Control Financing Authority (the CPCFA Bonds). The County is a party to
   these financing arrangements and is responsible for payment of the facility
   debt in the event of County defaults. The obligations are nonrecourse to
   the Company for events of County default.

   The Company entered into a 24-year agreement with the County under which
   the Company, for a service fee, was committed to recycle materials
   recovered from the County's waste stream to reduce the volume of remaining
   waste. During 1995, the County ceased delivering waste to the facility and
   defaulted on certain payment obligations to the Company. The County was
   also not in compliance with certain covenants of its agreements with the
   bank group that provided the facility financing. As a result of the
   preceding events, the Company wrote off its net investment in the facility
   during 1995. (See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
   Condition and Results of Operations" incorporated by reference into Item 7
   hereof.)
                                        7PAGE

   Other

   The Company, through its Thermo Power Corporation subsidiary, develops,
   manufactures, markets, and services environmentally sound and economically
   efficient industrial refrigeration equipment, natural gas-fueled and
   low-emission natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary applications,
   lift-truck engines, marine engines, and commercial cooling and cogeneration
   units.

   Through its industrial refrigeration business, the Company provides
   environmentally sound solutions to the refrigeration needs of the
   food-processing, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical industries. More than
   80% of the Company's refrigeration products operate on ammonia, a
   nonozone-depleting alternative to the chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants
   gradually being phased out by government regulations. The 1994 acquisition
   of NuTemp, Inc., which rents and sells new and remanufactured commercial
   cooling and industrial refrigeration equipment, broadens the product lines
   and services the Company offers.

   Many of Thermo Power's products are powered by its low-emission dedicated
   natural gas-fueled TecoDrive(R) engines. Thermo Power has supplied major
   fleet operators such as United Parcel Service and the U.S. Postal Service
   with TecoDrive engines to power some of their alternative-fuel vehicles.
   Thermo Power also manufactures natural gas engines for stationary
   applications, including compressor drives. Other products that operate with
   TecoDrive engines include cooling and cogeneration systems and gas
   engine-driven refrigeration systems. The Company also manufactures gasoline
   and LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) engines for lift trucks and gasoline
   engines for marine applications, primarily "cruiser" class boats ranging in
   size from 25 to 45 feet.

   In addition, the Company conducts sponsored research and development on
   advanced systems for clean combustion, including a low-cost system for
   converting a diesel-fueled engine to operate solely on natural gas without
   major modifications to the engine.

   Through its ThermoLyte Corporation subsidiary, formed in March 1995, Thermo
   Power is developing a line of propane-powered lighting products, including
   flashlights, area lights or lanterns, and hazard lights. These products
   will be based on proprietary technology for a rigid mantle, the "bulb" in
   gas lighting products.

   The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment also includes its Peter
   Brotherhood Ltd. subsidiary, a U.K.-based manufacturer of steam turbines
   and compressors.

   Process Equipment

   The Company designs, manufactures, and sells advanced, custom-engineered
   processing machinery, including paper-recycling and papermaking equipment,
   metallurgical thermal-processing systems, and electroplating systems.
                                        8PAGE

   Paper-recycling and Papermaking Equipment

   Through its Thermo Fibertek Inc. subsidiary, the Company designs and
   manufactures processing machinery and accessories for the paper-recycling
   and papermaking industries. The Company's principal products include
   custom-engineered systems and equipment for the preparation of wastepaper
   for conversion into recycled paper, and accessory equipment and related
   consumables important to the efficient operation of papermaking machines.
   The Company has developed technologically advanced equipment for the
   preparation of white recycled fiber (e.g. printing and office paper,
   newsprint, and tissue). The Company sells in countries outside the Pacific
   Rim technologically advanced equipment for the preparation of brown
   recycled fiber (e.g. corrugated boxes and paper bags) pursuant to a license
   from Aikawa Iron Works Co., Ltd., a leading Japanese manufacturer of this
   equipment.

   Thermo Fibertek also designs and manufactures accessories used in the
   papermaking industry, including doctor blades and showers that perform
   on-line continuous cleaning of the fabrics and rolls used in the
   papermaking process. This cleaning process is important to papermakers
   because it reduces machine breakdowns, extends the life of consumable paper
   machine fabrics, and improves paper quality. Thermo Fibertek also
   manufactures forming tables, vacuum systems, and water-management systems.

   In December 1994, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a
   $145 million contract for engineering, procurement, and construction
   services for an office wastepaper de-inking facility located in Menominee,
   Michigan. Completion of construction is expected in 1996. Thermo Fibertek
   is supplying approximately $16 million of equipment and services under the
   contract over a two-year period.

   Metallurgical Thermal-processing Systems

   The Company, through a division of its Thermo TerraTech Inc. subsidiary
   (formerly Thermo Process Systems Inc.), designs, manufactures, and sells
   computer-controlled, custom-engineered thermal-processing systems used to
   treat primary metals and metal parts.

   The Company also manufactures electroplating systems, heavy metal and
   waste-treatment systems, and aqueous cleaning systems that offer an
   alternative to the use of ozone-damaging solvents in a variety of
   production processes.

   Biomedical Products

   The Company's Biomedical Products segment comprises a number of different
   businesses. The Company made several acquisitions in 1995, including Bird
   Medical Technologies, Inc. and Bennett X-Ray Corporation.

   Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics Inc.,
   has developed two versions of an implantable left ventricular-assist system
   (LVAS): a pneumatic system that can be controlled by either a bedside
   console or portable unit, and an electric system that features an internal
   electric motor powered by an external battery-pack worn by the patient.
                                        9PAGE

   These devices are designed to perform substantially all or part of the
   pumping function of the left ventricle of the natural heart for patients
   suffering from cardiovascular disease. Unlike a total artificial heart
   system, an LVAS allows the natural heart to remain in place to assist the
   heart when it is unable to provide sufficient cardiac function to maintain
   life. In October 1994, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted
   approval for commercial sale of the pneumatic LVAS. With this approval, the
   pneumatic system is available for sale to cardiac centers throughout the
   United States. In April 1994, the Company received the European Conformity
   Mark (CE Mark) for the commercial sale of the pneumatic LVAS in all
   European Community countries. The electric version of the LVAS, which
   received the CE Mark in August 1995, is currently being used in clinical
   trials in the U.S. for patients awaiting heart transplants and may not be
   sold commercially in this country until it has received approval from the
   FDA. In December 1995, the FDA approved the protocol for conducting
   clinical trials using Thermo Cardiosystems' electric LVAS as an alternative
   to transplant. It is implanted both as a bridge to transplant and as an
   alternative to heart transplants in Europe.

   The Company's wholly owned International Technidyne Corporation subsidiary
   is a leading manufacturer of hemostasis management products, including
   blood coagulation-monitoring instruments. International Technidyne also
   manufactures and markets skin-incision devices that can draw minute but
   medically significant blood samples through precisely controlled incisions.

   Nicolet Biomedical Inc., another wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is
   a leading manufacturer of biomedical instruments for assessing muscle,
   nerve, sleep, hearing, and brain blood-flow disorders and for related work
   in clinical neurophysiology. These instruments are used in hospitals,
   clinics, universities, private practice medical offices, and medical
   research facilities by physicians and technologists for routine clinical
   testing and intra-operative monitoring. Nicolet Biomedical also
   manufactures systems that record and display spontaneous brain waves in the
   form of a topographic colored "map." Such maps of brain activity are used
   in conjunction with other measurements to assist in the diagnosis of
   various neurologic disorders.

   Trex Medical Corporation, a majority owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex
   Corporation, is a leading manufacturer of low-dose X-ray mammography
   equipment and minimally invasive needle-biopsy systems. In 1992, the
   Company introduced a digital imaging mammography system designed to target
   only a specific area of the breast where a suspicious lesion has been
   detected, creating a digital image of the lesion on a video monitor within
   seconds of taking an X-ray. The advantage of digital imaging is that the
   radiologist can manipulate and enhance the image quality to scrutinize
   subtle differences that may go undetected on a film-based X-ray. The
   Company is developing a digital imaging system capable of imaging the whole
   breast rather than just a specific area. The FDA is currently evaluating
   whether this type of screening system will require a premarket approval
   application or a 510(k) application. The Company does not expect to submit
   data to the FDA seeking market clearance for its full-breast digital
   imaging system before the end of 1996.
                                       10PAGE

   Trex Medical's needle-biopsy systems provide a less-invasive alternative to
   conventional surgical biopsies. Compared with open surgery, these needle
   techniques are less traumatic to the patient, result in less scarring,
   which can affect the accuracy of future mammograms, and are performed on an
   outpatient basis at significantly lower cost.

   Acquired in September 1995, Bennett X-Ray Corporation, a subsidiary of Trex
   Medical, is a leading manufacturer of general-purpose and specialty
   radiographic systems, including mammography systems. Bennett manufactures
   office-based radiographic systems, which are cost-effective units generally
   used in doctors' offices and surgi-care centers. In 1993, Bennett broadened
   its focus by offering the more sophisticated, more expensive systems
   typically used in hospitals. Bennett entered the hospital market with
   systems based on its patented high-frequency generator, which permits
   shorter exposure times that result in lower radiation doses and greater
   image contrast and resolution.

   ThermoLase Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex,
   manufactures skin-care, bath, and body products sold through salons, spas,
   and stores, including the lotion that is an integral part of the
   laser-based SoftLight(SM) system that has been developed for the removal of
   unwanted hair.

   Bird Medical Technologies, Inc. was acquired by Thermo Electron in August
   1995. Bird Medical Technologies develops, manufactures, and sells
   respiratory care equipment and accessories and infection-control products
   to hospitals, subacute care facilities, outpatient surgical centers,
   doctors, dentists, the military, as well as other manufacturers.

   Environmental Services

   Through its Thermo TerraTech subsidiary, the Company provides comprehensive
   laboratory-based environmental testing and analysis, as well as design and
   construction inspection of water supply and wastewater treatment
   facilities, natural resource management consultation, surveying and site
   planning, transportation engineering services, solid waste management
   services, and building services.

   In February 1995, Thermo TerraTech acquired Elson T. Killam Associates
   Inc., which provides environmental consulting and engineering services and
   specializes in wastewater treatment and water resources management.

   In May 1995, Thermo TerraTech acquired substantially all of the assets of
   Lancaster Laboratories, Inc. and its affiliate Clewmark Holdings
   (collectively Lancaster Laboratories). Lancaster Laboratories, based in
   Lancaster, Pennsylvania, is a provider of high-quality analytical services
   to the environmental, food, and pharmaceutical industries.

   Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech,
   provides soil-remediation services from a network of regional centers.
   These soil-remediation centers thermally treat soils to remove and destroy
   hydrocarbon contamination caused by leaking storage tanks, spills
   accumulated at manufactured-gas plants and refineries, and from other
   sources. Thermo Remediation also operates a waste fluids-recycling facility
                                       11PAGE

   through a fluids-recovery company based in Arizona, and offers services in
   nuclear remediation and health safety at radioactivity contaminated sites.
   Through Thermo Remediation's December 1995 acquisition of Remediation
   Technologies, Inc., the Company also offers a broad array of remedial
   solutions, including bioremediation and the application of risk-based
   corrective actions such as brownfield development. A majority-owned
   subsidiary of Thermo TerraTech, Thermo EuroTech N.V. (formerly J. Amerika
   N.V.), provides waste-oil recycling, underground tank removal, and other
   environmental services from its Netherlands-based operation.

   In addition, metallurgical heat-treating services are provided for
   customers in the automotive, aerospace, defense, and other industries. The
   Company also provides metallurgical fabrication services, principally on
   high-temperature materials, for customers in the aerospace, medical,
   electronics, and nuclear industries.

   Advanced Technologies

   The Company's ThermoTrex subsidiary conducts sponsored research and
   development and is also attempting to commercialize new products based on
   advanced technologies it has developed in its laboratories. Sponsored
   research and development conducted by ThermoTrex, principally for the U.S.
   government, includes basic and applied research in electro-optic and
   electro-acoustic systems, signal processing, materials technology, and
   lasers.

   ThermoTrex is currently developing a passive microwave camera intended to
   "see" through clouds and fog to enhance safety in aerial navigation, the
   Sonic CT(TM) (computed tomography) system for the early detection of breast
   cancer, and a blood-flow measurement system, called the Doppler CT, for the
   diagnosis and monitoring of peripheral vascular disease. Because
   ThermoTrex's products are at different stages of development and subject to
   different levels of regulatory approval, no assurance can be given that the
   necessary approvals for any of the projects will be obtained on a timely
   basis, or at all, or that any of them will eventually result in
   commercially viable products.

   In April 1995, ThermoLase received clearance from the FDA to commercially
   market its laser-based hair-removal system, SoftLight. The SoftLight system
   uses a low-energy dermatology laser, in combination with a laser-absorbing
   lotion, to remove hair. On October 30, 1995, ThermoLase opened its first
   pilot retail center, Spa Thira, in La Jolla, California. Currently, this is
   the only location where the SoftLight process is available. ThermoLase has
   signed leases for Spa Thira locations in Dallas and Beverly Hills, and
   plans to begin opening additional centers in the second half of calendar
   1996. In January 1996, ThermoLase formed a joint venture to market the
   SoftLight process in Japan.

   Through Thermedics' Thermo Sentron Inc. (formerly Ramsey Technology, Inc.)
   subsidiary, the Company manufactures high-speed precision weighing and
   inspection equipment for industrial production and packaging lines serving
   two principal markets: packaged goods and bulk materials. The packaged
   goods market includes a wide range of checkweighing equipment and metal
   detectors that can be integrated at various stages in production lines for
                                       12PAGE

   process control and quality assurance and are sold primarily to customers
   in the food processing and pharmaceutical industries. The bulk materials
   product line includes conveyor belt scales, solids level measurement and
   conveyor monitoring devices, and sampling systems, all sold primarily to
   customers in the mining and material processing industries, as well as
   electric utilities, chemical, and other manufacturing companies.

   Through the Orion laboratory products division of Analytical Technology,
   Inc., acquired by Thermedics in December 1995, the Company manufactures
   electrochemistry, microweighing, process, and other instruments used to
   analyze the chemical composition of foods, beverages, and pharmaceuticals
   and detect contaminants in environmental and high-purity water samples.

   Based on technology that has been used to develop instruments sold by the
   Company for the detection of nitrogen-based compounds, the Company
   developed the EGIS(R) system for screening people, baggage, and electronic
   equipment, such as personal computers, for the presence of a wide range of
   explosives, including the plastic explosives that have proven difficult to
   detect using conventional methods. In 1992, the Company introduced a
   high-speed product quality assurance system based on its vapor-detection
   technology for use in bottling lines in the carbonated beverage industry
   (the Alexus(R) system). The Alexus system is currently being used to ensure
   product quality in more than 200 bottling lines worldwide. In 1994, the
   Company introduced a new system to the bottled water industry, and it
   continues to develop new technologies for product quality applications in
   response to consumer demand for product quality and regulatory influences.

   Thermo Voltek Corp., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics, designs,
   develops, and manufactures electronic test instruments that test electronic
   and electrical systems and components for electromagnetic compatibility
   (EMC), offers EMC-consulting and systems-integration services, acts as a
   distributor of a broad range of EMC-testing products, and manufactures
   power-conversion systems for use in telecommunications equipment. Thermo
   Voltek also designs, manufactures, and markets high-voltage power
   conversion systems, modulators, fast-response protection systems, and
   related high-voltage equipment for industrial, medical, and environmental
   processes, and defense and scientific research applications.

   The Company's wholly owned Coleman Research Corporation subsidiary,
   acquired in March 1995, provides systems integration, systems engineering,
   and analytical services to government and commercial customers in fields of
   information technology, energy and the environment, software engineering,
   launch systems, advanced radar imaging, and health systems.

   Publicly and Privately Held Subsidiaries

   In 1983, the Company adopted a strategy of having certain subsidiaries sell
   a minority interest in a public or private offering to outside investors.
   An important goal of this strategy is to provide the entrepreneurial
   atmosphere and focused performance incentives of a separate business. As of
   March 11, 1996, the Company had 16 subsidiaries that have sold minority
   equity interests, 12 of which are publicly traded and 4 of which are
   privately held. In addition, two subsidiaries have privately sold
   debentures that will be convertible into shares of common stock of these
   subsidiaries upon the completion of their initial public offerings.
                                       13PAGE

   Thermedics Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets product quality
   assurance systems, precision weighing and inspection equipment, explosives-
   detection devices, microweighing and electrochemistry instruments, as well
   as biomaterials and other biomedical products. Thermedics' products are
   included in the Company's Biomedical Products and Advanced Technologies
   segments.

        Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
        develops, manufactures, markets, and sells implantable left
        ventricular-assist systems designed to perform substantially all or
        part of the pumping function of the left ventricle of the natural
        heart for patients suffering from cardiovascular disease. Thermo
        Cardiosystems' products are included in the Company's Biomedical
        Products segment.

        Thermo Voltek Corp., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
        designs, manufactures, and markets instruments that test electronic
        systems and components for electromagnetic compatibility, and provides
        related distribution and consulting services. Thermo Voltek also
        designs and manufactures high-voltage power conversion systems for
        research and commercial applications, and specialized power supplies
        for telecommunications equipment. Thermo Voltek's products are
        included in the Company's Advanced Technologies segment.

   Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets
   analytical, monitoring, and process control instruments used to detect and
   measure air pollution, nuclear radioactivity, complex chemical compounds,
   toxic metals, and other elements in a wide range of materials as well as to
   control and monitor various industrial processes. Thermo Instrument's
   products represent the Company's Instruments segment.

        ThermoSpectra Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
        Instrument, develops, manufactures, and markets precision imaging,
        inspection, and measurement instruments based on high-speed data
        acquisition and digital processing technologies.

        Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held
        subsidiary of Thermo Instrument, develops, manufactures, and sells
        instrumentation for the analytical biochemistry, biopharmaceutical,
        and health physics instrumentation markets. It comprises four
        operations that specialize in capillary electrophoresis;
        matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass
        spectrometry; health physics instrumentation; and immunoassays, which
        are analytical methods widely used in pharmaceutical and
        biopharmaceutical research, as well as for clinical testing of patient
        samples.

        Thermo Optek Corporation, a wholly owned, privately held subsidiary of
        Thermo Instrument, is a worldwide leader in the development,
        manufacture, and marketing of optical and energy-based analytical
        instruments. These instruments are used in the quantitative and
        qualitative chemical analysis of elements and molecular compounds in a
        wide variety of solids, liquids, and gases.
                                       14PAGE

        ThermoQuest Corporation, a wholly owned, privately held subsidiary of
        Thermo Instrument, develops, manufactures, and sells mass
        spectrometers, liquid chromatographs, and gas chromatographs for the
        environmental, pharmaceutical, and industrial marketplaces. These
        analytical instruments are used in the quantitative and qualitative
        chemical analysis of organic and inorganic compounds at ultra-trace
        levels of detection.

   Thermo TerraTech Inc. provides environmental services and infrastructure
   planning and design encompassing a range of specializations within
   consulting and design, soil and water remediation, and laboratory testing.
   Thermo TerraTech also provides metal-treating services. Thermo TerraTech's
   products and services are included in the Company's Environmental Services
   and Process Equipment segments.

        Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
        TerraTech, is a leading provider, to clients nationwide, of services
        for the recycling of petroleum-contaminated soils and fluids as well
        as manufactured-gas plant and refinery wastes. Thermo Remediation is
        also a major supplier of nuclear remediation and safety services at
        radioactively contaminated sites, and is a leader in the application
        of bioremediation technology. Thermo Remediation's services are
        included in the Company's Environmental Services segment.

        Thermo EuroTech N.V., a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of
        Thermo TerraTech, provides environmental services in the Netherlands,
        including recycling waste oils, testing, removal, and installation of
        underground storage tanks, and groundwater cleanup. Thermo EuroTech's
        services are included in the Company's Environmental Services segment.

   Thermo Power Corporation manufactures, markets, and services industrial
   refrigeration equipment; natural gas engines for vehicular and stationary
   applications; natural gas-fueled cooling and cogeneration systems;
   lift-truck engines; and marine engines. Thermo Power also conducts
   sponsored research and development on advanced systems for clean combustion
   and other high-efficiency gas-fueled devices. Thermo Power's products are
   included in the Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment.

        ThermoLyte Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of
        Thermo Power, was formed in March 1995 to develop and commercialize a
        line of propane-powered lighting products, including flashlights, area
        lights or lanterns, and hazard lights.

   ThermoTrex Corporation manufactures and markets mammography and needle-
   biopsy systems for the early detection of breast cancer, and develops
   advanced technologies that it is incorporating into commercial products for
   the medical imaging, personal-care, and avionics industries. ThermoTrex's
   products are included in the Company's Advanced Technologies and Biomedical
   Products segments.

                                       15PAGE

        ThermoLase Corporation, a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex, has
        developed a laser-based system for the removal of unwanted hair, and
        manufactures skin-care and other personal-care products sold through
        salons, spas, and stores. ThermoLase's hair-removal system, called
        SoftLight, is included in the Company's Advanced Technologies segment,
        and its skin-care products are included in the Company's Biomedical
        Products segment.

        Trex Medical Corporation, a majority-owned privately held subsidiary
        of ThermoTrex, designs, manufactures, and markets mammography
        equipment and minimally invasive stereotactic needle biopsy systems
        used for the detection of breast cancer, as well as office-based
        general radiography equipment. Trex Medical's products are included in
        the Company's Biomedical Products segment.

   Thermo Fibertek Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets a range of
   equipment and accessory products for the domestic and international paper
   industry, including de-inking and stock-preparation equipment, and
   water-management systems for paper recycling. Thermo Fibertek's products
   are included in the Company's Process Equipment segment.

   Thermo Ecotek Corporation develops and operates independent (nonutility)
   power plants that use clean combustion technology and alternative-energy
   sources, such as agricultural waste. The Company is also now involved in
   engineered clean fuels, as well as a range of other environmentally sound
   technologies. Thermo Ecotek's operations are included in the Company's
   Alternative-energy Systems segment.

        (ii) New Products

   The Company's business includes the development and introduction of new
   products and may include entry into new business segments. The Company has
   made no commitments to new products that require the investment of a
   material amount of the Company's assets, nor does it have any definitive
   plans to enter new business segments that would require such an investment
   (see Section (xi) "Research and Development").

        (iii) Raw Materials

   Thermo Cardiosystems relies upon several custom-designed components and
   materials supplied by other companies to manufacture its LVAS. In 1992,
   several suppliers of such components and materials notified Thermo
   Cardiosystems that they intended to exit the biomedical market. While the
   Company believes that it will be able to develop new sources of, or
   alternatives to, these materials and components, no assurance can be given
   that the Company will develop such sources or alternatives in a timely
   manner, or that the FDA will approve the use of any such alternative
   materials or components.

   Except as described above, in the opinion of management, the Company has a
   readily available supply of raw materials for all of its significant
   products from various sources and does not anticipate any difficulties in
   obtaining the raw materials essential to its business.
                                       16PAGE

        (iv) Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

   The Company considers patents to be important in the present operation of
   its business. Except for ThermoLase's patents for its laser-based
   hair-removal system, the Company does not consider any patent, or related
   group of patents, to be of such importance that its expiration or
   termination would materially affect the Company's business taken as a
   whole. The Company seeks patent protection for inventions and developments
   made by its personnel and incorporated into its products or otherwise
   falling within its fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from work
   sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the
   Company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.

   The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and, where
   appropriate, uses trademarks or registers its products. It also enters into
   license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents
   and know-how.

        (v) Seasonal Influences

   There are no significant seasonal influences on the Company's sales of
   products and services.

        (vi) Working Capital Requirements

   There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to
   customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
   working capital.

        (vii) Dependency on a Single Customer

   No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total
   revenues in any of the past three years. The Advanced Technologies segment
   derived approximately 27%, 13%, and 23% of its revenues in 1995, 1994, and
   1993, respectively, from contracts with various agencies of the U.S.
   government and approximately 23% of its revenues in 1994 from one customer
   for a process-detection instrument. In connection with the development of
   power plants, the Company typically enters into long-term power supply
   contracts with a single customer for the sale of power generated by each
   plant. The Alternative-energy Systems segment derived 16% of its revenues
   in 1995 and 1994 and 9% of its revenues in 1993, from Pacific Gas &
   Electric and 15%, 19%, and 18% of its revenues in 1995, 1994, and 1993,
   respectively, from Southern California Edison.



                                       17PAGE

        (viii) Backlog

   The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1995 and 1994 was as
   follows:

   (In thousands)                                           1995        1994
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Instruments                                          $188,700    $139,600
   Alternative-energy Systems                            112,900     109,100
   Process Equipment                                     114,800     199,000
   Biomedical Products                                    77,100      37,300
   Environmental Services                                 76,500      46,700
   Advanced Technologies                                 117,200     206,500
                                                        --------    --------
                                                        $687,200    $738,200
                                                        ========    ========

   The Alternative-energy Systems segment backlog for 1994 has been restated
   to exclude the backlog of the Recycling Facility (see "Alternative-energy
   Systems" under section (c), "Description of Business").

   Backlog includes the uncompleted portion of research and development
   contracts and the uncompleted portion of certain equipment contracts that
   are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method. The Company
   believes approximately 95% of the 1995 backlog will be filled during fiscal
   1996.

        (ix) Government Contracts

   Approximately 9% of the Company's total revenues in 1995 were derived from
   contracts or subcontracts with the federal government, which are subject to
   renegotiation of profits or termination. The Company does not have any
   knowledge of threatened or pending renegotiation or termination of any
   material contract or subcontract.

        (x) Competition

   The Company is engaged in many highly competitive industries. The nature of
   the competition in each of the Company's markets is described below:

   Instruments

   The Company is among the principal manufacturers of analytical instrumenta-
   tion. Within the markets for the Company's analytical instrument products,
   the Company competes with several large corporations with broad product
   offerings, as well as numerous smaller companies that address only
   particular segments of the industry or specific geographic areas. The
   Company's instruments business generally competes on the basis of technical
   advances that result in new products and improved price-performance ratios,
   reputation among customers as a quality leader for products and services,
   and active research and application-development programs. To a lesser
   extent, the Company competes on the basis of price.
                                      18PAGE

   Alternative-energy Systems

   The worldwide independent power market consists of numerous companies,
   ranging from small startups to multinational industrial companies. In
   addition, a number of regulated utilities have created subsidiaries that
   compete as nonutility generators. Nonutility generators often specialize in
   market "niches," such as a specific technology or fuel (for example,
   gas-fired cogeneration, refuse-to-energy, hydropower, geothermal, wind,
   solar, wood or coal) or a specific region of the country where they believe
   they have a market advantage. However, many nonutility generators,
   including the Company, seek to develop projects on a best-available-fuel
   basis. The Company competes primarily on the basis of project experience,
   technical expertise, capital resources, and power pricing.

   The Company's sale of industrial refrigeration systems is subject to
   intense competition. The industrial refrigeration market is mature, highly
   fragmented, and extremely dependent on close customer contacts. Major
   industrial refrigeration companies, of which the Company is one, account
   for approximately one-half of worldwide sales, with the balance generated
   by many smaller companies. The Company competes principally on the basis of
   its advanced control systems and overall quality, reliability, service, and
   price. The Company believes it is a leader in remanufactured refrigeration
   equipment. Its rental services business has one large competitor that
   supplies rental equipment. The Company competes in this market based on
   price, delivery time, and customized equipment.

   The Company's sale of packaged cogeneration systems is subject to intense
   competition, both direct and indirect. Direct competitors consist of
   companies that sell cogeneration products resembling those sold by the
   Company as well as electric utilities' pricing programs. Indirect
   competitors include manufacturers of conventional heating and cooling
   systems.

   As the alternative-fuel engine market becomes fully developed, the Company
   anticipates that competition, specifically in the market for natural gas
   engines for vehicles, will be intense, and potential competitors may
   include major automotive and natural gas companies and other companies that
   have substantially greater financial resources than those of the Company.

   The Company has experienced intense competition in the marine engine
   business in recent years as some of its former customers have been acquired
   by competitors following the vertical integration of the boating industry.
   Competition is primarily on the basis of quality, reliability, and service.

   Process Equipment

   The Company faces significant competition in the markets for paper-
   recycling and water handling equipment and papermachine accessories, and
   competes in these markets primarily on the basis of quality, service,
   technical expertise, and product innovation. The Company is a leading
   supplier of accessory equipment for papermaking machines, and competes in
   this market primarily on the basis of service, technical expertise, and
   performance.
                                       19PAGE

   The market for thermal-processing systems is subject to intense competition
   worldwide. The Company is aware of at least eight companies that market a
   number of products comparable to the Company's, but competition for
   particular projects is typically limited to fewer companies. The Company
   competes on the basis of several factors, including technical performance,
   product quality and reliability, timely delivery, and often price.

   Biomedical Products

   Competition in the markets for most of the Company's biomedical products,
   including those manufactured by Thermo Cardiosystems, ThermoTrex, Nicolet
   Biomedical, ITC, and Bird Medical Technologies, is based to a large extent
   upon technical performance.

   The Company is aware of one other company that has submitted a PMA
   application with the FDA for an implantable LVAS. The Company is unaware
   whether this PMA application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. Also,
   the Company is aware of one other company that has received approval by the
   FDA Advisory Panel on Circulatory System Devices and subsequent commercial
   approval for its cardiac-assist device. This is an external device that is
   positioned on the outside of the patient's chest and is intended for
   short-term use in the hospital environment. The Company is also aware that
   a total artificial heart is currently undergoing clinical trials. The
   requirement of obtaining FDA approval for commercial sale of an LVAS is a
   significant barrier to entry into the U.S. market for these devices. There
   can be no assurance, however, that FDA regulations will not change in the
   future, reducing the time and testing required for others to obtain FDA
   approval. In addition, other research groups and companies are developing
   cardiac-assist systems using alternative technologies or concepts, one or
   more of which might prove functionally equivalent to or more suitable than
   the Company's systems. Among products that have been approved for
   commercial sale, the Company competes primarily on the basis of
   performance, service capability, reimbursement status, and price.

   The Company is one of a number of competitors in the markets for
   mammography and general radiographic systems and is one of two competitors
   in the market for prone stereotactic needle biopsy systems. The Company
   competes in these markets primarily on the basis of product features,
   product performance, and reputation, as well as price and service. Many of
   the Company's radiographic products are technologically innovative, and the
   markets in which the Company competes with these products are characterized
   by rapid technological change. The Company believes that in order for it to
   be competitive in these markets it will be important for it to continue to
   be technologically innovative.

   Environmental Services

   The Company competes in the market for soil-remediation services based on
   its ability to offer customers superior protection from environmental
   liabilities using a national network of cleanup facilities. The Company
   believes that there are two other companies that operate fixed-site
   thermal-treatment facilities for soil-remediation in multiple states.
   However, the Company faces competition in local markets from landfills,
                                       20PAGE

   other treatment technologies, and from companies competing with similar
   technologies, which limits the prices that can be charged by the Company.
   Pricing is therefore a major competitive factor for the Company.

   The Company's metallurgical services business competes in specialty
   machining services. Competition is based principally on services provided,
   turnaround time, and price.

   Hundreds of independent analytical testing laboratories and consulting
   firms compete for environmental services business nationwide. Many of these
   firms use equipment and processes similar to those of the Company.
   Competition is based not only on price, but also on reputation for
   accuracy, quality, and the ability to respond rapidly to customer
   requirements. In addition, many industrial companies have their own
   in-house analytical testing capabilities. The Company believes that its
   competitive strength lies in certain niche markets within which the Company
   is recognized for its expertise.

   Advanced Technologies

   In its contract research and development business, the Company not only
   competes with other companies and institutions that perform similar
   services, but must also rely on the ability of government agencies and
   other clients to obtain allocations of research and development monies to
   fund contracts with the Company. The Company competes for its research and
   development programs principally on the basis of technical innovations. As
   government funding becomes more scarce, particularly for defense projects,
   the competition for such funding will become more intense. In addition, as
   the Company's programs move from the development stage to commercializa-
   tion, competition is expected to intensify.

   The Company's Orion division competes with several international companies.
   In the markets for the products made by its Orion division, the Company
   competes on the basis of performance, service, technology, and price.

   The Company's Thermo Sentron subsidiary competes with several international
   and regional companies in the market for its products. Thermo Sentron's
   competitors in the packaged goods market differ from those in the bulk
   materials market. The principal competitive factors in both markets are
   customer service and support, quality, reliability, and price.

   The Company's product quality assurance systems compete with chemical-
   detection systems manufactured by several companies and with other
   technologies and processes for product quality assurance. Competition in
   the markets for all of the Company's detection products is based primarily
   on performance, service, and price.

   There are a number of competing technologies for instruments that detect
   explosives and narcotics, including makers of other chemical-detection
   instruments as well as enhanced X-ray detectors. To date, the Federal
   Aviation Administration (FAA) has not required that U.S. airports and
   airlines buy advanced explosives-detection equipment. The Company believes
   that companies, if any, whose devices are required by the FAA will have a
   substantial competitive advantage in the United States.
                                       21PAGE

   The Company is a leading supplier of pulsed electromagnetic interference
   testing equipment in the U.S., and believes that it is also among the
   leading suppliers in Europe and the Pacific Rim, other than Japan. The
   Company competes in this market primarily on the basis of performance,
   technical expertise, and reputation.

   The Company estimates that there are approximately 20 companies that
   independently manufacture and market high-voltage power supply systems of
   the general type manufactured and marketed by Thermo Voltek. Thermo Voltek
   competes for both contracts and commercial sales primarily on the basis of
   technical expertise, product performance, and reputation.

   The Company's Coleman Research subsidiary has numerous public and private
   competitors in its various market segments. Coleman Research competes
   primarily on the basis of price, technological performance, technical
   expertise, and reputation.

        (xi) Research and Development

   During 1995, 1994, and 1993, the Company expended $266,104,000,
   $229,200,000, and $176,316,000, respectively, on research and development.
   Of these amounts, $167,120,000, $149,645,000, and $116,733,000,
   respectively, were sponsored by customers and $98,984,000, $79,555,000, and
   $59,583,000, respectively, were Company-sponsored. Approximately 930
   professional employees were engaged full-time in research and development
   activities at December 30, 1995.

        (xii) Environmental Protection Regulations

   The Company believes that compliance with federal, state, and local
   environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse
   effect on its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

        (xiii) Number of Employees

   At December 30, 1995, the Company employed approximately 14,400 persons.

   (d)  Financial Information about Exports by Domestic Operations and about
        Foreign Operations

   Financial information about exports by domestic operations and about
   foreign operations is summarized in Note 15 to Consolidated Financial
   Statements in the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
   incorporated herein by reference.




                                       22PAGE

   (e)  Executive Officers of the Registrant

                                       Present Title (Year First
   Name                          Age   Became Executive Officer)
   ---------------------------   ---   --------------------------------------

   George N. Hatsopoulos(1)      69   Chairman of the Board, President, Chief
                                       Executive Officer, and Director (1956)
   John N. Hatsopoulos(1)        61   Executive Vice President and Chief
                                       Financial Officer (1968)
   Robert C. Howard              65   Executive Vice President (1968)
   Peter G. Pantazelos           65   Executive Vice President (1968)
   Arvin H. Smith                66   Executive Vice President (1983)
   William A. Rainville          54   Senior Vice President (1993)
   John W. Wood Jr.              52   Senior Vice President (1995)
   Paul F. Kelleher              53   Vice President, Finance and
                                       Administration (1982)

   (1) George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos are brothers.

   Each executive officer serves until his successor is chosen or appointed
   and qualified or until earlier resignation, death, or removal. All
   executive officers, except Messrs. Rainville and Wood, have held comparable
   positions with the Company for at least the last five years. Mr. Rainville
   has been a Senior Vice President of the Company since 1993 and was a Vice
   President of the Company from 1986 to 1993. Mr. Wood has been President and
   Chief Executive Officer of Thermedics Inc. since 1984 and was a Vice
   President of the Company from 1994 to 1995, prior to becoming a Senior Vice
   President of the Company in 1995.


   Item 2.  Properties

   The location and general character of the Company's principal properties by
   industry segment as of December 30, 1995, are as follows:

   Instruments

   The Company owns approximately 1,446,000 square feet of office,
   engineering, laboratory, and production space, principally in California,
   Colorado, Wisconsin, Germany, and England, and leases approximately
   1,596,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production
   space principally in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Ohio, Texas,
   Wisconsin, and England, under leases expiring from 1996 to 2017.

   Alternative-energy Systems

   The Company owns approximately 358,000 square feet of office, engineering,
   and production space, principally in Pennsylvania and England, and leases
   approximately 320,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and
   production space principally in Illinois and Michigan, under leases
   expiring from 1996 to 2017.

                                       23PAGE

   The Company operates four independent power plants in California, Maine,
   and New Hampshire, under leases expiring from 2000 to 2010. The Company
   owns three independent power plants in New Hampshire and California and a
   waste-recycling facility in California.

   Process Equipment

   The Company owns approximately 1,160,000 square feet of office, laboratory,
   and production space, principally in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York,
   France, and England, and leases approximately 308,000 square feet of
   office, engineering, and production space principally in Michigan and
   Wisconsin, under leases expiring from 1996 to 2004.

   Biomedical Products

   The Company owns approximately 248,000 square feet of office and production
   space in California, Connecticut, and New Jersey, and leases approximately
   587,000 square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production
   space in California, Illinois, New York, and Texas, under leases expiring
   from 1996 to 2009.

   Environmental Services

   The Company owns approximately 835,000 square feet of office, laboratory,
   and production space, principally in California, Pennsylvania, Minnesota,
   and the Netherlands, and leases approximately 540,000 square feet of
   office, engineering, laboratory, and production space principally in
   California, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Mexico, and Pennsylvania,
   under leases expiring from 1996 to 2008.

   The Company owns approximately 16 acres of land from which it provides
   soil-remediation and fluid-recycling services in Arizona and Washington and
   leases approximately 96 acres of land from which it provides soil-recycling
   services in Maryland and South Carolina.

   Advanced Technologies and Corporate Headquarters

   The Company owns approximately 190,000 square feet of office space in
   Massachusetts and New York, and leases approximately 1,119,000 square feet
   of office, engineering, and laboratory space principally in Alabama,
   California, Florida, Massachusetts, and Minnesota, under leases expiring
   from 1996 to 2008.

   The Company believes that its facilities are in good condition and are
   suitable and adequate to meet its current needs, and that suitable
   replacements are available on commercially reasonable terms for any leases
   that expire in 1996 in the event that the Company is unable to renew such
   leases on reasonable terms.


                                       24PAGE

   Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   The Company has participated in the operation of the Dade County Downtown
   Government Center cogeneration facility in Miami, Florida, through a 50/50
   joint venture of subsidiaries of the Company and Rolls-Royce, Inc. This
   facility and the joint venture are involved in regulatory and other legal
   proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Florida Public
   Service Commission and in court. See the information pertaining to this
   matter in Note 7 to Consolidated Financial Statements, and under the
   caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
   Results of Operations," in the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to
   Shareholders (filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K),
   which information is incorporated herein by reference.

   Certain subsidiaries of the Company have been notified that the U.S.
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined that a release or a
   substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance, as defined in the
   Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980
   (CERCLA or the Superfund law), occurred at sites to which chemical or other
   wastes generated by the manufacturing operations of these companies may
   have been sent. These notifications generally also allege that these
   companies may be potentially responsible parties with respect to the
   remedial actions needed to control or clean up any such releases. Under
   CERCLA, responsible parties can include current and previous owners of the
   site, generators of hazardous substances disposed of at the site, and
   transporters of hazardous substances to the site. Each responsible party
   can be jointly and severally liable, without regard to fault or negligence,
   for all costs associated with site remediation. In each instance the
   Company believes that it is one of several companies that received such
   notification and who may likewise be held liable for any such remedial
   costs.

   The Company is also involved in situations under state environmental laws
   with respect to certain other sites where remediation may be required. The
   Company is conducting investigative or remediation activities at these
   sites pursuant to arrangements with state environmental agencies.

   The Company evaluates its potential liability as a responsible party for
   these environmental matters on an ongoing basis subject to factors such as
   the estimated remediation costs, the nature and duration of the Company's
   involvement with the site, the financial strength of other potentially
   responsible parties, and the availability of indemnification from previous
   owners of acquired businesses. Estimated liabilities are accrued in
   accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,
   "Accounting for Contingencies." To date, the Company has not incurred any
   significant liability with respect to any of these sites and anticipates
   that future liabilities related to sites where the Company is currently a
   potentially responsible party or is otherwise conducting investigative or
   remediation activities, will not have a material adverse effect on its
   business, results of operations, or financial position.


   Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   Not applicable.
                                       25PAGE

                                     PART II


   Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
           Matters

   Information concerning the market and market price for the Registrant's
   common stock, $1.00 par value, and related matters, is included under the
   sections labeled "Common Stock Market Information" and "Dividend Policy" in
   the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
   herein by reference.


   Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   The information required under this item is included under the sections
   "Ten Year Financial Summary" and "Dividend Policy" in the Registrant's 1995
   Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.


   Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations

   The information required under this item is included under the heading
   "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
   Operations" in the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
   incorporated herein by reference.


   Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   The Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 30, 1995,
   are included in the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
   incorporated herein by reference.


   Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosures

   Not Applicable.








                                       26PAGE

                                    PART III


   Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The information concerning directors required under this item is
   incorporated herein by reference from the material contained under the
   caption "Election of Directors" in the Registrant's definitive proxy
   statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant
   to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
   year. The information concerning delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
   Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the material
   contained under the heading "Disclosure of Certain Late Filings" under the
   caption "Stock Ownership" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to
   be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation
   14A, not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


   Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Executive
   Compensation" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed
   with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not
   later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


   Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Stock Ownership"
   in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later
   than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.


   Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   The information required under this item is incorporated herein by
   reference from the material contained under the caption "Relationship with
   Affiliates" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with
   the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not
   later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.







                                       27PAGE

                                     PART IV


   Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

   (a), (d)  Financial Statements and Schedules

             (1)  The financial statements set forth in the list below are
                  filed as part of this Report.
             (2)  The financial statement schedule set forth in the list below
                  is filed as part of this Report.
             (3)  Exhibits filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference
                  are set forth in Item 14(c) below.

             List of Financial Statements and Schedules Referenced in this
             Item 14

             Information incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 filed
             herewith:

                  Consolidated Statement of Income
                  Consolidated Balance Sheet
                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                  Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Report of Independent Public Accountants

             Financial Schedule included herewith:

             Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

             All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
             or not required, or because the required information is shown
             either in the financial statements or in the notes thereto.

   (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

        The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 28, 1995
   announcing that it had entered into an agreement to sell its 4 1/4%
   convertible subordinated debentures due 2003.

   (c)  Exhibits

        See Exhibit Index on the page immediately preceding exhibits.







                                       28PAGE

                                   SIGNATURES

 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
 Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
 behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

 Date: March 11, 1996

                                         THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION

                                         By: George N. Hatsopoulos
                                             ---------------------
                                             George N. Hatsopoulos
                                             President and Chief Executive
                                             Officer

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
 report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
 Registrant and in the capacities indicated, as of March 11, 1996.

 Signature                               Title
 ---------                               -----

 By: George N. Hatsopoulos               President, Chief Executive Officer,
     -----------------------------        Chairman of the Board and Director
     George N. Hatsopoulos                

 By: John N. Hatsopoulos                 Executive Vice President and Chief
     -----------------------------        Financial Officer
     John N. Hatsopoulos                  

 By: Paul F. Kelleher                    Vice President, Finance and Adminis-
     -----------------------------        tration (Chief Accounting officer)
     Paul F. Kelleher                     

 By: John M. Albertine                   Director
     -----------------------------
     John M. Albertine

 By: Peter O. Crisp                      Director
     -----------------------------
     Peter O. Crisp

 By: Elias P. Gyftopoulos                Director
     -----------------------------
     Elias P. Gyftopoulos

 By: Frank Jungers                       Director
     -----------------------------
     Frank Jungers

 By: Robert A. McCabe                    Director
     -----------------------------
     Robert A. McCabe

 By: Frank E. Morris                     Director
     -----------------------------
     Frank E. Morris

 By: Donald E. Noble                     Director
     -----------------------------
     Donald E. Noble

 By: Hutham S. Olayan                    Director
     -----------------------------
     Hutham S. Olayan

 By: Roger D. Wellington                 Director
     -----------------------------
     Roger D. Wellington
                                       29PAGE

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants
                    ----------------------------------------


   To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
   Thermo Electron Corporation:

        We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Thermo
   Electron Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by
   reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated
   February 15, 1996 (except with respect to the matters discussed in Note 16
   as to which the date is March 1, 1996). Our audits were made for the
   purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
   schedule listed in Item 14 on page 28 is the responsibility of the
   Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
   consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the
   auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic consolidated
   financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material
   respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to
   the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.



                                                Arthur Andersen LLP



   Boston, Massachusetts
   February 15, 1996











                                       30PAGE

   SCHEDULE II


                           Thermo Electron Corporation

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)


                          Year Ended December 30, 1995

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Allowance for
     Doubtful
     Accounts     $21,664   $ 5,473   $ 6,886   $   420   $(6,422)  $28,021
   ========================================================================


                          Year Ended December 31, 1994

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Allowance for
     Doubtful
     Accounts     $14,174   $ 4,225   $ 7,646   $   268   $(4,649)  $21,664
   ========================================================================


                           Year Ended January 1, 1994

                 Balance,   Charged
                   Begin-  to Costs            Accounts  Accounts   Balance,
                  ning of       and              Recov-   Written    End of
                     Year  Expenses  Other(a)      ered       Off      Year
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Allowance for
    Doubtful
    Accounts      $11,341   $ 2,720   $ 1,532   $ 1,961   $(3,380)  $14,174
   ========================================================================

   (a)  Allowances of businesses acquired during the year as described in Note
        3 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1995 Annual
        Report to Shareholders.
                                       31PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

      2.1       Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement among the
                 Registrant, Thermo Instrument Corporation and Fisons
                 plc dated November 1, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 2.3 to
                 Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 and Exhibit 2 to
                 Thermo Instrument's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                 the quarter ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-9786]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). Pursuant to Item
                 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, schedules to this
                 Agreement have been omitted. The Company hereby
                 undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of such
                 schedules to the Commission upon request.

      3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
                 Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3(i) to the
                 Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                 quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

      3.2       By-laws of the Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit
                 3.2 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

      4.1       Fiscal Agency Agreement dated July 29, 1992 between the
                 Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to the
                 Registrant's 4 5/8% Senior Convertible Debentures due
                 1997 (filed as Exhibit 19 to the Registrant's Quarterly
                 Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 1992
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

                Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of April 15, 1994
                 between the Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to
                 the Registrant's 5% Senior Convertible Debentures due
                 2001 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's
                 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                 April 2, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein
                 by reference).

                Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of January 3, 1996
                 between the Registrant and Chemical Bank pertaining to
                 the Registrant's 4 1/4% Subordinated Convertible
                 Debentures due 2003.

                The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item
                 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, to furnish to the
                 Commission upon request, a copy of each instrument with
                 respect to other long-term debt of the Registrant or
                 its consolidated subsidiaries.

                                       32PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

      4.2       Rights Agreement dated as of January 19, 1996 between
                 the Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston,
                 which includes as Exhibit A the Form of Certificate of
                 Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights
                 Certificate, and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights to
                 Purchase Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 1 to the
                 Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
                 declared effective by the Commission on January 31,
                 1996 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.1       Thermo Electron Corporate Charter as amended and
                 restated effective January 3, 1993 (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.2       Form of Severance Benefit Agreement with officers
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.3       Form of Indemnification Agreement with directors and
                 officers (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
                 herein by reference).

     10.4       Loan and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December
                 1, 1991 among North County Resource Recovery
                 Associates; Union Bank of Switzerland; National
                 Westminster Bank PLC and Banque Paribas, New York
                 Branch, as lead managers; Credit Local de France as
                 co-lead manager; and Union Bank of Switzerland as
                 issuing bank and as agent (filed as Exhibit 10.39 to
                 the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.5       Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement dated as
                 of December 31, 1993 among Chemical Trust Company of
                 California as Owner Trustee; Delano Energy Company
                 Inc.; ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, for itself and
                 as Agent; The First National Bank of Boston, as
                 Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Societe
                 Generale, as Co-agent; and BayBank, as Lead Manager
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).
                                       33PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.6       Amended and Restated Participation Agreement dated as
                 of December 31, 1991 among Delano Energy Company Inc.;
                 Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy
                 Systems Corporation); Chemical Trust Company of
                 California, as Owner Trustee; ABN AMRO Bank N.V.,
                 Boston Branch, as Co-agent; Bank of Montreal, as
                 Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as Co-agent; Society
                 Generale, as Co-agent; BayBank, as Lead Manager; and
                 ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Island Branch, and joined in
                 by the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.7       Turnkey Engineering, Procurement, Construction and
                 Initial Operation Agreement for a deinking pulp
                 facility dated as of November 1, 1994 between the
                 Registrant, as contractor, and Great Lakes Pulp
                 Partners I, L.P., as owner (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to
                 the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). Pursuant to Item
                 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, schedules to this
                 Agreement have been omitted. The Company hereby
                 undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of such
                 schedules to the Commission upon request.

   10.8 - 10.20 Reserved.

     10.21      Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                 Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's Registration Statement
                 on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in
                 the aggregate under this plan and the Registrant's
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 9,035,156 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                 1984 and 1986, share decrease approved in 1989, and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986, October
                 1993 and May 1995).

     10.22      Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed
                 as Exhibit 4(e) to the Registrant's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Plan amended in
                 1984 to extend expiration date to December 14, 1994;
                 maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Registrant's Incentive Stock
                 Option Plan is 9,035,156 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases approved in 1984 and 1986,
                 share decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock
                 splits effected in October 1986, October 1993 and May
                 1995).
                                       34PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.23      Deferred Compensation for Directors of the Registrant
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 452,812 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1986 and 1992 and 3-for-2 stock
                 splits effected in October 1986, October 1993 and May
                 1995).

     10.24      Equity Incentive Plan of the Registrant (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 1994 [File No.
                 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Plan
                 amended in 1989 to restrict exercise price for SEC
                 reporting persons to not less than 50% of fair market
                 value or par value; maximum number of shares issuable
                 is 7,050,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1993 and May
                 1995 and share increase approved in 1994).

     10.25      Amended and Restated Directors' Stock Option Plan of
                 the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.25 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.26      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4 to a
                 Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermedics [Reg.
                 No. 2-93747] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable is 450,000 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 1988, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January 1985,
                 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985, and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).

     10.27      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                 Inc. (formerly Thermo Environmental Corporation)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(c)
                 to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 of Thermo
                 Instrument [Reg. No. 33-8034] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 421,875 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2
                 stock splits effected in July 1993 and April 1995 and
                 5-for-4 stock split effected in December 1995).

                                       35PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.28      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument Systems
                 Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No.
                 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable is 600,285 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in 1988,
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in January 1988, July
                 1993 and April 1995 and 5-for-4 stock split effected in
                 December 1995).

     10.29      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo TerraTech Inc.
                 (formerly Thermo Process Systems Inc.) Nonqualified
                 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 108,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect 6-for-5 stock splits effected in July 1988 and
                 March 1989 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                 September 1989).

     10.30      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Power Corporation
                 (formerly Tecogen Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Amended in September 1995 to extend the
                 plan expiration date to December 31, 2005).

     10.31      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Cardiosystems Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.11
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable is 130,500 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increases approved in 1990 and 1992,
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in January 1990, 5-for-4
                 stock split effected in May 1990, and 2-for-1 stock
                 split effected in November 1993).

     10.32      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Ecotek Corporation
                 (formerly Thermo Energy Systems Corporation)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.12
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

                                       36PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.33      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoTrex Corporation
                (formerly Thermo Electron Technologies Corporation)
                Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13
                to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002]
                and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                of shares issuable is 180,000 shares, after adjustment
                to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                October 1993).

     10.34      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibertek Inc.
                Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14
                to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 28, 1991 [File No. 1-8002]
                and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                of shares issuable is 600,000 shares, after adjustment
                to reflect 2-for-1 stock split effected in September
                1992 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in September
                1995).

     10.35      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Voltek Corp.
                 (formerly Universal Voltronics Corp.) Nonqualified
                 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
                 Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 57,500 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected in November 1993
                 and share increase approved in September 1995).

     10.36      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo BioAnalysis
                 Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.31 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File
                 No. 1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.37      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLyte Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.32
                 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.38      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Remediation Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.33
                 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

                                       37PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.39      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoSpectra Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.34
                 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.40      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoLase Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.35
                 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10573]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.41      Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoQuest Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.41
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.42      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Optek Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.42
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.43      Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Sentron Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.43
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.44      Thermo Electron Corporation - Trex Medical Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.44
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.45      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy
                 Systems Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo Ecotek
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 900,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 December 1993).


                                       38PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.46      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Energy Systems
                 Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
                 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo Ecotek
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 900,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 December 1993).

     10.47      Thermo Ecotek Corporation (formerly Thermo Energy
                 Systems Corporation) Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.39 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.48      Thermedics Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10(d) to Thermedics' Registration Statement on
                 Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermedics
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 1,931,923 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                 1986 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January
                 1985, 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985
                 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).

     10.49      Thermedics Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermedics' Registration Statement
                 on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and incorporated herein
                 by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in
                 the aggregate under this plan and the Thermedics
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,931,923 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1986
                 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in January 1985,
                 4-for-3 stock split effected in September 1985 and
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986 and
                 November 1993).

     10.50      Thermedics Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated May 10, 1993 of
                 Thermedics [File No. 1-9567] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
                 1,500,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2
                 stock split effected in November 1993).

     10.51      Thermedics Inc. - Thermo Sentron Inc. Nonqualified
                 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.51 to Thermo
                 Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).
                                       39PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.52      Thermedics Inc. - Thermedics Detection Inc.
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.20
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.53       Thermedics Detection Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.69 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form
                 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No.
                 1-9786] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.54      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Thermo Cardiosystems'
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-25144]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Cardiosystems Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 is 1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split effected
                 in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split effected in May
                 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split effected in November
                 1993).

     10.55      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Thermo Cardiosystems'
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-25144]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Cardiosystems Incentive Stock Option Plan is
                 1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split effected
                 in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split effected in May
                 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split effected in November
                 1993).

     10.56      Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.46 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.57      Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
                 Corp.) 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14
                 to Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended June 30, 1985 [File No. 0-8245] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 200,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect 1-for-3 reverse stock split effected in
                 November 1992 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                 November 1993).
                                       40PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.58      Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
                 Corp.) 1990 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
                 Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 [File No. 1-10574] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 400,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases in 1993 and 1994, 1-for-3
                 reverse stock split effected in November 1992 and
                 3-for-2 stock split effected in November 1993).

     10.59      Thermo Voltek Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.49 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.60      Thermo Sentron Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.57 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995
                 [File No. 1-10114] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.61      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Incentive Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(c) to Thermo Instrument's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6762]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is
                 2,812,500 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1990, 3-for-2 stock splits
                 effected in January 1988, July 1993 and April 1995 and
                 5-for-4 stock split effected in December 1995).

     10.62      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock
                 Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo
                 Instrument's Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg.
                 No. 33-6762] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Thermo Instrument Incentive
                 Stock Option Plan is 2,812,500 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increase approved in 1990, 3-for-2
                 stock splits effected in January 1988, July 1993 and
                 April 1995 and 5-for-4 stock split effected in December
                 1995).

     10.63      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
                 (filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated April
                 27, 1993 of Thermo Instrument [File No. 1-9786] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 4,031,250 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increase approved in December 1993,
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in July 1993 and April
                 1995 and 5-for-4 stock split effected in December
                 1995).
                                       41PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
  
   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.64      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
                 Environmental Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo Environmental's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-329]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument (formerly Thermo Environmental)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 1,160,156 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increase approved in
                 1987, 3-for-2 stock splits effected in July 1993 and
                 April 1995 and 5-for-4 stock split effected in December
                 1995).

     10.65      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
                 Environmental Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermo Environmental's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-329]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the Thermo Instrument (formerly Thermo Environmental)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,160,156 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increase approved in 1987,
                 3-for-2 stock splits effected in July 1993 and April
                 1995 and 5-for-4 stock split effected in December
                 1995).

     10.66      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. - ThermoSpectra Corporation
                Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.51 to
                Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended December 31, 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and
                incorporated herein by reference).

     10.67      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. - Thermo BioAnalysis
                Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                10.64 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114]
                and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.68      Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. - ThermoQuest Corporation
                Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.65 to
                Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and
                incorporated herein by reference).

     10.69      ThermoSpectra Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                Exhibit 10.52 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 [File No.
                1-9786] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.70      Thermo BioAnalysis Corporation Equity Incentive Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10.67 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                 30, 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).
                                       42PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.71      Thermo Optek Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.68 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
                 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.72      ThermoQuest Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.69 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995
                 [File No. 1-10114] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.73      ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
                 Technologies Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to ThermoTrex's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-40972] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoTrex Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is
                 1,945,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1992 and 1993 and 3-for-2 stock
                 split effected in October 1993).

     10.74      ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
                 Technologies Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to ThermoTrex's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-40972]
                 and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
                 of shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoTrex Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,945,000
                 shares, after adjustment to reflect share increases
                 approved in 1992 and 1993 and 3-for-2 stock split
                 effected in October 1993).

     10.75      ThermoTrex Corporation - ThermoLase Corporation
                 (formerly ThermoLase Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option
                 Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.53 to ThermoTrex's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and incorporated
                 herein by reference).

     10.76      ThermoTrex Corporation - Trex Medical Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.73
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).



                                       43PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
 
   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.77      ThermoLase Corporation (formerly ThermoLase Inc.)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.55 to
                 ThermoTrex's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                 year ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable in the aggregate under this plan and
                 the ThermoLase Nonqualified stock option plan is
                 2,800,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increase approved in 1993 and 2-for-1 stock splits
                 effected in March 1994 and June 1995).

     10.78      ThermoLase Corporation (formerly ThermoLase Inc.)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.54
                 to ThermoTrex Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994 [File No.
                 1-10791] and incorporated herein by reference) (Maximum
                 number of shares issuable in the aggregate under this
                 plan and the ThermoLase Incentive Stock Option Plan is
                 2,800,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
                 increases approved in 1993 and 2-for-1 stock splits
                 effected in March 1994 and June 1995).

     10.79      ThermoLase Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.81 to Thermo TerraTech's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 1995 [File
                 No. 1-9549] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.80      Trex Medical Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.77 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30,
                 1995 [File No. 1-10114] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.81      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10(k) to Thermo Fibertek's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-51172] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     10.82      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
                 (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to Thermo Fibertek's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-51172]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.83      Thermo Fibertek Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.60 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report on
                 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

                                    44PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.84      Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed as
                 Exhibit 10(h) to Thermo Power's Quarterly Report on
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1993 [File No.
                 1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Thermo Power Nonqualified Stock
                 Option Plan is 950,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases approved in 1990, 1992 and
                 1993).

     10.85      Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed as
                 Exhibit 10(i) to Thermo Power's Quarterly Report on
                 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1993 [File No.
                 1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference).
                 (Maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate
                 under this plan and the Thermo Power Incentive Stock
                 Option Plan is 950,000 shares, after adjustment to
                 reflect share increases approved in 1990, 1992 and
                 1993).

     10.86      Thermo Power Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed
                 as Exhibit 10.63 to Thermo Instrument's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                 1994 [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
                 reference).

     10.87      Thermo Power Corporation - ThermoLyte Corporation
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.84
                 to Thermo Cardiosystems' Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                 the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10114] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.88       ThermoLyte Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.71 to Thermo Power's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 [File No.
                 1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.89      Thermo TerraTech Inc. (formerly Thermo Process Systems
                 Inc.) Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                 10(h) to Thermo TerraTech's Registration Statement on
                 Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6763] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo TerraTech
                 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan is 1,850,000 shares,
                 after adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
                 1987, 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5 stock splits effected in
                 July 1988 and March 1989 and 3-for-2 stock split
                 effected in September 1989).


                                       45PAGE

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
  
   Exhibit
   Number       Description of Exhibit                                   Page
   ----------   -------------------------------------------------------  ----

     10.90      Thermo TerraTech Inc. (formerly Thermo Process Systems
                 Inc.) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
                 10(i) to Thermo TerraTech's Registration Statement on
                 Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-6763] and incorporated herein by
                 reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable in the
                 aggregate under this plan and the Thermo TerraTech
                 Incentive Stock Option Plan is 1,850,000 shares, after
                 adjustment to reflect share increases approved in 1987,
                 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5 stock splits effected in July
                 1988 and March 1989 and 3-for-2 stock split effected in
                 September 1989).

     10.91      Thermo TerraTech Inc. (formerly Thermo Process Systems
                 Inc.) Equity Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.63 to
                 Thermedics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                 ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-9567] and
                 incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number of
                 shares issuable is 1,750,000 shares, after adjustment
                 to reflect share increased approved in 1994).

     10.92      Thermo TerraTech Inc. (formerly Thermo Process Systems
                 Inc.) - Thermo Remediation Inc. Nonqualified Stock
                 Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to Thermo
                 TerraTech's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                 fiscal quarter ended January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-9549]
                 and incorporated herein by reference).

     10.93      Thermo Remediation Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
                 Exhibit 10.7 to Thermo Remediation's Registration
                 Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-70544] and
                 incorporated herein by reference).

     11         Computation of earnings per share.

     13         Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
                 December 30, 1995 (only those portions incorporated
                 herein by reference).

     21         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23         Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

     27         Financial Data Schedule.


