
10-K
10K-96


                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                   
                        Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   
                               FORM 10-K
                                   
           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                  THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended October 28, 1995, Commission File No. 1-2402

                       HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                          41-0319970

(State or other Jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)
                  1 Hormel Place
                Austin, Minnesota            55912-3680     

     (Address of principal executive offices)(Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (507) 437-5737

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                      Name of Each Exchange on   
     Title of Each Class                  Which Registered  


Common Stock, $.1172 Par Value        New York Stock Exchange    

                                
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:

                                 None

                           (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to  be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X        No_____

State the  aggregate market  value of  the voting  stock held  by  non-
affiliates of the registrant as of December 1, 1995.

     Common Stock - $1,063,358,863


Indicate the  number of  shares outstanding  of each  of  the  issuer's
classes of  common stock,  as of the latest practicable date covered by
this report.

     Common Stock,  $.1172 Par  Value-76,715,531 shares  at December 1,

     Common Stock  Non-Voting, $.01  Par Value-0  shares at December 1,


                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of  the Annual Stockholders' Report for the year ended October
28, 1995,  are incorporated by reference into Part II and included as a
separate section in the electronic filing to the SEC.

Portions  of  the  proxy  statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the
Stockholders to be held January 30, 1996, are incorporated by reference
into Part  II and  included as  a separate  section in  the  electronic
filing to the SEC.
PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

General Development of Business


     (a)  Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation, was founded
          by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota as George A.
          Hormel &  Company. The Company started as a processor of meat
          and food products and continues in this line of business. The
          Company name  was changed  to  Hormel  Foods  Corporation  on
          January 31,  1995. The parent company is primarily engaged in
          the production of a variety of meat and food products and the
          marketing of  those products  throughout the  United  States.
          Although pork  remains the  major  raw  material  for  Hormel
          products, the  Company has  emphasized for  several years the
          manufacture and  distribution of  branded, consumer  packaged
          items rather  than the  commodity fresh meat business closely
          associated  with  the  industry  in  the  past.  New  product
          introductions the past few years have emphasized a variety of
          branded turkey  products produced and sold under the Jennie-O
          label and  the fast growing ethnic food market with Chi-Chi's
          line of  Mexican foods,  House of  Tsang oriental  sauces and
          food products,  and Mediterranean  food  products  under  the
          Peloponnese and Melting Pot labels.
          
          The Company's  larger subsidiaries  include  Jennie-O  Foods,
          Inc.; Dubuque Foods, Inc.; Farm Fresh Catfish Company; Hormel
          Foods  International   Corporation  and  Vista  International
          Packaging, Inc.  Jennie-O, a  Willmar, Minnesota based turkey
          processor, was  acquired in  December 1986.  Jennie-O markets
          its products  nationwide through  its  own  sales  force  and
          brokers, providing the Company with a significant presence in
          this important, and growing segment of the industry.
          
          Dubuque Foods,  Inc. formerly  named FDL  Marketing, Inc. was
          formed in 1985 to be the exclusive marketer of the production
          of FDL  Foods, Inc., a Dubuque, Iowa, meat packer. In July of
          1993, the  Company acquired through two subsidiaries, Dubuque
          Foods, Inc. and Rochelle Foods, Inc., a portion of the assets
          of FDL Foods. Dubuque Foods acquired the FDL Foods brands and
          trademarks.   Rochelle   Foods   acquired   the   FDL   Foods
          manufacturing operations at Rochelle, Illinois. FDL Foods has
          a co-packing agreement to produce product for Dubuque Foods.
          
          Farm Fresh Catfish Company, acquired in 1983, competes in the
          seafood protein  segment of  the food  industry.  Farm  Fresh
          raises,  slaughters   and  distributes  farm  raised  catfish
          primarily in  the southeastern  section of  the United States
          through a network of brokers.
          
          The Company  markets  its  products  internationally  through
          Hormel  Foods   International   Corporation.   Hormel   Foods
          International  has   been  increasing  its  presence  in  the
          international  marketplace   through   joint   ventures   and
          placement of personnel in strategic foreign locations.
          
          Joint ventures  have been  established in  Mexico, China, and
          Australia. Hormel International marketing and sales personnel
          have  been   located  in   Hong  Kong,  England,  Mexico  and
          Australia. Investment of personnel and capital in the foreign
          segment of  the business  is expected  to  continue  for  the
          foreseeable future.
          
          Vista International  Packaging, Inc. imports, customizes, and
          distributes, a  variety of natural and artificial casings for
          the meat and food processing industry.
          
          The  Company   has  not  been  involved  in  any  bankruptcy,
          receivership  or  similar  proceedings  during  its  history.
          Substantially all  of the  assets of  the Company  have  been
          acquired in the ordinary course of business.
          
          The Company had no significant change in the type of products
          produced or  services rendered, nor in the markets or methods
          of distribution since the beginning of the fiscal year.

Industry Segment


     (b)  Hormel Foods  Corporation is  engaged in  a  single  industry
          segment  "Meat  and  Food  Processing".  The  meat  and  food
          processing industry  is  very  competitive  with  respect  to
          price, marketing  and customer  service. In  addition to meat
          processing firms, the Company competes with consumer packaged
          food manufacturers  as well as seafood, poultry and vegetable
          protein processors.

Description of Business


     (c)  The principal  products of  the Company  are  meat  and  food
          products which  are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked
          and canned.
          
          The percentage  of total  revenues contributed  by classes of
          similar products  for the  last three  fiscal  years  of  the
          Company are as follows:

                                        Year Ended
                               October   October   October
                               28,1995   29,1994   30,1993

          Meat Products          54.4%    57.3%     57.0%
          Prepared Foods         28.0      26.0      26.9
          Poultry, Fish, Other   17.6      16.7      16.1


                                100.0%    100.0%    100.0%

                                             
          Meat Products  includes fresh  meats, sausages, hams, wieners
          and bacon.  Prepared Foods  products include  canned luncheon
          meats, shelf  stable microwaveable  entrees, stews,  chilies,
          hash, meat  spreads and  frozen processed  products. Jennie-O
          turkey and  Farm Fresh  catfish products  are included in the
          Poultry, Fish and Other category.
          
          Hormel Foods  has numerous  trademarks and  patents which are
          important to  the Company's  business. Some of the trademarks
          are  registered  and  some  are  not.  The  more  significant
          trademarks are:  HORMEL, BLACK  LABEL, BY  GEORGE,  CURE  81,
          CUREMASTER, DI  LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, FRANK 'N STUFF, HOMELAND,
          LAYOUT PACK,  LIGHT & LEAN, LIGHT & LEAN 97, LITTLE SIZZLERS,
          MARY KITCHEN, RANGE BRAND, ROSA GRANDE, SANDWICH MAKER, SPAM,
          WRANGLERS, TOP  SHELF, JENNIE-O,  FARM FRESH,  KID'S KITCHEN,
          FAST 'N  EASY, DUBUQUE, QUICK MEAL, OLD SMOKEHOUSE, and HOUSE
          OF TSANG. The Company holds 17 foreign and 24 U. S. patents.
          
          The Company for the past several years has been concentrating
          on processed,  consumer  branded  products  with  year  round
          demand to  minimize the  seasonal variation  experienced with
          commodity type products. Pork continues to be the primary raw
          material  for   Company  products   and  although  live  pork
          producers are moving toward larger and year round confinement
          operations, there is still a seasonal variation in the supply
          of fresh  pork materials.  The expanding  line  of  processed
          items has  reduced but  not  eliminated  the  sensitivity  of
          Company  results   to   raw   material   supply   and   price
          fluctuations.
          
          Quarterly results  for fiscal  1995 and  1994 are reported on
          page 36,  Note K  to the  financial statements  in the Annual
          Report to Stockholders for 1995.
          
          On October  28, 1995,  the Company had unused lines of credit
          of $5,000,000.  A fee  is paid  for the availability of fixed
          credit lines. The parent company has no long-term debt except
          for Industrial  Revenue Bonds  with  varying  maturities  and
          $13,390,000 of  promissory  notes  through  2001  secured  by
          limited  partnership  interests  in  the  federal  affordable
          housing program. There was no commercial paper outstanding at
          the end  of fiscal  1995. Financial resources and anticipated
          funds from  operations are considered adequate to meet normal
          operating cash requirements in 1996.
          
          The Company  has no  customers the loss of which would have a
          significant effect  on the  Company's business. During fiscal
          year 1995, no customer accounted for more than 5.1% of sales.
          Backlog orders  are not  significant due  to  the  perishable
          nature of  a large  portion of  the products  and orders  are
          accepted and shipped on a current basis.
          
          The Company  continues to  develop and introduce new products
          each year.  No  new  product  in  1995  required  a  material
          investment of  Company assets.  Improving and  developing new
          products is  the  responsibility  of  task  forces  including
          personnel   from   operations,   marketing,   administration,
          engineering,  and  research  and  development.  Research  and
          development expenditures  for fiscal  1995, 1994,  and  1993,
          respectively, were  $7,829,212,  $7,742,973  and  $6,904,764.
          There are  29 professional  employees engaged  in  full  time
          research, 11  in the  area of improving existing products and
          18 in developing new products.
          
          As of  October 28,  1995, the  Company had over 10,600 active
          employees.
          
          Livestock slaughtered  by the  parent company is purchased by
          Company buyers,  commission dealers,  sale barns and terminal
          markets located  principally in Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska and
          South Dakota.  The level  of pork  production in  the  United
          States has  an impact on Hormel's operations. Any significant
          decrease in  the supply of pork has an adverse effect because
          of higher  costs and  lower margins  coupled with  an  under-
          utilization of  Company facilities. A significant increase in
          the supply of pork normally results in lower costs and higher
          margins.  To   minimize  supply   variations   which   impact
          profitability the  live pork  industry is  rapidly moving  to
          very large,  vertically integrated,  year  round  confinement
          operations. The  Company, as well as its major competitors is
          analyzing options  that  will  allow  them  to  maximize  the
          benefits of reduced volatility in the supply of fresh pork.
          
          Products under  the Hormel label are sold in all 50 states by
          the parent  Company. Products  are sold  by approximately 540
          sales personnel operating in assigned territories coordinated
          from district  sales offices  located in  most of  the larger
          United States  cities, and  by approximately  450 brokers and
          distributors. Distribution  of products  to customers  is  by
          common carrier.
          
          The parent  Company has  a plant  at Fremont,  Nebraska, that
          slaughters livestock for processing. The slaughter facilities
          at the  Austin, Minnesota  plant are  leased to  Quality Pork
          Processors  of   Dallas,  Texas   under  a  custom  slaughter
          arrangement with  the Company.  A subsidiary, Rochelle Foods,
          Inc., Rochelle,  Illinois, also  provides  the  Company  with
          needed raw  materials and  product through its pork slaughter
          and processing operation.
          
          Facilities that  produce manufactured  items are  located  in
          Algona, Iowa;  Austin, Minnesota;  Beloit, Wisconsin; Aurora,
          Illinois; Davenport, Iowa; Fremont, Nebraska; Houston, Texas;
          Knoxville,   Iowa;   Oklahoma   City,   Oklahoma;   Stockton,
          California; Tucker,  Georgia;  and  Wichita,  Kansas.  Custom
          manufacturing for  Hormel is  performed by  several companies
          including  Owatonna  Canning  Company,  Owatonna,  Minnesota;
          Lakeside Packing  Company, Plainview,  Minnesota; and Western
          Steer Mom  and Pops of Claremont, North Carolina. The Company
          has under construction a processing plant and shipping center
          in Osceola, Iowa.

     JENNIE-O FOODS

     
          Jennie-O Foods,  Inc., a  Willmar,  Minnesota,  based  turkey
          processor,  has  turkey  raising,  slaughter  and  processing
          operations at  various locations  within Minnesota.  Jennie-O
          contracts with  turkey growers  to supplement  the turkeys it
          raises to  meet its raw material requirements for whole birds
          and processed  turkey products.  As part  of Jennie-O's  long
          term expansion  program, a new plant is under construction at
          Montevideo, Minnesota which will increase processing capacity
          substantially. The  plant is  expected to  begin operation in
          the summer of 1996.
          
          During 1995  Jennie-O exercised  its option  to purchase  the
          assets of  West Central  Turkeys,  Inc.  of  Pelican  Rapids,
          Minnesota. West Central Turkeys had been a co-packer of whole
          birds and processed turkey products for Jennie-O since 1992.


     HORMEL FOODS INTERNATIONAL

     
          Hormel Foods  International Corporation markets the Company's
          products in  international areas  including the  Philippines,
          Japan and  various European  countries. The  Company, through
          Hormel  Foods   International,  has   licensed  companies  to
          manufacture SPAM  luncheon meat  overseas on a royalty basis,
          principally Newforge  Foods Limited  in Great Britain. Hormel
          Foods International  owns Hormel  FSC, Inc.,  a foreign sales
          corporation, which  engages  in  export  related  activities.
          Hormel Foods  International has offices in Mexico, Hong Kong,
          Australia and  England to  increase the  sales and  marketing
          support in  these geographical  areas  of  the  international
          marketplace.  During   1995  joint   venture  agreements   to
          manufacture and  sell food  products in  China, Australia and
          Mexico were completed.
          
     FARM FRESH CATFISH

     
          Farm Fresh  Catfish Company operates slaughter and processing
          plants in  Arkansas and  Mississippi. Live fish are purchased
          from independent growers to supplement the supply provided by
          its own  farms. The  catfish business  continues to be a very
          competitive commodity oriented market segment.
          
     VISTA INTERNATIONAL PACKAGING

          
          Vista International  Packaging, Inc.,  a subsidiary of Hormel
          Foods International  was switched  to  a  subsidiary  of  the
          parent company  in 1995.  Vista is  a food  packaging company
          located in  Kenosha, Wisconsin which imports, customizes, and
          distributes, a  variety of natural and artificial casings for
          the meat and food processing industry.
          
     DUBUQUE FOODS

          
          Dubuque Foods,  Inc., formerly  called FDL  Marketing,  Inc.,
          purchased the  brands and  trademarks  of  FDL  Foods,  Inc.,
          Dubuque, Iowa, in July of 1993. FDL Foods produces product to
          Dubuque Foods'  specifications at  its  Dubuque,  Iowa  plant
          under a  five year co-packing agreement. In September of 1995
          Dubuque Foods  terminated, for  economic reasons, the portion
          of the  co-packing agreement with FDL Foods providing for the
          purchase of fresh pork. This substantially reduced the volume
          of product  provided by  FDL Foods to Dubuque and resulted in
          FDL Foods closing its remaining slaughter operations.
          
          FDL Foods  also sold  its Rochelle,  Illinois  slaughter  and
          processing operations  to  Rochelle  Foods,  Inc.,  a  sister
          subsidiary of  Dubuque Foods. Rochelle Foods produces product
          for Dubuque  Foods under  a co-packing  arrangement, however,
          following a transition period, it is anticipated that it will
          primarily produce  product for  Hormel Foods under the Hormel
          trademarks.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

     (d)
                                                                    Year
                                                                Which First
                                                                  Elected
          Name                Office                      Age     Officer  


          Joel W. Johnson     Chairman of the Board,       52       1991
                              President and Chief
                              Executive Officer

          Don J. Hodapp       Executive Vice President     57       1969
                              & Chief Financial Officer

          Gary J. Ray         Executive Vice President     49       1988

          James W. Cole       Group Vice President,        61       1990
                              Foodservice Group

          David N. Dickson    Group Vice President,        52       1989
                              International, and
                              Corporate Development

          Stanley E. Kerber   Group Vice President,        57       1977
                              Meat Products Group

          Robert F. Patterson Group Vice President,        55       1984
                              Prepared Foods Group

          Eric A. Brown       Senior Vice President,       49       1987
                              Meat Products Group
                                                                    Year
                                                                Which First
                                                                  Elected
          Name                Office                      Age     Officer  


          Richard W. Schlange Vice President and           60       1969
                              Controller

          Mahlon C. Schneider Vice President and           56       1990
                              General Counsel

          Richard A. Bross    Vice President,              44       1995
                              Grocery Products

          Forrest D. Dryden   Vice President, Research     52       1987
                              & Development Division

          Jerry C. Figenskau  Vice President, Specialty    55       1994
                              Products Division

          James A. Jorgenson  Vice President,              50       1990
                              Human Resources

          Gary C. Paxton      Vice President,              50       1992
                              Manufacturing

          Don L. Pohlman      Vice President,              59       1988
                              Foodservice Sales

          Kenneth P. Regner   Vice President,              58       1989
                              Engineering

          James N. Rieth      Vice President, Hormel       55       1981
                              and President
                              Jennie-O Foods, Inc.

          Robert A. Slavik    Vice President,              50       1993
                              Meat Products Sales

          Robert G. Wells     Vice President, Pork,        59       1982
                              Provisions and
                              Refineries

          Michael J. McCoy    Treasurer                    48       1994

          Thomas J. Leake     Corporate Secretary          50       1990

          No family relationship exists among the executive officers.
          
          All of the above executive officers have been employed by the
          Registrant in an officer capacity for more than the past five
          years except  Mr. Joel  W. Johnson,  Executive Vice President
          and General Manager of Oscar Mayer Foods until being employed
          by  the  Company  as  Executive  Vice  President,  Sales  and
          Marketing on  June 27,  1991, on July 27, 1992 he was elected
          President of  the Company,  and on September 30, 1993, he was
          elected Chief  Executive Officer,  on December 8, 1995 he was
          elected to  the additional post of Chairman of the Board; Mr.
          Gary Paxton,  Director Sausage  Production until November 19,
          1990 when  he was named Plant Manager of the Austin Plant, on
          January   28,   1992   he   was   elected   Vice   President,
          Manufacturing; Mr.  Robert A.  Slavik, Director Meat Products
          Sales until  January  26,  1993  when  he  was  elected  Vice
          President, Meat  Products  Sales;  Mr.  Jerry  C.  Figenskau,
          Director of  Marketing Services  until December 30, 1991 when
          he was named Director Specialty Products, on January 24, 1994
          he  was  elected  Vice  President,  Specialty  Products;  Mr.
          Richard A.  Bross, Director  of  Grocery  Products  Marketing
          until January  3, 1994  when he  was named General Manager of
          Grocery Products,  on January  30, 1995  he was  elected Vice
          President,  Grocery  Products;  Mr.  Michael  J.  McCoy  Vice
          President, Treasurer  of FDL Foods, Inc. until being employed
          by the  Company on  special assignment  Treasury Division  on
          October 3,  1994, on  November  21,  1994  he  was  appointed
          Assistant Treasurer  and on  January 1,  1996 he  was elected
          Treasurer.
          
          The executive  officers are  elected annually by the Board of
          Directors at  the first  meeting following the Annual Meeting
          of Stockholders.  Vacancies  may  be  filled  and  additional
          officers elected at any regular or special meeting.
          

Item 2. PROPERTIES

                                         Approximate
                                         Floor Space
                                       (Square Feet) Owned or 
          Expiration
          Location                      Unless Noted   Leased          Date
          
          
          Hormel Foods Corporation
          
          
          Slaughtering and
          
          Processing Plants
          
          
           Austin, Minnesota
             Slaughter                       212,000    Owned       (Leased
           Out)
             Processing                      912,000    Owned
           
           Fremont, Nebraska                 617,000    Owned
           
           Rochelle, Illinois                429,000    Owned
             (Rochelle Foods, Inc.)
           
          Processing Plants
          
          
           Algona, Iowa                      152,000    Owned
           Austin, Minnesota Annex            82,000    Owned
           Beloit, Wisconsin                 338,000    Owned
           Davenport, Iowa                   148,000    Owned
           Houston, Texas                     93,000    Owned
           Knoxville, Iowa                   130,000    Owned
           Oklahoma City, Oklahoma            56,000    Owned
           Osceola, Iowa                                Owned
             (Under construction)
           Ottumwa, Iowa                     135,000    Owned Closed
           Stockton, California              139,000    Owned
           Tucker, Georgia                   259,000    Owned
           Wichita, Kansas                    75,000    Owned
             (Dold Foods, Inc.)
           Long Prairie, Minnesota            78,000    Owned
             (Dan's Prize, Inc.)
           Aurora, Illinois                   70,000    Leased January
             (Creative Contract Packaging Corp.)
           Aurora, Illinois                   70,000    Owned
             (Herb-Ox Plant)
          
          Research and Development Center
          
          
           Austin, Minnesota                  56,000    Owned
          
          Corporate Offices
          
          
           Austin, Minnesota                 119,000    Owned
          
          Jennie-O Foods, Inc.
          
          
           Willmar, Minnesota
             Airport Plant location          282,000    Owned
           Willmar, Minnesota
             Benson Ave. Plant                79,000    Owned
           Melrose, Minnesota Plant          119,000    Owned
           Turkey farms - acres                7,815    Owned
           Henning, Minnesota                  5,200    Owned
             Feed Mill
           Atwater, Minnesota                 14,000    Owned
             Feed Mill
           Montevideo, Minnesota Plant                  Owned
             (Under construction)
           Pelican Rapids, Minnesota         185,000    Owned
             West Central Turkeys Plant
           
          Farm Fresh Catfish, Inc.
          
          
           Hollandale, Mississippi Plant      50,000    Owned
           Lake Village, Arkansas Plant       21,000    Owned
           Fish farms - water acres            3,198   Leased       Various
           
          Vista International Packaging, Inc.
          
          
           Kenosha, Wisconsin Plant           61,000    Owned

          Algona Food Equipment Company (AFECO)
          
          
           Algona, Iowa Plant                 45,000    Owned
          
          The Company  has major  expansion or  renovation projects  at
          Austin,  Minnesota,  Osceola,  Iowa,  Fremont,  Nebraska  and
          Jennie-O at Montevideo, Minnesota plants.
          
          The  Company  believes  its  operating  facilities  are  well
          maintained and  suitable for  current production volumes, and
          after  the   completion  of   the  expansion  and  renovation
          projects, for  all  volumes  which  are  anticipated  in  the
          foreseeable future.  During 1994  the Company  established  a
          reserve for  a probable  loss on  disposition of  the  closed
          facility at  Ottumwa, Iowa.  The sale of the Ottumwa facility
          is scheduled to close during the first quarter of 1996.


Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          
          During the  first quarter  of Fiscal  1996,  Farm  Fresh  and
          Hormel Foods settled for $7,500,000 an antitrust class-action
          lawsuit filed  in the  United States  District Court  for the
          Northern District  of Mississippi,  Delta division,  filed on
          February 7,  1992, on  behalf of all purchasers of catfish in
          the United  States from  1981 to  1990. Farm Fresh and Hormel
          Foods were two of several defendants in an alleged conspiracy
          to fix  prices of  all  farm-raised  catfish  products  among
          competing processors  of catfish.  While management  believes
          plantiffs' claims  are without merit, particularly since many
          of the events in question happened more than two years before
          Hormel Foods  formed Farm Fresh in 1983, in management's view
          continued defense  of the  case subjected the Company and its
          shareholders to  risk because  of the  potential size  of the
          claim and  the inherent uncertainty of commercial litigation.
          The Company decided to settle the lawsuits and eliminate this
          risk as  well as  the continuing  expense of  litigation. The
          settlement which  is not considered material on an annualized
          basis is  subject to the court's approval. Similar suits have
          been pending  in California  and Alabama  state courts  since
          1992 as well.
          

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          No matters  were submitted  to stockholders during the fourth
          quarter of the 1995 fiscal year.
PART II


Item 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

          Information about  Common  Stock  market  prices,  dividends,
          principal market of trade and number of stockholders on pages
          40 of  the Annual  Stockholders' Report  for the  year  ended
          October 28,  1995, is  incorporated herein  by reference. The
          Company's Common  Stock has been listed on the New York Stock
          Exchange since January 16, 1990.


Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

          Selected Financial  Data for  the ten years ended October 28,
          1995, on  pages 26  and 27 of the Annual Stockholders' Report
          for the  year ended  October 28, 1995, is incorporated herein
          by reference.


Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

          Management's Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial Condition
          and Results  of Operations  on pages  38 and 39 of the Annual
          Stockholders' Report  for the year ended October 28, 1995, is
          incorporated herein by reference.


Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          Consolidated  Financial   Statements,   including   unaudited
          quarterly  data,  on  pages  28  through  36  and  Report  of
          Independent Auditors  on page  37 of the Annual Stockholders'
          Report for  the year  ended October 28, 1995 are incorporated
          herein by reference.


Item 9.   DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          None.
          
                               PART III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          Information under "Election of Directors", contained on pages
          3 through  5 of the definitive proxy statement for the Annual
          Meeting of  Stockholders to  be held  January  30,  1996,  is
          incorporated herein by reference.

          Information concerning  Executive Officers  is set  forth  in
          Item 1(d)  of Part I pursuant to Instruction 3, Paragraph (b)
          of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.


Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          Information for  the  year  ended  October  28,  1995,  under
          "Executive  Compensation"   on  pages   8  through   13   and
          "Compensation of Directors" on page 5 of the definitive proxy
          statement for  the Annual  Meeting of Stockholders to be held
          January 30, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP   OF  CERTAIN   BENEFICIAL   OWNERS   AND
MANAGEMENT
          
          Ownership of  securities of the Company by certain beneficial
          owners and management for the year ended October 28, 1995, as
          set forth  on pages 6 and 7 of the definitive proxy statement
          for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 30,
          1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          Information under  "Other Information  Relating to Directors,
          Nominees, and  Executive Officers" for the year ended October
          28, 1995,  as set  forth on  page 14  of the definitive proxy
          statement for  the Annual  Meeting of Stockholders to be held
          January 30, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


                                PART IV


Item 14.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
          AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          
          (a)  (1) and  (2)-The response  to this portion of Item 14 is
            submitted as a separate section of this report.
          
            (3) -List  of Exhibits-The response to this portion of Item
            14 is submitted as a separate section of this report.
          
          (b)  The Company  filed  a  Form  8-K  on  October  26,  1995
            announcing earnings  for the  fiscal year  were expected to
            meet or  slightly exceed  last year's earnings per share of
            $1.54. The  anticipated  results  were  below  Wall  Street
            estimates which averaged $1.76 per share.
          
            The  Company   filed  a  Form  8-K  on  December  13,  1995
            announcing the  retirement of  Richard L. Knowlton from the
            Hormel  Foods   Corporation  Board  of  Directors.  Company
            President Joel  W. Johnson,  who succeeded  Mr. Knowlton as
            Chief Executive  Officer in  September 1993, was elected to
            the additional position of Chairman of the Board.
          
          (c)  The response  to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
            separate section of this report.
          
          (d)  The response  to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
            separate section of this report.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to  the requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act  of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                       HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

By/s/ Joel W. Johnson                          January 26, 1996

Joel W. Johnson, Chairman of the Board               Date
President and Chief Executive Officer                  

Pursuant to  the requirements  of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

                                    Chairman of the Board, President,
/s/ Joel W. Johnson       1/26/96   Chief   Executive    Officer    and
                                    Director
Joel W. Johnson             Date    (Principal Executive Officer)

                                    Executive Vice President
                                    and Chief Financial Officer
                                    and Director
/s/ Don J. Hodapp         1/26/96   (Principal Financial and
Don J. Hodapp               Date    Accounting Officer)

/s/ Gary J. Ray           1/26/96   Executive Vice President

Gary J. Ray                 Date    and Director

/s/ James W. Cole         1/26/96   Group Vice President

James W. Cole               Date    Foodservice Group and Director

                                    Group Vice President
                                    International and
/s/ David N. Dickson      1/26/96   Corporate Development
David N. Dickson            Date    and Director

/s/ Stanley E. Kerber     1/26/96   Group Vice President Meat

Stanley E. Kerber           Date    Products Group and Director

                                    Group Vice President
/s/ Robert F. Patterson   1/26/96   Prepared Foods Group
Robert F. Patterson         Date    and Director

/s/ John W. Allen         1/26/96   Director
John W. Allen               Date

/s/ William S. Davila     1/26/96   Director
William S. Davila           Date

/s/ Luella G. Goldberg    1/26/96   Director
Luella G. Goldberg          Date

/s/ Geraldine M. Joseph   1/26/96   Director
Geraldine M. Joseph         Date

/s/ Earl B. Olson         1/26/96   Director
Earl B. Olson               Date

/s/ Ray V. Rose           1/26/96   Director
Ray V. Rose                 Date

/s/ Dr. Robert R. Waller  1/26/96   Director
Dr. Robert R. Waller        Date

                                   
                      ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                                   
         ITEM 14 (a) (1), (2), AND (3) AND ITEM 14 (c) AND (d)
                                   
                     LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                                   
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                                   
                           LIST OF EXHIBITS
                                   
                      YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                   
                       HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
                                   
                           Austin, Minnesota

Item 14(a) (1), (2) and (3) and Item 14 (c) and (d)

LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

October 28, 1995


The  following   consolidated  financial  statements  of  Hormel  Foods
Corporation included  in the  Annual Report  of the  Registrant to  its
stockholders for  the year  ended October  28, 1995,  are  incorporated
herein by reference in Item 8 of Part II of this report:

Consolidated Statements  of Financial  Position-October  28,  1995  and
October 29, 1994.

Consolidated Statements  of Operations-Years  Ended October  28,  1995,
October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993.

Consolidated Statements  of Changes  in Stockholders'  Investment-Years
Ended October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993.

Consolidated Statements  of Cash  Flows-Years Ended  October 28,  1995,
October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993.

Notes to Financial Statements-October 28, 1995.

Report of Independent Auditors

The following  consolidated financial  statement  schedules  of  Hormel
Foods  Corporation  required  pursuant  to  Item  14(d)  are  submitted
herewith:

     Schedule II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves..F-3

All other  schedules for  which provision  is made  in  the  applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under  the  related  instructions  or  are  inapplicable,  and
therefore have been omitted.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES OMITTED

Condensed parent  company financial  statements of  the registrant  are
omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of Article 5 of Regulation S-X.
                   SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
AND RESERVES

                                      HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

                                       (Dollars in Thousands)

Note (1)-Uncollectible accounts written off.

Note (2)-Recoveries on accounts previously written off.

Note (3)-Reserve on records of Dan's Prize, Inc. at the date
consolidated into Hormel Foods Corporation.



LIST OF EXHIBITS

                     HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION


  Number  Description of Document

**        (3) A-1   Certification of Incorporation as amended to
date.
          (filed as Exhibit 3A-1 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
fiscal year ended October 27, 1990.)

**        (3) B-1   By-laws as amended to date (filed as Exhibit
3B-1 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          fiscal year ended October 30, 1993.)

  (4)     Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K,
copies of instruments defining
          the rights of holders of long-term debt are not filed.
The Company agrees to furnish a
          copy thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request.

  (9)     None.

  (10)    None.

  (11)    None.

  (12)    None.

**        (13) Pages 25 through 40 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for fiscal year ended October 28, 1995.

  (18)    None.

  (19)    None.

  (22)    None.

**        (23) Consent of Independent Auditors.

  (24)    None.

  (25)    None.

**        (27) Financial Data Schedule.

  (28)    None.

**        These Exhibits transmitted via EDGAR.



EXHIBIT (3) A-1


                CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                             OF

                  HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION


     (This Certificate  became effective  December 30, 1960,
upon filing  in the  office of  the Secretary  of  State  of
Delaware of  the  November  18,  1960  Agreement  of  Merger
between Geo. A. Hormel & Company and Hormel Incorporated.)

     FIRST:   The name  of this  corporation is HORMEL FOODS
CORPORATION.  (Amended 2-1-95)

     SECOND:   Its principal office in the State of Delaware
is located at 100 West Tenth Street, in the City of Wilming-
ton, County  of New  Castle, Delaware.  The name and address
of its  resident agent is the Corporation Trust Company, 100
West Tenth Street, Wilmington, Delaware.

     THIRD:   The nature of the business, or objects or pur-
poses to be transacted, promoted or carried on are to do any
or all  of the  things herein  mentioned as fully and to the
same extent as natural persons might or could do, and in any
part of the world, viz:

(a)   To manufacture,  buy and  in any manner acquire and to
     prepare for  market and  import, export,  sell and deal
     in, both at wholesale and retail and on its own account
     and on commission, all kinds of meats and meat products
     and all kinds of food and food products, and in connec-
     tion therewith to carry on the business of slaughtering
     livestock and poultry and to deal in and with all kinds
     of products  and by-products  arising therefrom; to own
     and operate  packing houses  and canning establishments
     and to  market, sell  and deal in and with all articles
     produced or handled in connection therewith; to acquire
     by purchase or lease and to sell, mortgage, own, manage
     and operate such real estate and such personal property
     as may be necessary or convenient in the conduct of its
     business; to  manufacture ice and to operate refrigera-
     tion plants,  to own and operate refrigerator and other
     cars, either  as owner  or lessee,  and generally to do
     all those  things which are incidental to the aforesaid
     business.

(b)   To buy,  or otherwise  acquire, sell, lease, mortgage,
     own, manage, and operate farms and plantations; to deal
     in the  products thereof;  and to transact all business
     incidental or appurtenant thereto.


(c)   To manufacture,  purchase, or  otherwise  acquire,  to
     hold, own,  mortgage, pledge,  sell, assign, and trans-
     fer, or otherwise dispose of, to invest, trade in, deal
     in and  deal with  goods, wares,  and  merchandise  and
     property of every class and description.

(d)   To acquire,  by purchase  or otherwise,  to own, hold,
     buy, sell,  convey, lease, mortgage or otherwise encum-
     ber real estate or other property, personal or mixed.

(e)   To acquire the good will, trademarks, rights and prop-
     erty, and  to undertake  the whole  or any  part of the
     business or  liabilities of  any person, firm, associa-
     tion or  corporation; and  to pay for the same in cash,
     the  stock  of  this  corporation,  bonds,  debentures,
     promissory notes,  or otherwise;  and to hold or in any
     manner to dispose of the whole or any part of the prop-
     erty so  purchased; to conduct in any lawful manner the
     whole or  any part  of the business so acquired; and to
     exercise all  the powers necessary or convenient in and
     about the conduct and management of such business.

(f)   To apply  for, obtain,  register, lease,  purchase, or
     otherwise to  acquire, and  to hold,  use, own, operate
     and introduce,  and to  sell, assign, or otherwise dis-
     pose of,  any trademarks,  trade names, patents, inven-
     tions, improvements  and processes  used in  connection
     with or  secured under  Letter  Patent  of  the  United
     States, or  elsewhere, or  otherwise: and to use, exer-
     cise, develop,  grant licenses in respect of, or other-
     wise turn  to account,  any such  trademarks,  patents,
     licenses, processes  and the  like or any such property
     or rights.

(g)   To enter into, perform and carry out contract of every
     kind with any person, firm, association or corporation,
     and to  draw, make,  accept, endorse, discount, execute
     and issue  promissory notes,  bills of  exchange,  war-
     rants, bonds, debentures and other negotiable or trans-
     ferable instruments  for any of the objects or purposes
     of the corporation, and to secure the same by mortgage,
     pledge, deed of trust, or otherwise.

(h)   To hold,  purchase  or  otherwise  acquire,  to  sell,
     assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose
     of, shares  of the  capital stock and bonds, debentures
     or other evidences of indebtedness created by any other
     corporation or  corporations,  and,  while  the  holder
     thereof, to  exercise all  the rights and privileges of
     ownership, including the right to vote thereon.

(i)   To purchase, hold, sell and transfer shares of its own
     capital stock;  provided that the corporation shall not
     use its  funds or  property for the purchase of its own


     shares of  capital stock  when such use would cause any
     impairment of  its capital,  and that shares of its own
     capital stock belonging to the corporation shall not be
     voted upon, directly or indirectly.

(j)  To negotiate policies of insurance, for its own benefit
     or for the benefit of others, upon the life or lives of
     any one or more of its officers or employees and to pay
     the premiums  thereon; to  cause or permit itself to be
     made the  beneficiary of existing policies of insurance
     on the life or lives of any one or more of its officers
     or  employees   and  thereafter  to  pay  the  premiums
     thereon; to  cause other  persons to  be made the bene-
     ficiaries of existing policies of insurance on the life
     or lives  of any one or more of its officers or employ-
     ees and  thereafter to pay the premiums thereon; and to
     pay the  premiums on existing policies of insurance, on
     the life or lives of any one or more of its officers or
     employees, in  which either  this  corporation  or  any
     other person  or persons is or are named as beneficiary
     or beneficiaries.

(k)   To do  any and all things set forth herein as objects,
     purposes, powers  or otherwise,  and to  do  all  other
     things which  corporations organized  under the laws of
     the State of Delaware may do, to the same extent and as
     fully as  natural persons  might do,  so far  as may be
     permitted  by  law;  provided,  however,  that  nothing
     herein contained shall be deemed to authorize this cor-
     poration to construct, hold, maintain or operate within
     the State of Delaware railroads, railways, telegraph or
     telephone lines,  or to  carry on within said State any
     public utility business.

(l)   In general,  to carry  on any  other business  in con-
     nection with the foregoing, and to have and to exercise
     all the powers conferred, now or hereafter, by the laws
     of Delaware  upon  this  corporation.    The  foregoing
     clauses shall  be construed both as objects and powers;
     and it  is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing
     enumeration of  specific powers  shall not  be held  to
     limit or restrict in any manner the powers of this cor-
     poration.

     FOURTH:   The total  number of shares of all classes of
stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is
280,000,000 shares, divided into three classes consisting of
200,000,000 shares  of Common  Stock, par  value $.1172  per
share ("Common  Stock"),  40,000,000  shares  of  Non-Voting
Common Stock,  par value  $.01 per share ("Non-Voting Common
Stock") and  40,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value
$.01 per share ("Preferred Stock").




Section A.  Preferred stock.

     The Board  of Directors  is authorized  at any time and
from time  to time, subject to any limitations prescribed by
law, to  provide for the issuance of the shares of Preferred
Stock in  one or  more series,  and by  filing a certificate
pursuant to  the applicable law of the State of Delaware, to
establish from  time to  time the number of shares to be in-
cluded in  each such  series, and  to fix  the  designation,
powers, preferences  and rights  of the  shares of each such
series and  any qualifications,  limitations or restrictions
thereof.  The number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock
may be  increased or  decreased (but not below the number of
shares thereof  then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of
the holders  of a  majority of  the Common  Stock, without a
vote of the holders of the Preferred Stock, or of any series
thereof, unless  a vote of any such holders is required pur-
suant to  the certificate  or certificates  establishing the
series of Preferred Stock.

Section B.  Common Stock.

     1.   Voting rights.

          Each holder  of record  of Common  Stock shall  he
entitled to  one (1)  vote on  all matters for each share of
Common Stock owned of record by such holder.

     2.   Dividends.

          Subject to  the rights of the holders of Preferred
Stock and  any other class or series of stock having a pref-
erence as  to dividends over the Common Stock then outstand-
ing, the  holders of  the Common  Stock shall be entitled to
receive, to  the extent  permitted by law, such dividends as
may be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors,
provided, however, that:

     (a)   No cash dividend or other distribution of assets,
rights, evidence of indebtedness or any other property shall
be declared,  paid or  made to  the holders  of Common Stock
unless a  cash dividend  or other  such distribution in like
kind and  equal per-share amount is simultaneously declared,
paid or  made to the holders of the Non-Voting Common Stock;
and that

     (b)  Stock dividends declared on the Common Stock shall
be payable solely in shares of Common Stock.  No stock divi-
dend shall  be declared or paid on the Common Stock unless a
stock dividend payable in shares of Non-Voting Common Stock,
proportionate on  a per-share  basis to  the dividend on the
Common Stock,  is simultaneously  declared and  paid on  the
Non-Voting Common Stock.



     3.   Liquidation.

          In the  event of the voluntary or involuntary liq-
uidation, dissolution,  distribution of assets or winding-up
of the  Corporation, after distribution in full of the pref-
erential amounts,  if any,  to be distributed to the holders
of shares  of the  Preferred Stock  and any  other class  or
series of  stock having  a preference as to liquidating dis-
tributions over  the Common Stock, the holders of the Common
Stock shall  be entitled  to share  ratably on  a  per-share
basis with  the holders  of the Non-Voting Common Stock as a
single class  in all of the remaining assets of the Corpora-
tion of  whatever kind  available for distribution to stock-
holders.   A consolidation or merger of the Corporation with
and into  any other corporation or corporations shall not be
deemed to  be a  liquidation, dissolution,  or winding-up of
the Corporation as those terms are used in this paragraph 3.

Section C.  Non-Voting Common Stock.

     1.   Voting Rights.

          Except as otherwise required by law or provided in
this Certificate  of Incorporation, the holders of shares of
Non-Voting Common Stock shall have no vote on any matter.

     2.   Dividends.

          Subject to  the rights of the holders of Preferred
Stock and  any other class or series of stock having a pref-
erence as to dividends over the Non-Voting Common Stock then
outstanding, the  holders of  the  Non-Voting  Common  Stock
shall be  entitled to  receive, to  the extent  permitted by
law, such  dividends as may be declared from time to time by
the Board of Directors, provided, however, that:

(a)   No cash  dividend or  other  distribution  of  assets,
     rights, evidence  of indebtedness or any other property
     shall be  declared, paid  or made to the holders of the
     Non-Voting Common Stock unless a cash dividend or other
     such distribution  in like  kind  and  equal  per-share
     amount is  simultaneously declared, paid or made to the
     holders of Common Stock; and that

(b)  Stock dividends declared on the Non-Voting Common Stock
     shall be  payable solely in shares of Non-Voting Common
     Stock.   No stock dividend shall be declared or paid on
     the Non-Voting  Common Stock  unless a  stock  dividend
     payable in  shares of  Common Stock, proportionate on a
     per-share basis  to  the  dividend  on  the  Non-Voting
     Common Stock,  is simultaneously  declared and  paid on
     the Common Stock.




     3.   Liquidation.

          In the  event of the voluntary or involuntary liq-
uidation, dissolution,  distribution of assets or winding-up
of the  Corporation, after distribution in full of the pref-
erential amounts,  if any,  to be distributed to the holders
of shares  of the  Preferred Stock  and any  other class  or
series of  stock having  a preference as to liquidating dis-
tributions over  the Non-Voting Common Stock, the holders of
the Non-Voting  Common Stock shall be entitled to share rat-
ably on  a per-share  basis with  the holders  of the Common
Stock as  a single  class in  all of the remaining assets of
the Corporation  of whatever kind available for distribution
to stockholders.   A consolidation or merger of the Corpora-
tion with  and into  any other  corporation or  corporations
shall not  be deemed  to be  a liquidation,  dissolution, or
winding-up of  the Corporation  as those  terms are  used in
this paragraph  3.   (Amended January 10, 1949; December 22,
1959; November  18, 1960;  January 30,  1968;  November  22,
1971; January 29, 1980; December 5, 1983; September 3, 1985;
February 17,  1987; June  1, 1987; January 31, 1990; January
30, 1991)

     FIFTH:  The corporation is to have perpetual existence.

     SIXTH:  The private property of the stockholders of the
corporation shall not be subject to the payment of corporate
debts of the corporation to any extent whatever.

     SEVENTH:   Whenever a compromise or arrangement is pro-
posed between  this corporation  and its  creditors  or  any
class of them and/or between this corporation and its stock-
holders or  any class of them, any court of equitable juris-
diction within the State of Delaware may, on the application
in a  summary way  of this corporation or of any creditor or
stockholder thereof,  or on  the application of any receiver
or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provi-
sions of  Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code, or on
the  application  of  trustees  in  dissolution  or  of  any
receiver or  receivers appointed  for this corporation under
the provisions  of Section  279 of  Title 8  of the Delaware
Code, order  a meeting  of the  creditors or class of credi-
tors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of
this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such
manner as  the said  Court directs.  If a majority in number
representing three-fourths  in value  of  the  creditors  or
class of  creditors, and/or  of the stockholders or class of
stockholders of  this corporation, as the case may be, agree
to any  compromise or  arrangement and to any reorganization
of this  corporation as  consequence of  such compromise  or
arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said
reorganization shall.  if sanctioned  by the  Court to which
the said  application has  been made,  be binding on all the
creditors or  class of  creditors, and/or  on all the stock-


holders or  class of  stockholders, of  this corporation, as
the case may be, and also on this corporation.

     EIGHTH:   In furtherance,  and not in limitation of the
powers conferred  by statute,  the  Board  of  Directors  is
expressly authorized:

(a)   To make,  alter, amend  and rescind the Bylaws of this
     corporation;

(b)   From time  to time  to determine  whether and  to what
     extent and  at which  times and  places and  under what
     conditions and  regulations, the  accounts and books of
     this corporation  (other than  the stock ledger) or any
     of them,  shall be  open to inspection of stockholders;
     and no  stockholder shall  have any right of inspecting
     any account,  book, or  document  of  this  corporation
     except as  conferred by statute, unless authorized by a
     resolution of stockholders or directors;

(c)  To fix the amount to be reserved as working capital; to
     authorize and  cause to be executed mortgages and liens
     upon the  real and  personal property and franchises of
     this corporation;

(d)   By resolution  or resolutions  passed by a majority of
     the whole  Board, to  designate one or more committees,
     each committee  to consist of two or more of the direc-
     tors of  the corporation, which, to the extent provided
     in said  resolution or resolutions, or in the Bylaws of
     the corporation  shall have and may exercise the powers
     of the  Board of  Directors in  the management  of  the
     business and  the affairs  of the  corporation, and may
     have power  to authorize the seal of the corporation to
     be affixed  to all  papers which  may require it.  Such
     committee or  committees shall  have such name or names
     as may be stated in the Bylaws of the corporation or as
     may be  determined from  time  to  time  by  resolution
     adopted by the Board of Directors.

     Both stockholders  and directors  shall have the power,
if the  Bylaws so  provide, to  hold their  meetings  either
within or  without the  State of  Delaware; the  corporation
shall also have the power, if the Bylaws so provide, to have
one or more offices within or without the State of Delaware,
in addition to the principal office in Delaware, and to keep
the books  of this corporation (subject to the provisions of
the statute) outside of the State of Delaware at such places
as may  from time  to time  be designated  by the  Board  of
Directors.  (Amended January 29, 1980)

     This corporation  may in its Bylaws confer powers addi-
tional to the foregoing upon the directors and may also con-



fer upon  them powers in addition to the powers and authori-
ties expressly conferred upon them by the statute.

     NINTH:   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Article NINTH:

     (i)   any merger  or consolidation  of the  corporation
          with or into any other corporation;

    (ii)   any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of
          all or substantially all of the assets of the cor-
          poration to  or with any other corporation, person
          or other entity;

   (iii)   the issuance or transfer of any securities of the
          corporation to  any other  corporation, person  or
          other entity  in exchange for assets or securities
          or a combination thereof (except assets or securi-
          ties or  a combination  thereof so  acquired in  a
          single transaction or a series of related transac-
          tions having  an aggregate  fair market  value  of
          less than $5,000,000); or

    (iv)   the issuance or transfer of any securities of the
          corporation to  any other  corporation, person  or
          other entity for cash,

shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of

     (a)   at least 75% of the outstanding shares of capital
          stock of  the corporation  entitled to vote gener-
          ally in the election of directors, (considered for
          the purposes of this Article as one class), and

     (b)   at least  a majority of the outstanding shares of
          capital stock  of the corporation entitled to vote
          generally in  the election  of directors which are
          not beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
          such other corporation, person or other entity,

if, as  of the  record date  for the determination of stock-
holders entitled to notice thereof and to vote thereon, such
other corporation,  person or other entity is the beneficial
owner, directly  or indirectly,  of 5%  or more  of the out-
standing shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled
to vote generally in the election of directors.  Such affir-
mative vote  shall be required notwithstanding the fact that
no vote  may be required, or that some lesser percentage may
be specified  by law  or in  any agreement with any national
securities exchange.

     The provisions of this Article NINTH shall not apply to
any transaction  described in  clauses (i),  (ii), (iii)  or
(iv) of  the first  paragraph  of  this  Article,  (i)  with


another corporation if a majority, by vote, of the outstand-
ing shares  of all  classes of  capital stock  of such other
corporation entitled  to vote  generally in  the election of
directors, (considered  for this  purpose as  one class), is
owned of  record or  beneficially by  the corporation and/or
its subsidiaries;  or (ii)  with another corporation, person
or other entity if the Board of Directors of the corporation
shall by  resolution have  approved a  memorandum of  under-
standing with such other corporation, person or other entity
with respect  to  and  substantially  consistent  with  such
transaction prior to the time such other corporation, person
or other  entity became  the beneficial  owner, directly  or
indirectly, of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of capi-
tal stock  of the  corporation entitled to vote generally in
the election of directors.

     For the  purposes of this Article NINTH, a corporation,
person or  other entity shall be deemed to be the beneficial
owner of  any shares of capital stock of the corporation (i)
which it has the right to acquire pursuant to any agreement,
or upon  exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options,
or otherwise, or (ii) which are beneficially owned, directly
or indirectly  (including shares deemed owned through appli-
cation of  clause (i) of this paragraph above), by any other
corporation, person or other entity (a) with which it or its
"affiliate" or  "associate" (as  referenced below)  has  any
agreement, arrangement  or understanding  for the purpose of
acquiring, holding,  voting or disposing of capital stock of
the  corporation   or  (b)   which  is  its  "affiliate"  or
"associate" as those terms were defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
General Rules  and Regulations under the Securities Exchange
Act of  1934 as in effect on December 1, 1979.  For the pur-
poses of this Article NINTH, the outstanding shares of capi-
tal stock  of the  corporation shall  include shares  deemed
owned through  the application  of clauses  (i) and  (ii) of
this paragraph  but shall not include any other shares which
may be  issuable pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise
of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.

     The Board  of Directors  of the  corporation shall have
the power  and duty  to determine  for the  purposes of this
Article NINTH, on the basis of information then known to it,
whether (i)  any corporation, person or other entity benefi-
cially owns,  directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the out-
standing shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled
to vote  generally in  the election  of directors,  or is an
"affiliate" or  an  "associate"  (as  referenced  above)  of
another, (ii)  any proposed  sale, lease,  exchange or other
disposition  of  part  of  the  assets  of  the  corporation
involves a  substantial part  of the  assets of the corpora-
tion, (iii)  assets or securities, or a combination thereof,
to be  acquired in  exchange for  securities of the corpora-
tion, have  an aggregate  fair market  value  of  less  than
$5,000,000 and  whether the same are proposed to be acquired


in a single transaction or a series of related transactions,
and (iv)  the memorandum  of understanding referred to above
is substantially consistent with the transaction to which it
relates.   Any such determination by the Board shall be con-
clusive and binding for all purposes of this Article NINTH.

     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Certificate
of Incorporation or the Bylaws (and in addition to any other
vote that may be required by law, this Certificate of Incor-
poration or  the Bylaws),  there shall be required to amend,
alter, change, or repeal, directly or indirectly, this Arti-
cle NINTH  the affirmative  vote of  (i) at least 75% of the
outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation enti-
tled to vote generally in the election of directors and (ii)
at least  a majority  of the  outstanding shares  of capital
stock of  the corporation  entitled to vote generally in the
election of  directors exclusive  of all voting stock of the
corporation beneficially  owned, directly  or indirectly  by
any corporation, person or entity which is, as of the record
date for  the  determination  of  stockholders  entitled  to
notice of  such amendment, alteration, change or repeal, and
to vote  thereon, the  beneficial owner,  directly or  indi-
rectly, of  5% or  more of the outstanding shares of capital
stock of  the corporation  entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors.

     (Added by amendment January 29, 1980)

     TENTH:  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate
of Incorporation or the Bylaws, the corporation reserves the
right to  amend, alter,  change or repeal any provision con-
tained in  this Agreement  of Merger  which constitutes  the
Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. of the corporation
in the  manner now  or hereafter  prescribed by statute, and
all rights  conferred upon  stockholders herein  are granted
subject to this reservation.

     (Renumbered by amendment January 29, 1980)

     ELEVENTH:   A director  of the Corporation shall not be
personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for
monetary damages  or breach of fiduciary duty as a director,
except for  liability (i)  for any  breach of the director's
duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii)
for acts  or omissions  not in  good faith  or which involve
intentional misconduct  or a knowing violation of law, (iii)
under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or
(iv) for any transaction from which the director derived any
improper personal benefit.  If the Delaware General Corpora-
tion law  is amended  after approval  by the stockholders of
this provision  to authorize corporate action further elimi-
nating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then
the liability  of a  director of  the Corporation  shall  be



eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the
Delaware General Corporation law, as so amended.

     Any repeal  or modification  of the foregoing paragraph
by the  stockholders of  the Corporation shall not adversely
affect any right or protection of a director of the Corpora-
tion existing at the time of such repeal or modification.

     (Added February 17, 1987)















































EXHBIT (3) B-1

                           BYLAWS
                              
                             OF
                              
                  HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
                              
                              
                            NAME

1.   The name of the corporation is HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION.
     (Amended October  26, 1992;  Amended December 7, 1995 to
     conform with  Amendment  to  Articles  of  Incorporation
     Effective February 1, 1995))


                           OFFICES

2.   The principal  office of the corporation in the State of
     Delaware shall  be in  the City of Wilmington, County of
     New Castle, and the name of the resident agent in charge
     thereof shall  be The  Corporation Trust  Company, whose
     address is  100 West Tenth Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
     (Amended April  17, 1930;  September 20,  1930; June 13,
     1949)

     In addition  to its  principal office  in the  State  of
     Delaware, the  corporation may establish and maintain an
     office or  offices at  Austin, Minnesota,  and  at  such
     other places  as the Board of Directors may from time to
     time appoint  or the  business of  the  corporation  may
     require.


                       CORPORATE SEAL

3.   The corporate  seal of the corporation shall be circular
     in form and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the
     corporation, the  year of  its creation  (1928) and  the
     words "Seal", "Incorporated", and "Delaware".


                   STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS

4.   All meetings  of the  stockholders shall  be held at the
     office of  the corporation  at Austin,  Minnesota, or at
     such other  place as  the Board  of Directors  may  pre-
     viously determine.

5.   An annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation
     shall be  held on  the last  Tuesday of  January in each
     year, at eight o'clock p.m. or at such other time as the
     Board of  Directors may designate, when the stockholders
     shall elect  by plurality  vote, by  ballot, a  Board of
     Directors, and transact such other business as may prop-
     erly be  brought before  the meeting.  (Amended November
     15, 1938;  June 14,  1954; April  18, 1966;  October 28,
     1968; April 28, 1969; December 20, 1984)

6.   The holders  of a  majority of the stock issued and out-
     standing, present  in person,  or represented  by proxy,
     shall be  requisite and shall constitute a quorum at all
     meetings of  the stockholders  for  the  transaction  of
     business except  as otherwise  provided by  law, by  the
     certificate of  incorporation, or  by these Bylaws.  If,
     however, such  majority shall  not be  present or repre-
     sented at  any meeting  of the  stockholders, the stock-
     holders present  in person  or by  proxy shall  have the
     power to  adjourn the meeting from time to time, without
     notice other than announcement at the meeting, until the
     requisite amount  of stock  shall be  present.   At such
     adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of stock
     shall be  represented, any  business may  be  transacted
     which might have been transacted at the meeting as orig-
     inally notified.

7.   At each  meeting of  the stockholders  every stockholder
     shall be  entitled  to  vote  in  person,  or  by  proxy
     appointed by an instrument in writing subscribed by such
     stockholder and bearing a date not more than three years
     prior to  said meeting,  unless said instrument provides
     for a  longer period.   Each  stockholder shall have one
     vote for  each share  of stock registered in his name on
     the books  of the  corporation.  The vote for Directors,
     and, upon  demand of  any stockholder, the vote upon any
     question before  the meeting,  shall be  by ballot.  All
     elections shall  be held  and all questions decided by a
     plurality vote. (Amended March 23, 1970)

8.   Written notice  of the annual meeting shall be mailed to
     each stockholder at such address as appears on the stock
     book of  the corporation  at least ten days prior to the
     meeting. (Amended October 28, 1975)

9.   A complete  list of the stockholders entitled to vote at
     the ensuing  election, arranged  in alphabetical  order,
     with the  residence of  each, and  the number  of shares
     held by  each, shall  be prepared  by the  Secretary and
     filed at  the place where the election is to be held, at
     least ten  days before  every election, and shall at all
     times, during  the usual  hours for business, and during
     the whole time of said election, be open to the examina-
     tion of any stockholder.  (Amended February 19, 1968)

10.  Special meetings  of the  stockholders, for any purpose,
     or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the statute,
     may be called by the Chairman of the Board, or Secretary
     at the  request, in  writing, of  stockholders owning  a
     majority in  amount of  the entire  capital stock of the
     corporation issued  and outstanding.  Such request shall
     state the  purpose or  purposes of the proposed meeting.
     (Amended January  31, 1984;  Amended September 27, 1993,
     Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

11.  Business transacted  at all  special meetings  shall  be
     confined to the objects stated in the call.

12.  Written notice  of a  special meeting  of  stockholders,
     stating the  time and place and object thereof, shall be
     mailed, postage  prepaid, at  least ten days before such
     meeting, to  each stockholder at such address as appears
     on the  books of  the corporation.  (Amended October 28,
     1975)


                          DIRECTORS

13.  The property  and business  of the  corporation shall be
     managed by its Board of Directors.  The number of Direc-
     tors shall  be established  from time to time by resolu-
     tion of the stockholders or the Board of Directors.  The
     Directors of  the corporation  shall be elected annually
     at the  annual meeting of stockholders and each Director
     shall be  elected to  serve until his successor shall be
     elected and  shall qualify.  (Amended November 16, 1964;
     June 21,  1965; November  25,  1968;  August  25,  1969;
     December 22, 1969; February 24, 1970; December 19, 1972;
     July 22,  1974; September  23, 1974;  December 22, 1975;
     November 29;  1976; December  27, 1978;  July 23,  1979;
     January 29, 1980)

14.  In addition  to the  powers  and  authorities  by  these
     Bylaws expressly  conferred upon  them,  the  Board  may
     exercise all  such powers  of the corporation and do all
     such lawful  acts and things as are not by statute or by
     Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed
     or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.


                     DIRECTORS' MEETINGS

15.  (Amended September  27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993;
     Deleted December 7, 1995)

15.  Regular meetings  of the Board, after the organizational
     meeting, shall  be held  without notice at the Corporate
     Office of  the corporation  at Austin, Minnesota, on the
     fourth Monday  of January,  March, May, July, September,
     October and  November at 1:00 p.m. or such other time as
     the Board  shall designate,  or, without notice, at such
     other time  or place,  within or  without the  State  of






     Minnesota, as  the Board  of Directors  may from time to
     time designate.   (Amended July 16, 1935; June 14, 1954;
     May 20,  1957; April  17, 1967; February 19, 1968; March
     25, 1980; January 28, 1985)

16.  Special meetings  of the  Board may  be  called  by  the
     Chairman of the Board on one day's notice to each Direc-
     tor, either  personally or  by mail  or by  telegram  or
     telephone; special  meetings  shall  be  called  by  the
     Chairman of the Board, or Secretary in like manner or on
     like notice  on the  written request  of two  Directors.
     (Amended January  31, 1984;  Amended September 27, 1993,
     Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

17.  At all  meetings of  the Board, a majority of the number
     of Directors authorized by the Bylaws shall be necessary
     and sufficient  to constitute  a quorum for the transac-
     tion of  business, and  the act  of a  majority  of  the
     Directors present  at any  meeting at  which there  is a
     quorum shall  be the  act of  the  Board  of  Directors,
     except as  may be  otherwise  specifically  provided  by
     statute or  by the  Certificate of  Incorporation or  by
     these Bylaws.  (Amended January 18, 1965)


                  COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

18.  Directors, as  such, shall not receive any stated salary
     for their  services, but,  by resolution of the Board, a
     fixed sum  and expenses  of attendance,  if any,  may be
     allowed for  attendance at each regular or special meet-
     ing of  the Board;  PROVIDED, That  nothing herein  con-
     tained shall  be construed to preclude any Director from
     serving  the  corporation  in  any  other  capacity  and
     receiving compensation therefor.

19.  Members of special or standing committees may be allowed
     like compensation for attending committee meetings.


                         COMMITTEES

20.  The Board  of Directors  may, by  resolution or  resolu-
     tions, passed  by a  majority of the whole Board, desig-
     nate one  or more  committees, each committee to consist
     of two  or more  of the  Directors of  the  corporation,
     which, to  the extent  provided in  said  resolution  or
     resolutions or in these Bylaws, shall have and may exer-
     cise the powers of the Board of Directors in the manage-
     ment of  the business and affairs of the corporation and
     may have  power to authorize the seal of the corporation
     to be  affixed to all papers which may require it.  Such
     committee or committees shall have such name or names as
     may be  stated in  these Bylaws  or as may be determined
     from time  to time by resolution adopted by the Board of
     Directors.

21.  The committees  shall keep regular minutes of their pro-
     ceedings and  report the same to the Board at each regu-
     lar meeting.


                          VACANCIES

22.  In case of any vacancy in the Board of Directors by rea-
     son of  death, resignation,  or otherwise, the remaining
     Directors, by  majority vote,  may elect  a successor to
     hold office  until a  successor has  been elected by the
     stockholders.   (Amended April  18, 1955;  November  25,
     1974; October 26, 1992 [Bylaw 33 renumbered to Bylaw 23,
     and following sections renumbered])


                          OFFICERS

23.  The officers  of the corporation shall be elected by the
     Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board,
     a President,  one or  more Vice  Presidents of  whatever
     special designation the Board may determine, a Secretary
     and a  Treasurer.   The Board  may also  elect Assistant
     Vice Presidents,  Assistant  Secretaries  and  Assistant
     Treasurers, and  a Controller and Assistant Controllers.
     The Chairman  of the  Board and  the President  must  be
     Directors, but  other officers  need not  be  Directors.
     The designation  and duties of any Vice President may be
     changed by the Board at any time.  (Amended November 19,
     1929; July 8, 1946; April 18, 1955; April 21, 1958; July
     19, 1965;  January 15,  1968; February  19, 1968; August
     25, 1969;  August 24,  1981; April 25, 1983; January 31,
     1984; Amended  September 27,  1993, Effective October 1,
     1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

24.  The Board  of Directors, at its first meeting after each
     Annual Meeting  of Stockholders,  shall elect a Chairman
     of the  Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents,
     a Secretary and a Treasurer, and may elect a Controller,
     Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assis-
     tant Treasurers  and Assistant Controllers.  Such action
     may be  taken by  unanimous written consent in lieu of a
     meeting.  (Amended May 11, 1942; July 8, 1946; April 18,
     1955; July  19, 1965;  January 15,  1968;  February  19,
     1968; August  25, 1969; August 24, 1981; April 25, 1983;
     January 31,  1984; October  26, 1992;  Amended September
     27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7,
     1995)

25.  The Board  may appoint such other officers and agents as
     it shall  deem necessary,  who shall  hold their offices






     for such  terms and  shall exercise such powers and per-
     form such  duties as  shall be  determined from  time to
     time by the Board.

26.  The Board  of Directors  shall have the right to fix the
     salaries of all officers of the corporation.

27.  The officers  of the corporation shall hold office until
     their successors are elected and qualify in their stead.
     Any officers  elected by  the Board  of Directors may be
     removed at  any time by the affirmative vote of a major-
     ity of  the whole  Board of Directors.  If the office of
     any officer  becomes vacant  for any reason, the vacancy
     shall be  filled by the affirmative vote of the majority
     of the whole Board of Directors.  In its discretion, the
     Board may leave unfilled any office except that of Pres-
     ident, Treasurer or Secretary.  (Amended April 18, 1955)


                    THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD

28.  A.   The Chairman  of the  Board shall  preside  at  all
          meetings of stockholders and Directors.

     B.   The Chairman  of the  Board shall  be an ex-officio
          member of  all standing  committees  of  the  Board
          except those  committees which the Board determines
          will   comprise    only   nonemployee    Directors,
          specifically including  the Audit Committee and the
          Compensation Committee.

     C.   The Chairman  of  the  Board  shall  be  the  Chief
          Executive Officer of the corporation and shall have
          general and  active management  of the  business of
          the corporation.  (Bylaw 28 added December 7, 1995)
                              

                          THE PRESIDENT

29.  A.   In the  absence of  the Chairman  of the Board, the
          President  shall   preside  at   meetings  of   the
          stockholders and  Directors.   In the  event  of  a
          vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the Board,
          the President  shall exercise  the  powers  of  the
          Chairman of  the Board  until the  vacancy  in  the
          office of the Chairman of the Board has been filed.

     B.   The President  shall be an ex-officio member of all
          standing  committees  of  the  Board  except  those
          committees which the Board determines will comprise
          only nonemployee  Directors, specifically including
          the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.
     C.   The  President   shall  have   powers  and   duties
          appropriate to the office of President, taking into
          account Bylaw  28.C.   (Bylaw 29  added December 7,
          1995)

30.  (Amended April  18, 1955; April 16, 1962; July 19, 1965;
         February 19, 1968; August 25, 1969; August 24, 1981;
         January 31,  1984; May  19, 1986;  deleted September
         27, 1993 to be effective October 1, 1993)


                       VICE PRESIDENTS

30.  A.   In the  absence or disability of the President, the
         duties and powers of the President will be exercised
         by the  Executive Vice  Presidents, if  any, in  the
         order of  their seniority with the Company; if there
         is no  Executive Vice President, then by such of the
         Group Vice Presidents as are members of the Board in
         the order  of their  seniority on  the Board, and if
         any two  Group Vice presidents have the same senior-
         ity on the Board, then in the order of their senior-
         ity with  the corporation  until the Board of Direc-
         tors shall  designate one of their number to perform
         such duties.  (Amended July 8, 1946; April 18, 1955;
         April 21,  1958; July  19, 1965;  January 15,  1968;
         February 19, 1968; August 27, 1979; August 24, 1981;
         April 25, 1983)

     B.   In the  absence or  disability of the President, or
         the Executive  Vice Presidents  and all of the Group
         Vice Presidents, the Vice Presidents who are members
         of the  Board of  Directors in  the order  of  their
         seniority on  the Board shall perform the duties and
         exercise the powers of the President until the Board
         of Directors  shall designate one of their number to
         perform such  duties.   (Amended July 8, 1946; April
         21, 1958;  July 19, 1965; January 15, 1968; February
         19, 1968;  August 25,  1969; August  24, 1981; April
         25, 1983)


           THE SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES

31.  A.  The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board
         and all  meetings of the stockholders and record all
         votes and  the minutes  of all proceedings in a book
         to be  kept for that purpose; and shall perform like
         duties for  the standing  committees when  required.
         He shall  give, or  cause to be given, notice of all
         meetings of  the stockholders  and of  the Board  of
         Directors, and  shall perform  such other  duties as
         may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chief
         Executive Officer  of the  corporation, under  whose






         supervision he  shall be.   He  shall keep  in  safe
         custody  the  seal  of  the  corporation,  and  when
         authorized by  the Board, affix it to any instrument
         requiring it,  and  when  so  affixed  it  shall  be
         attested by his signature or by the signature of the
         Treasurer.  (Amended   October  26,   1992;  Amended
         September 27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993)

     B.   The Assistant  Secretaries in  the order  of  their
         seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the
         Secretary, perform  the duties and exercise the pow-
         ers of  the Secretary,  and shall perform such other
         duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.


           THE TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS

32.  The Treasurer  shall have  the custody  of the corporate
     funds and  securities and  shall keep  full and accurate
     accounts of  receipts and disbursements in books belong-
     ing to the corporation, and shall deposit all moneys and
     other valuable  effects in the name and to the credit of
     the corporation,  in such  depositories as may be desig-
     nated by the Board of Directors.

     A.   He shall  disburse the  funds of the corporation as
         may be  ordered by  the  Board,  taking  the  proper
         vouchers for  such disbursement, and shall render to
         the Chief  Executive Officer  of the corporation and
         Directors, at  the regular meetings of the Board, or
         whenever they  may require it, an account of all his
         transactions  as  Treasurer  and  of  the  financial
         condition of  the corporation.   (Amended  September
         27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993)

     B.   He shall give the corporation a bond if required by
         the Board  of Directors  in a  sum, and  with one or
         more sureties  satisfactory to  the Board,  for  the
         faithful performance  of the  duties of  his office,
         and for  the restoration  of the corporation in case
         of his  death, resignation,  retirement  or  removal
         from office,  of all  books, papers, vouchers, money
         and other  property of  whatever kind in his posses-
         sion or  under his control belonging to the corpora-
         tion.

     C.   The Assistant  Treasurers in  the  order  of  their
         seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the
         Treasurer, perform  the duties and exercise the pow-
         ers of  the Treasurer,  and shall perform such other
         duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.


             DUTIES OF OFFICERS MAY BE DELEGATED

33.  In case of the absence of an officer of the corporation,
     or for  any other  reason that the Board may deem suffi-
     cient, the  Board may  delegate, for the time being, the
     powers or  duties, or any of them of such officer to any
     other officer,  or to any Director, PROVIDED, a majority
     of the entire Board concur therein.


                    CERTIFICATES OF STOCK

34.  Stock certificates  of the corporation shall be numbered
     consecutively and  shall be  entered on the books of the
     corporation as  they are issued.  They shall exhibit the
     holders' names  and the  number of  shares and  shall be






     signed by  the Chairman of the Board or the President or
     a Vice  President and  by the  Treasurer or an Assistant
     Treasurer or  the Secretary  or an  Assistant Secretary.
     Until  such  other  transfer  agent  is  appointed,  the
     Secretary  shall   sign  as   transfer  agent.      Each
     certificate shall bear the corporate seal or a facsimile
     thereof.   Each certificate  shall recite  the  kind  or
     class of  stock it  represents.   (Amended September  8,
     1947; April  18, 1955;  November 24,  1959; October  26,
     1992; Amended  September 27,  1993, Effective October 1,
     1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

     Where a  certificate is  countersigned by (i) a transfer
     agent other  than the  corporation or  its employee,  or
     (ii) a  registrar other  than  the  Corporation  or  its
     employee, either  of which  countersignatures may  be  a
     facsimile, any other signature on the certificate may be
     a facsimile.   In  case any  officer, transfer  agent or
     registrar who  has signed  or whose  facsimile signature
     has been  placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to
     be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such
     certificate  is   issued,  it   may  be  issued  by  the
     corporation with  the same  effect as  if he  were  such
     officer, transfer  agent or  registrar at  the  date  of
     issue.   (Added by amendment January 12, 1942; September
     8, 1947;  April 18, 1955; November 24, 1959; October 27,
     1969; October 26, 1992; November 23, 1992)


                      TRANSFER OF STOCK
                              
35.  All transfer  of stock  of the corporation shall be made
     on the books of the corporation only by the person named
     in the  certificate or  by an  attorney lawfully consti-
     tuted in writing, and upon the surrender of certificates
     for the  stock so  transferred.   Unless other  transfer
     agents be  designated by  the Board  of  Directors,  the
     Secretary shall be the sole transfer agent.


                  CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS

36.  The Board  of Directors  shall have  power to  close the
     stock transfer books of the corporation for a period not
     exceeding sixty  (60) days  preceding the  date  of  any
     meeting of  stockholders or  the date for payment of any
     dividend or  the date for the allotment of rights or the
     date when  any change or conversion or exchange of capi-
     tal stock  shall go into effect; PROVIDED, however, that
     in lieu  of closing  the stock  transfer books as afore-
     said, the  Board of Directors may fix in advance a date,
     not exceeding  sixty (60) days preceding the date of any
     meeting of  stockholders or  the date for the payment of
     any dividend,  or the  date for the allotment of rights,
     or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of
     capital stock  shall go into effect as a record date for
     the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice
     of, and  to vote  at any  such meeting,  or entitled  to
     receive payment  of any  such dividend,  or to  any such
     allotment of  rights,  or  to  exercise  the  rights  in
     respect of  any such  change, conversion  or exchange of
     capital stock,  and in  such case only such stockholders
     as shall  be stockholders of record on the date so fixed
     shall be  entitled to  such notice  of, and  to vote at,
     such meeting, or to receive payment of such dividend, or
     to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such
     rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer
     of any  stock on  the books of the corporation after any
     such record  date fixed as aforesaid.  (Amended November
     21, 1966; March 23, 1970)


                   REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS

37.  The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of
     record of  any share or shares of stock as the holder in
     fact thereof  and accordingly shall not be bound to rec-
     ognize any  equitable or  other claim  to or interest in
     such share  on the  part of any other person, whether or
     not it  shall have express or other notice thereof, save
     expressly provided by the laws of Delaware.


                      LOST CERTIFICATE

38.  Any person claiming a certificate of stock to be lost or
     destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that
     fact and  advertise the same in such manner as the Board
     of Directors  may require,  and the  Board of  Directors
     may, in  their discretion, before issuing a new certifi-
     cate, require  the owner  of the  lost or destroyed cer-
     tificate, or  his legal representative, to give the cor-
     poration a  bond, in  such sum  as they  may direct, not
     exceeding double  the value  of the  stock, to indemnify
     the corporation  against any  claim  that  may  be  made
     against it  on account  of alleged loss of any such cer-
     tificate; a  new certificate  of the  same tenor and for
     the same  number of shares as the one alleged to be lost
     or destroyed  may be  issued without  requiring any bond
     when, in  the judgment of the Directors, it is proper so
     to do.


                      CHECKS AND NOTES

39.  Checks, drafts,  orders for  the payment  of  money  and
     promissory notes shall be signed or endorsed in the name
     of the  corporation by  such person  or persons  as  the






     Board of  Directors, by  resolution, shall  from time to
     time appoint.

                              
                         FISCAL YEAR
                              
40.  The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on the last
     Saturday of October in each year.


                          DIVIDENDS

41.  Dividends upon  the capital  stock of  the  corporation,
     subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorpo-
     ration, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any
     regular or  special meeting, pursuant to law.  Dividends
     may be  paid in  cash, in  property, or in shares of the
     capital stock.

     Before payment  of any  dividend, there may be set aside
     out of  any funds of the corporation available for divi-
     dends such  sum or  sums as  the Directors  from time to
     time, in  their absolute  discretion, think  proper as a
     reserve fund  to meet  contingencies, or  for equalizing
     dividends, or  for repairing or maintaining any property
     of the  corporation, or  for such  other purposes as the
     Directors shall  think conducive to the interests of the
     corporation.


     INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES

42.  The corporation  to the  fullest extent permitted by the
     applicable laws  of the State of Delaware in effect from
     time to  time shall  indemnify each  officer against the
     expenses of  any action to which such officer is a party
     or is  threatened to  be made  a party  by reason of the
     fact that  he is  or was  an officer of the corporation;
     and the  corporation may purchase and maintain insurance
     for the purpose of indemnification to the fullest extent
     permitted by said laws.

     As used  in this  Bylaw: (i)  the term officer means any
     person who is, was or may hereafter be a director, offi-
     cer, employee  or agent  of this  corporation or, at the
     request of this corporation, of any other corporation or
     of any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enter-
     prise and the rights of indemnification under this Bylaw
     shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal repre-
     sentatives of  any such  persons, (ii)  the term  action
     means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit
     or proceeding,  whether civil,  criminal, administrative
     or investigative  including those  by or in the right of
     the corporation  and whether  or not involving an act or
     omission of  an officer  in his  capacity  as  such  and
     whether or  not he  is an  officer at  the time  of such
     action, and  (iii) the term expenses of any action shall
     include attorneys'  fees, judgments, fines, amounts paid
     in settlement and any other expenses incurred in connec-
     tion with  an action but in the case of actions by or in
     the right  of the corporation the term shall not include
     judgments or other amounts paid to the corporation.  The
     foregoing terms  shall be  construed and shall be deemed
     to be  amended from  time to  time as necessary so as to
     permit indemnification  to the  fullest extent permitted
     under the  applicable laws of the State of Delaware then
     in effect.   (Bylaw  42 added November 20, 1967; amended
     May 27, 1980)


                      WAIVER OF NOTICES

43.  Any stockholder,  director  or  officer  may  waive  any
     notice required to be given under these Bylaws.


                         AMENDMENTS

44.  These Bylaws  may be  altered or amended by the Board of
     Directors at  any meeting  by the  affirmative vote of a
     majority of  the whole  Board of  Directors.  The Bylaws
     may also  be altered  or amended  at any  meeting of the
     stockholders by  the affirmative  vote of  a majority of
     the stock issued and outstanding.































EXHIBIT 23
                                   
                                   
                                   
                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                   

We consent  to the  incorporation by  reference to  this Annual  Report
(Form 10K) of Hormel Foods Corporation of our report dated November 21,
1995, included  in the  1995 Annual  Report to  Stockholders of  Hormel
Foods Corporation.

Our audits  also included  the financial  statement schedule  of Hormel
Foods  Corporation   listed  in   Item  14(a).  This  schedule  is  the
responsibility of  the Company's  management. Our  responsibility is to
express an  opinion based  on our audits. In our opinion, the financial
statement schedule  referred to  above, when  considered in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

We also  consent to  the incorporation  by reference  in Post-Effective
Amendment Number 2 to Registration Statement Number 33-14614 on Form S-
8 dated  December 6, 1988, in Registration Statement Number 33-14615 on
Form S-8  dated May  20, 1987,  in Post-Effective Amendment Number 1 to
Registration Number  33-29053 dated  January 26,  1990, in Registration
Statement Number  33-43246 on  Form S-8  dated October  9, 1991, and in
Registration Statement  Number 33-45408  on Form  S-8 dated January 30,
1992, of  our report  dated November  21, 1995,  with  respect  to  the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and
our report  included in  the preceding  paragraph with  respect to  the
financial statement schedule included in this annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Hormel Foods Corporation.



                              /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP




Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 26, 1996

