10-K


a09-35339_110k.htm

10-K


ANNUAL
REPORT ON FORM 10-K

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

OCTOBER
25, 2009

Table
of Contents

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission
File Number: 1-2402

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(507)
437-5611

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which
  registered

Common Stock, $.0586 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulations S-T during the preceding 12 months.  Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large
  accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
  filer

o

Non-accelerated
  filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting
  company)

Smaller
  reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market
value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of April 26, 2009 (the last business day of the registrant’s
most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was $2,117,802,675 based on the
closing price of $30.63 per share on that date.

As of November 27,
2009, the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of
common stock was as follows:

Common
Stock, $.0586 Par Value – 133,628,663 shares

Common
Stock Non-Voting, $.01 Par Value – 0 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the fiscal year ended October 25,
2009, are incorporated by reference into Part I, Items 1 and 1A and Part II,
Items 5-8 and 9A, and included as Exhibit 13.1 filed herewith.

Portions
of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 26,
2010, are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14.



HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION




PART I

Item 1.

BUSINESS

(a)

General Development of Business

Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the
Company), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, as
George A. Hormel & Company.  The
Company started as a processor of meat and food products and continues in this
line of business.  The Company name was
changed to Hormel Foods Corporation on January 31, 1995.  The Company is primarily engaged in the
production of a variety of meat and food products and the marketing of those
products throughout the United States and internationally.  Although pork and turkey remain the major raw
materials for its products, the Company has emphasized for several years the
manufacturing and distribution of branded, value-added consumer items rather
than the commodity fresh meat business. 
The Company has continually expanded its product portfolio through
organic growth, new product development, and acquisitions.

Internationally, the Company markets its products
through Hormel Foods International Corporation (HFIC), a wholly owned
subsidiary.  HFIC has a presence in the
international marketplace through joint ventures and placement of personnel in
strategic foreign locations such as Australia, Canada, China, Japan, and the
Philippines.  HFIC also has a global
presence with minority positions in food companies in Mexico (Hormel Alimentos,
50% holding) and the Philippines (Purefoods-Hormel, 40% holding), and in a hog
production and processing operation in Vietnam (San Miguel Purefoods (Vietnam)
Co. Ltd., 49% holding).

On October 26,
2009, subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, the Company also completed the
formation of MegaMex Foods, LLC, a joint venture which will market Mexican
foods in the United States.  The Company
will have a 50 percent ownership interest in this joint venture, and the
investment will be included in the Company’s Grocery Products segment.

The Company has not been involved in any bankruptcy,
receivership, or similar proceedings during its history.  Substantially all of the assets of the
Company have been acquired in the ordinary course of business.

The Company had no significant change in the type of
products produced or services rendered, or in the markets or methods of
distribution since the beginning of the 2009 fiscal year.

(b)

Segments

The Company’s business
is reported in five segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated Foods, Jennie-O
Turkey Store (JOTS), Specialty Foods, and All Other.  Net sales to unaffiliated customers and
operating profit, and the presentation of certain other financial information
by segment, are reported in Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the
fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, incorporated herein by reference.

(c)

Description of Business

Products and Distribution

The Company’s products primarily consist of meat and
other food products.  The meat products
are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked, and canned.  The percentages of total revenues contributed
by classes of similar products for the last three fiscal years of the Company
are as follows:

Reporting
of revenues from external customers is based on similarity of products, as the
same or similar products are sold across multiple distribution channels such as
retail, foodservice, or international. 
Revenues reported are based on financial information used to produce the
Company’s general-purpose financial statements.


Table of
Contents

Perishable meat includes fresh meats, sausages, hams,
wieners, and bacon (excluding JOTS products). The Poultry category is composed
primarily of JOTS products.  Shelf-stable
includes canned luncheon meats, shelf-stable microwaveable entrees, stews,
chilies, hash, meat spreads, flour and corn tortillas, salsas, tortilla chips,
and other items that do not require refrigeration.  The Other category primarily consists of
nutritional food products and supplements, sugar and sugar substitutes,
creamers, salt and pepper products, sauces and salad dressings, dessert and
drink mixes, and industrial gelatin products.

Construction of the new production facility in
Dubuque, Iowa continues, which will provide additional capacity for canned and
microwave tray items beginning in January 2010.  No other new products in fiscal 2009 required
a material investment of the Company’s assets.

Domestically, the Company sells its products in all 50
states.  The Company’s products are sold
through its sales personnel, operating in assigned territories coordinated from
sales offices located in most of the larger U.S. cities, as well as independent
brokers and distributors.  Dedicated
sales teams also serve major retail customers and coordinate sales of both
Grocery Products and Refrigerated Foods products.  As of October 25, 2009, the Company had
approximately 662 sales personnel engaged in selling its products.  Distribution of products to customers is
primarily by common carrier.

Through HFIC, the Company markets its products in
various locations throughout the world. 
Some of the larger markets include Australia, Canada, China, England,
Japan, Mexico, and Micronesia.  The
distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier, while the China
operations own and operate their own delivery system.  The Company, through HFIC, has licensed
companies to manufacture various Company products internationally on a royalty
basis, with the primary licensees being Tulip International of Denmark and CJ
CheilJedang Corporation of South Korea.

Raw Materials

The Company has, for the past several years, been
concentrating on processed branded products for consumers with year-round
demand to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity-type
products.  Pork continues to be the
primary raw material for Company products. 
Although the live pork industry has evolved to large, vertically
integrated, year-round confinement operations, and supply contracts have become
prevalent in the industry, there is still a seasonal variation in the supply of
fresh pork materials.  The Company’s
expanding line of processed items has reduced, but not eliminated, the
sensitivity of Company results to raw material supply and price fluctuations.

The majority of the hogs harvested by the Company are
purchased under supply contracts from producers located principally in
Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South
Dakota, Texas, Utah, Wisconsin, and Canada. 
The cost of hogs and the utilization of the Company’s facilities are
affected by both the level and the methods of pork production in the United
States.  The movement toward year-round
confinement operations which operate under supply agreements with processors
has resulted in fewer hogs being available on the spot cash market.  The Company, along with others in the
industry, uses supply contracts to manage the effects of this trend and to
ensure a stable supply of raw materials. 
The Company has converted the majority of its contracts to market-based
formulas to better match input costs with customer pricing, and all contract
costs are fully reflected in the Company’s reported financial statements.  In fiscal 2009, the Company purchased 93
percent of its hogs under supply contracts. 
The Company also procures a portion of its hogs through farms that it
either owns or operates in Arizona, California, Colorado, Kansas, and Wyoming.

In fiscal 2009, JOTS raised turkeys representing
approximately 69 percent of the volume needed to meet its raw material
requirements for whole bird and processed turkey products.  Turkeys not sourced within the Company are
contracted with independent turkey growers. 
JOTS’ turkey-raising farms are located throughout Minnesota and
Wisconsin.

Production costs in raising hogs and turkeys are
subject primarily to fluctuations in feed grain prices and, to a lesser extent,
fuel costs.  To manage this risk, the
Company periodically hedges a portion of its anticipated purchases of grain
using futures contracts.

Manufacturing

The Company has four plants that harvest hogs for
processing.  Quality Pork Processors, Inc.
of Dallas, Texas, operates the harvesting facility at Austin, Minnesota under a
custom harvesting arrangement.  The
Company has six turkey harvest and processing operations, and 40 facilities
that produce and distribute other manufactured items.  Albert Lea Select Foods, Inc. operates
the processing facility at Albert Lea, Minnesota under a custom manufacturing
agreement.  Company products are also
custom manufactured by several other companies. 
The following are the Company’s larger custom manufacturers: Steuben
Foods, Jamaica, New York; Lakeside Packing Company, Manitowoc, Wisconsin;
Schroeder Milk, Maplewood, Minnesota; Reichel Foods, Rochester, Minnesota;
Power Packaging, St. Charles, Illinois; and Tony Downs, St. James,
Minnesota.  Power


Table of
Contents

Logistics, Inc., based in St. Charles, Illinois,
operates distribution centers for the Company in Dayton, Ohio, and Osceola,
Iowa.

Patents and
Trademarks

There are numerous patents and trademarks that are
important to the Company’s business.  The
Company holds 8 foreign and 46 U.S.-issued patents.  Some of the trademarks are registered and
some are not.  Some of the more
significant owned or licensed trademarks used by the Company or its affiliates
are:

HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER, AMERICAN CLASSICS, AUSTIN
BLUES, BANGKOK PADANG, BLACK LABEL, BREAD READY, BÚFALO, CAFÉ H, CALIFORNIA
NATURAL, CHI-CHI’S, COMPLEATS, CURE 81, CUREMASTER, DAN’S PRIZE, DI LUSSO,
DINTY MOORE, DODGER DOG, DOÑA MARIA, DUBUQUE, EMBASA, FARMER JOHN, FAST ‘N
EASY, GRANDE GOURMET, HERB-OX, HERDEZ, HIBACHI GRILL, HOMELAND, HOUSE OF TSANG,
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE, KID’S KITCHEN, LA VICTORIA, LAYOUT, LITTLE SIZZLERS,
LLOYD’S, MAGNIFOODS, MANNY’S, MARRAKESH EXPRESS, MARY KITCHEN, NATURAL CHOICE,
NATURASELECT, OLD SMOKEHOUSE, PELOPONNESE, PILLOW PACK, POCO PAC, PREP CHEF,
PREMORO, RANGE BRAND, RICO OLE’, ROSA GRANDE, SAAG’S, SANDWICH MAKER, SAUCY
BLUES, SPAM, SPAMTASTIC, STAGG, TEZZATA, THICK & EASY, VALLEY FRESH,
and WRANGLERS.

The Company’s patents expire after a term that is
typically 20 years from the date of filing, with earlier expiration possible
based on the Company’s decision to pay required maintenance fees.  As long as the Company intends to continue
using its trademarks, they are renewed indefinitely.

Customers
and Backlog Orders

During
fiscal year 2009, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart) represented
approximately 13 percent of the Company’s revenues (measured as gross sales
less returns and allowances), an increase of one percent from fiscal year
2008.  Wal-Mart is a customer for all
five segments of the Company.  The five
largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following
percentage of segment sales: 48 percent of Grocery Products, 38 percent of Refrigerated
Foods, 40 percent of JOTS, 40 percent of Specialty Foods, and 31 percent of All
Other.  The loss of one or more of the
top customers in any of these segments could have a material adverse effect on
the results of such segment.  Backlog
orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a large portion of
the products.  Orders are accepted and
shipped on a current basis.

Competition

The
production and sale of meat and food products in the United States and
internationally are highly competitive. 
The Company competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as
well as national and regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such
as beef, chicken, and fish.  The Company
believes that its largest domestic competitors for its Refrigerated Foods
segment in 2009 were Tyson Foods, Smithfield Foods, and Sara Lee Corporation;
for its Grocery Products segment, ConAgra Foods, General Mills, and Campbell
Soup Co.; and for JOTS, Cargill, Inc. and Butterball, LLC.

All
segments compete on the basis of price, product quality, brand identification,
and customer service.  Through aggressive
marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the Company’s strategy is to
provide higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which
would then support higher value perceptions from customers.

The
Company competes using this same strategy in international markets around the
world.

Research and Development

Research and development continues to be a vital part
of the Company’s strategy to extend existing brands and expand into new branded
items.  The expenditures for research and
development for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, were approximately $25,398,000,
$22,689,000, and $21,475,000, respectively.  
There are 113 employees engaged in full time research and development,
54 in the area of improving existing products and 59 in developing new
products.

Employees

As of October 25, 2009, the Company had
approximately 18,600 active employees.


Table of
Contents

(d)

Geographic Areas

Financial information about geographic areas,
including total revenues attributed to the U.S. and all foreign countries in
total for the last three fiscal years of the Company, is reported in Note L of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Annual Stockholder’s
Report for the fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, incorporated herein by
reference.

(e)

Available Information

The Company makes available, free of charge on its Web
site at www.hormelfoods.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
These reports are accessible under the “Investors” caption of the
Company’s Web site and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after
such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

The documents noted above are also available in print,
free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them.

(f)

Executive Officers of the Registrant


Table
of Contents

(f)

Executive Officers of the
Registrant-Continued


Table
of Contents

(f)

Executive Officers of the
Registrant-Continued

No family
relationship exists among the executive officers.

Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the
first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Vacancies may be filled and additional
officers elected at any regular or special meeting.

Item
1A.

RISK FACTORS

Information on the Company’s risk factors included in
the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 31 through 34 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for
the fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 1B.

UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS

None.


Table
of Contents

Item
2.

PROPERTIES


Table
of Contents

Item 2.

PROPERTIES
- - Continued


Table
of Contents

Item 2.

PROPERTIES
- - Continued

(1)

Many of the Company’s properties are not exclusive
  to any one segment, and a few of the properties are utilized in all five
  segments. For locations that support multiple segments, but with a
  substantial percentage of activity attributable to certain segments, only the
  principal segments have been listed.

(2)

Acres

The Company’s production
facility in Dubuque, Iowa, is under construction and is scheduled to begin
manufacturing in January 2010.  The
Company believes its operating facilities are well maintained and suitable for
current production volumes, and expansion plans are in process to accommodate
all volumes anticipated in the foreseeable future.

Item 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a
party to various legal proceedings related to the on-going operation of its
business.  The resolution of any
currently known matters is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

Item 4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to stockholders during the
fourth quarter of the 2009 fiscal year.


Table
of Contents

PART II

Item 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The high and low sales prices of the
Company’s common stock and the dividends per share declared for each quarter of
fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, are shown below:

Additional information
about dividends, principal market of trade, and number of stockholders on page 61
of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the fiscal year ended October 25,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference. 
The Company’s common stock has been listed on the New York Stock
Exchange since January 16, 1990.

Issuer purchases of
equity securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 are shown below:

(1)

The 36 shares repurchased during the quarter, other
  than through publicly announced plans or programs, represent purchases for
  the Company’s employee awards program.

(2)

On October 2, 2002, the Company announced that
  its Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase up to
  10,000,000 shares of common stock

with no
  expiration date.

Item
6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Selected Financial Data
for the five fiscal years ended October 25, 2009, on page 17 of the
Annual Stockholders’ Report for the fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Information in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 18 through 35 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the
fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information on the
Company’s exposure to market risk included in the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 34 and
35 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the fiscal year ended October 25,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated Financial
Statements, including unaudited quarterly data, on pages 39 through 60 and
the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on page 38 of
the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the fiscal year ended October 25,
2009, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item
9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

Item
9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

As of the end of
the period covered by this report (the Evaluation Date), the Company carried
out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)).  In designing and evaluating the disclosure
controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date,
our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports we file or
submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported
within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission  rules and forms, and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control over
Financial Reporting

(a)

The report entitled “Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting” on page 36 of the Annual Stockholder’s
Report for the fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, is incorporated herein
by reference.

(b)

The report entitled “Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm” on page 37 of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for
the fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, is incorporated herein by
reference.

(c)

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, there
has been no changed in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

Item 10.

DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information under “Item 1 - Election of Directors” on pages 2
through 4, information under “Board Independence” on pages 5 and 6, and
information under “Board of Director and Committee Meetings” on pages 6
and 7 of the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held January 26, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.

Information
concerning Executive Officers is set forth in Part I, Item 1(f) of
this Annual Report of Form 10-K, pursuant to Instruction 3 to Paragraph (b) of
Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

Information under “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance,” on page 30 of the definitive proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 26,
2010, is incorporated herein by reference.



The Company has adopted a
Code of Ethical Business Conduct in compliance with applicable rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission that applies to its principal executive
officer, its principal financial officer, and its principal accounting officer
or controller, or persons performing similar functions.  A copy of the Code of Ethical Business
Conduct is available on the Company’s Web site at www.hormelfoods.com, free of
charge, under the caption, “Investors — Corporate Governance.”  The Company intends to satisfy any disclosure
requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or
waiver from, a provision of this Code of Ethical Business Conduct by posting
such information on the Company’s Web site at the address and location
specified above.

Item

11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information
commencing with “Executive Compensation” on page 13 through “Potential
Payments Upon Termination at Fiscal 2009 Year End” on pages 29 and 30, and
information under “Compensation of Directors” on pages 9 through 11 of the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 26,
2010, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Information regarding the
Company’s equity compensation plans as of October 25, 2009, is shown
below:

Information
under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership
of Management” on pages 12 and 13 of the definitive proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 26, 2010, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Information
under “Related Party Transactions” on page 30 and “Board Independence” on pages 5
and 6 of the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held January 26, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

Information under “Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm Fees” and “Audit Committee Preapproval Policies and Procedures”
on pages 11 and 12 of the Company’s definitive proxy statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 26, 2010, is
incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The response to Item 15 is submitted as a separate
section of this report.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Table
of Contents

F-1

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 15

LIST OF
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULE

LIST OF
EXHIBITS

FISCAL
YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 25, 2009

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

Austin,
Minnesota



F-2

Item 15

LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following consolidated financial statements of
Hormel Foods Corporation included in the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the
fiscal year ended October 25, 2009, are incorporated herein by reference
in Item 8 of Part II of this report:

Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position—

October 25, 2009, and October 26, 2008.

Consolidated Statements of
Operations—

Fiscal
Years Ended October 25, 2009, October 26, 2008, and October 28,
2007.

Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Investment—

Fiscal Years Ended October 25, 2009,
October 26, 2008, and October 28, 2007.

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows—

Fiscal Years Ended October 25, 2009, October 26, 2008, and October 28,
2007.

Notes to Financial
Statements—

October 25,
2009.

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The following consolidated financial statement
schedule of Hormel Foods Corporation required pursuant to Item 15(c) is
submitted herewith:

Schedule
II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves...F-3

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SCHEDULES OMITTED

Condensed parent company financial statements of the
registrant are omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of Article 5 of
Regulation S-X.

All other schedules for which provision is made in the
applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore
have been omitted.


Table
of Contents

F-3

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

(In Thousands)

Note (1)

—

Uncollectible
accounts written off.

Note (2)

—

Recoveries on
accounts previously written off.

Note (3)

— Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion of Boca
Grande accounts receivable.

Note (4)

— Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion of
Burke and Provena accounts receivable.


Table
of Contents

LIST OF EXHIBITS

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION


Table
of Contents

LIST OF EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

(1)

Document has previously been filed with the
  Securities and Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein by reference.

(2)

These exhibits transmitted via EDGAR.

(3)

Management contract or compensatory plan or
  arrangement.

20