10-K


a05-1139_110k.htm

10-K

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

OCTOBER 30, 2004

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended

OCTOBER 30,

Commission File No.

1-2402

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

41-0319970

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

1 HORMEL PLACE AUSTIN, MINNESOTA

(Address of principal executive offices)

55912-3680

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code

(507) 437-5611

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.0586 PER SHARE

Title of each class

NEW
  YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Name of each exchange on which registered

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act). Yes

x

No

o

The aggregate market value
of the voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as
of April 24, 2004, (the last business day of the registrant’s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter), was $2,289,051,474 based on the
closing price of $31.04 per share on that date.

As of December 31,
2004, the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of
common stock was as follows:

Common Stock, $.0586 Par
Value—138,104,985 shares

Common Stock Non-Voting,
$.01 Par Value—0 shares

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual
Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 30, 2004, are incorporated
by reference into Part I and Part II Items 5-8, and included as
exhibit 13.1 filed herewith.

Portions
of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of the Stockholders to be held January 25,
2005, are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14.


HORMEL FOODS
CORPORATION

TABLE
OF CONTENTS


PART I

Item
1.

BUSINESS

(a)

General Development of Business

Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the
Company), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, as
George A. Hormel & Company. The Company started as a processor of meat
and food products and continues in this line of business. The Company name was
changed to Hormel Foods Corporation on January 31, 1995. The Company is
primarily engaged in the production of a variety of meat and food products and
the marketing of those products throughout the United States. Although pork and
turkey remain the major raw materials for Hormel products, the Company has
emphasized for several years the manufacture and distribution of branded,
consumer packaged items rather than the commodity fresh meat business.

The Company’s branding strategy led to the development
of a joint venture between Hormel Foods Corporation and Cargill Meat Solutions Corporation (formerly Excel
Corporation), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cargill Incorporated.
This joint venture began marketing and selling nationally branded fresh case
ready beef and pork under the existing HORMEL ALWAYS TENDER brand name in
fiscal year 2003. This 51 percent owned joint venture,
named Precept Foods, LLC, is
based in Austin, Minn.

In fiscal 2001, the Jennie-O Turkey Store, Inc. (JOTS) business was formed
as a result of merging the Company’s existing Jennie-O Foods, Inc.
business with the operations of The Turkey Store Company, which was acquired in
the second quarter of fiscal 2001. The Turkey Store Company was a turkey
processing business headquartered in Barron, Wisconsin. The merged JOTS
operation is currently the largest turkey processor in the world. JOTS markets
its turkey products through its own sales force and independent brokers.

The acquisitions of Diamond Crystal Brands Nutritional
Products in fiscal 2001 and the Century Foods International business in July of
fiscal 2003 strengthened the Company’s presence in the nutritional food
products and supplements market. The Company currently operates as one of the
largest companies providing nutritional products to the U.S. healthcare
industry.

The Company acquired the Diamond Crystal Brands, Inc. business from Imperial
Sugar Co. in December of fiscal 2003. Diamond Crystal Brands packages and
sells various sugar, sugar substitute, salt and pepper products, savory
products, drink mixes, and dessert mixes to retail and foodservice customers.

During the
third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company completed the sale of Vista
International Packaging, Inc., its food packaging subsidiary in Kenosha,
Wisconsin.

The Company acquired the assets of Concept Foods Inc.
(Concept) in October of fiscal 2004. Concept was renamed Alma Foods, LLC upon acquisition, and
manufactures a wide variety of fully cooked entrees.

On December 29, 2004, subsequent to the fiscal
2004 year end, the Company acquired all of the stock of Clougherty Packing
Company (Clougherty). Clougherty is a privately held Southern California pork
processor and creator of the “Farmer John” brand of pork products popular
throughout the Southwestern United States.

Internationally, the Company markets its products
through Hormel Foods International Corporation (HFIC), a wholly owned
subsidiary. HFIC has a presence in the international marketplace through joint
ventures and placement of personnel in strategic foreign locations such as
China, Australia, and the Philippines. HFIC also has a global presence with
minority positions in food companies in Mexico (Hormel Alimentos, 50% holding)
and the Philippines (Purefoods-Hormel, 40% holding).


The Company has not been involved in any bankruptcy,
receivership, or similar proceedings during its history. Substantially all of
the assets of the Company have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business.

The Company had no
significant change in the type of products produced or services rendered, or in
the markets or methods of distribution since the beginning of the fiscal year.

(b)

Industry Segment

The Company’s business is
reported in five segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated Foods, Jennie-O
Turkey Store, Specialty Foods, and All Other. The contributions of each segment
to net sales to unaffiliated customers and operating profit, and the
presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in
Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the year ended October 30,
2004, incorporated herein by reference.

(c)

Description of Business

Products and
Distribution

The
Company’s products primarily consist of meat and other food products. The meat
products are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked, and canned. The
percentages of total revenues contributed by classes of similar products for
the last three fiscal years of the Company are as follows:

Reporting of revenues from external customers is based
on similarity of products, as the same or similar products are sold across
multiple distribution channels such as retail, foodservice, or international. Revenues
reported are based on financial information used to produce the Company’s
general-purpose financial statements.

Perishable meat includes fresh meats, sausages, hams,
wieners, and bacon (excluding JOTS products.) 
Nonperishable meat includes canned luncheon meats, shelf stable
microwaveable entrees, stews, chilies, hash, meat spreads and other items that
do not require refrigeration, as well as frozen processed products. The Poultry
category is composed primarily of JOTS products. The Other category primarily
consists of nutritional food products and supplements, sugar and sugar
substitutes, salt and pepper products, dessert mixes, and industrial gelatin
products. The Other category has increased over the past two years primarily
due to the acquisitions of Century Foods International (July 2003) and
Diamond Crystal Brands (December 2002).

In fiscal 2004, the Company launched the Tetra Recart
packaging design for its

Hormel

and

Stagg

chili brands. The launch included the national
roll-out of

Stagg

chili, which had previously been
sold only in markets west of the Mississippi River. The Company also introduced

Jennie-O
Turkey Store

Oven Ready Turkey in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Additionally,
the Company is currently marketing its

new

SPAM Singles

product in four test markets. These three
initiatives are proceeding on target with Company expectations.

No other new product in fiscal 2004 required a
material investment of the Company assets.


Domestically, the Company sells its products in all 50
states. Hormel products are sold through Company sales personnel, operating in
assigned territories coordinated from sales offices located in most of the
larger U.S. cities, as well as independent brokers and distributors. During
fiscal 2004, dedicated sales teams were also developed to serve major retail
customers and coordinate sales of both Grocery Products and Refrigerated Foods
products. As of October 30, 2004, the Company had approximately 550 sales
personnel engaged in selling its products. Distribution of products to
customers is by common carrier.

Through HFIC, the Company
markets its products in various locations throughout the world. Some of the
larger markets include Australia, Canada, China, England, Japan, Mexico, and
Micronesia. The distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier,
while the China operations own and operate their own delivery system. The
Company, through HFIC, has licensed companies to manufacture various Hormel
products internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees being
Tulip International of Denmark and CJ Corp. of South Korea.

Raw Materials

The Company has, for the past several years, been
concentrating on processed branded products for consumers with year-round
demand to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity type
products. Pork continues to be the primary raw material for Company products. Although
hog producers are moving toward larger, more efficient year-round confinement
operations and supply contracts are becoming increasingly prevalent in the
industry, there is still a seasonal variation in the supply of fresh pork
materials. The Company’s expanding line of processed items has reduced but not
eliminated the sensitivity of Company results to raw material supply and price
fluctuations.

Livestock slaughtered by the Company is purchased by
Company buyers and commission dealers at sale barns and terminal markets or
under long-term supply contracts at locations principally in Minnesota,
Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, and
South Dakota. The cost of livestock and the utilization of the Company’s
facilities are affected by both the level and the methods of pork production in
the United States. The hog production industry has been rapidly moving to very
large, vertically integrated, year-round confinement operations operating under
long-term supply agreements. This has resulted in fewer hogs being available on
the spot cash market, which decreases the supply of hogs on the open market and
can severely diminish the utilization of slaughter facilities and increase the
cost of the raw materials they produce. The Company, along with others in the
industry, uses long-term supply contracts to manage the effects of this trend
and to assure a stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme
fluctuations in costs over the long-term. This may result in costs for live
hogs that are either higher or lower than the spot cash market depending on the
relationship of the cash spot market to contract prices. Contract costs are
fully reflected in the Company’s reported financial results. In fiscal 2004,
the Company purchased 67 percent of its hogs under long-term supply contracts.

In fiscal 2004, JOTS
raised approximately 54 percent of the turkeys needed to meet its raw material
requirements for whole bird and processed turkey products. Turkeys not sourced
within the Company are contracted with independent turkey growers. JOTS’
turkey-raising farms are located throughout Minnesota and Wisconsin. Production
costs in raising turkeys are primarily subject to fluctuations in feed grain
prices and to a lesser extent fuel costs. As part of the Company’s risk
management program, the Company periodically hedges its anticipated purchases
of grain using futures contracts. The Company measures the effectiveness of
these hedges on a regular basis and has determined all such hedges to be highly
effective in reducing the Company’s exposure to price fluctuations in the cash
grain market.


Manufacturing

The Company has plants in Austin, Minnesota; Fremont,
Nebraska; and Beijing, China that slaughter livestock for processing. Quality
Pork Processors of Dallas, Texas, operates the slaughter facility at Austin
under a custom slaughter arrangement.

Facilities that produce manufactured items are located
in Algona, Iowa; Alma, Kansas; Aurora, Illinois; Austin, Minnesota; Beloit,
Wisconsin; Bondurant, Iowa; Browerville, Minnesota; Ft. Dodge, Iowa; Fremont,
Nebraska; Houston, Texas; Knoxville, Iowa; Long Prairie, Minnesota; Mitchellville,
Iowa; Osceola, Iowa; Perrysburg, Ohio; Quakertown, Pennsylvania; Rochelle,
Illinois; Savannah, Georgia; Sparta, Wisconsin; Stockton, California; Tucker,
Georgia; Visalia, California; Wichita, Kansas; Beijing, China; and Shanghai,
China. Company products are also custom manufactured by several other companies.
The following are the Company’s larger custom manufacturers: Lakeside Packing
Company, Manitowoc, Wisconsin; Schroeder Milk, Maplewood, Minnesota; Steuben
Foods, Jamaica, New York; Power Packaging, St. Charles, Illinois; Criders,
Stilmore, Georgia; and Tony Downs, St. James, Minnesota. Power Logistics, Inc.,
based in St. Charles, Illinois, operates distribution centers for the Company
in Dayton, Ohio, and Osceola, Iowa.

The Company’s turkey slaughter
and processing operations are located in Barron, Wisconsin; Faribault,
Minnesota; Melrose, Minnesota; Montevideo, Minnesota; Pelican Rapids,
Minnesota; and Willmar, Minnesota.

Patents and
Trademarks

There are numerous patents and trademarks that are
important to the Company’s business. The Company holds seven foreign and 48
U.S. issued patents. Some of the trademarks are registered and some are not. In
recognition of the importance of these assets, the Company created a
subsidiary, Hormel Foods, LLC, in 1998 to create, own, maintain and protect
most of the Company’s trademarks and patents. Some of the more significant
owned or licensed trademarks used in the Company’s segments are:

HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER,
AMERICAN CLASSICS, AUSTIN BLUES, BLACK LABEL, CARAPELLI, CHI-CHI’S, CURE 81,
CUREMASTER, DAN’S PRIZE, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, DUBUQUE, EL TORITO, FAST ‘N
EASY, HERB-OX, HERDEZ, HOMELAND, HOUSE OF TSANG, JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE, KID’S
KITCHEN, LAYOUT, LITTLE SIZZLERS, MARRAKESH EXPRESS, MARY KITCHEN, OLD SMOKEHOUSE,
PATAK’S, PELOPONNESE, PILLOW PACK, RANGE BRAND, ROSA, SANDWICH MAKER, SPAM,
STAGG, SWEET THING, THICK & EASY and WRANGLERS.

Customers and
Backlog Orders

During fiscal year 2004,
no customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total Company sales. The five
largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following
percentage of segment sales: 33 percent of Grocery Products, 35 percent of
Refrigerated Foods, 32 percent of JOTS, 37 percent of Specialty Foods, and 40
percent of All Other. The loss of one or more of the top customers in any of
these segments could have a material adverse effect on the results of such
segment. Backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a
large portion of the products. Orders are accepted and shipped on a current
basis.

Competition

The production and sale of meat and food products in
the United States and internationally are highly competitive. The Company
competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as well as national and
regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken,
and fish. The Company


believes that its largest domestic competitors for its
Refrigerated Foods segment in 2004 were Tyson Foods, Smithfield Foods and
ConAgra Foods; for its Grocery Products segment, ConAgra Foods, Dial Corp. and
Campbell Soup Co.; and for JOTS, ConAgra Foods and Cargill, Inc.

All Hormel segments compete on the basis of price,
product quality, brand identification, and customer service. Through aggressive
marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the Company’s strategy is to
provide higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which
would then support higher value perceptions from customers.

The Company competes using
this same strategy in international markets around the world.

Research and
Development

Research and development
continues to be a vital part of the Company’s strategy to extend existing
brands and expand into new branded items. The expenditures for research and
development for fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, were approximately
$15,944,000, $13,165,000, and $12,097,000. There are 51 professional employees
engaged in full time research, 23 in the area of improving existing products
and 28 in developing new products.

Employees

As of October 30,
2004, the Company had approximately 15,600 active employees.

(d)

Geographic Areas

Total
revenues attributed to the U.S. and all foreign countries in total for the last
three fiscal years of the Company are as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended

October 30, 2004

October 25, 2003

October 26, 2002

United States

4,565,134

4,027,520

3,706,104

Foreign

214,741

172,808

204,210

4,779,875

4,200,328

3,910,314

Revenues from external
customers are classified as domestic or foreign based on the final customer
destination. No individual foreign country is material to the consolidated
results. Additionally, the company’s long-lived assets located in foreign
countries are not significant.

(e)

Available Information

The Company makes available, free of charge on its
website at

www.hormel.com

, its annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These reports are accessible
under the “Investor” caption of the Company’s website and are available as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is within 24 hours.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethical Business
Conduct that covers its officers and directors, which is available on the
Company’s website, free of charge, under the caption “Corporate.”  The Company also adopted Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, under
the caption “Investor.”

The Company’s Board of Directors conducts its business
through meetings of the Board and the following standing committees:  Audit, Compensation, Contingency, Governance,
Employee Benefits, and


Executive. Each of the Audit, Compensation,
Governance, Employee Benefits, and Executive Committees has adopted and
operates under a written charter. Charters for the Audit, Compensation, and
Governance Committees are available on the Company’s website, free of charge,
under the caption “Investor — Corporate Governance.”

The documents noted above
are also available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests
them.

(f)

Executive Officers of the Registrant


No family relationship exists among the executive
officers.

Executive officers are elected annually by the Board
of Directors at the first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular or
special meeting.


Item
2.

PROPERTIES


*

Acres

Many of these properties
are not exclusive to any one of the Company’s segments and a few of the properties
are utilized in all five segments of the Company. The Company has renovation or
building projects in progress at Austin, Minnesota; Fremont, Nebraska;
Rochelle, Illinois; Osceola, Iowa; Bondurant, Iowa; and at various JOTS
locations. The Company believes its operating facilities are well maintained
and suitable for current production volumes and all volumes anticipated in the
foreseeable future.

Item 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company knows of no
pending material legal proceedings.


Item 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A

VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted
to shareholders during the fourth quarter of the 2004 fiscal year.

PART II

Item
5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT

’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

The high and low closing price of the Company’s Common
Stock and the dividends per share declared for each fiscal quarter of 2004 and
2003, respectively, are shown below:


High

Low

Dividend

First Quarter

$

27.45

$

23.80

$

.1125

Second Quarter

31.04

26.54

.1125

Third Quarter

31.63

29.06

.1125

Fourth Quarter

29.70

26.00

.1125


High

Low

Dividend

First Quarter

$

24.30

$

21.76

$

.1050

Second Quarter

22.60

20.18

.1050

Third Quarter

24.98

22.41

.1050

Fourth Quarter

24.15

21.25

.1050

Additional information about dividends, principal
market of trade and number of stockholders on page 49 of the Annual
Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 30, 2004, is incorporated
herein by reference. The Company’s Common Stock has been listed on the New York
Stock Exchange since January 16, 1990.

Issuer purchases of equity securities in the fourth quarter
of fiscal year 2004 are shown below:

Period

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased

(1)

Average Price

Paid Per Share

Total Number of Shares

Purchased as Part of

Publicly Announced

Plans or Programs

(2)

Maximum Number of

Shares that May Yet Be

Purchased Under the

Plans or Programs

(2)

July 25,
  2004 - August 28, 2004

261,700

$

28.39

261,700

9,029,072

August 29,
  2004 - September 25, 2004

354,700

27.11

354,300

8,674,772

September 26,
  2004 - October 30, 2004

276,400

26.62

276,400

8,398,372

Total

892,800

$

27.34

892,400

(

1)

Shares
repurchased during the quarter, other than through publicly announced plans or
programs, represent purchases for the Company’s employee awards program.

(2)

In October 2002,
the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to

10,000,000 shares of common
stock with no expiration date.

Item
6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Selected Financial Data
for the five years ended October 30, 2004, on page 16 of the Annual
Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 30, 2004, is incorporated
herein by reference.


Item 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

Information in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 16 through 29 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for
the year ended October 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE

DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information on the Company’s
exposure to market risk is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 29 of the Annual
Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 30, 2004, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated Financial
Statements, including unaudited quarterly data, on pages 31 through 46 and
the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on page 30 of
the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 30, 2004, are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.

CHANGES IN AND
DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

Item 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures.

As
of the end of the period covered by this report (the “Evaluation Date”), we
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). Based upon
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date, our disclosure controls and
procedures were adequately designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time
periods specified in applicable rules and forms.

(b)

Internal Controls.

During
the last quarter of fiscal year 2004, there has been no change in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Item
9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART III

Item 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information under “Item 1—Election of Directors,”
contained on pages 3 and 4 and under “Board of Director and Committee
Meetings,” on pages 6 and 7, and the second sentence of the second
paragraph under “Audit Committee Report,” contained on page 7 of the definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 25,
2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

Information concerning Executive Officers is set forth
in Item 1(f) of Part I pursuant to Instruction 3, Paragraph (b) of
Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

Information under “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance,” on page 18 of the definitive proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 25,
2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted a
Code of Ethical Business Conduct in compliance with applicable rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission that applies to its principal executive
officer, its principal financial officer, and its principal accounting officer
or controller, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of the Code of
Ethical Business Conduct is available on the Company’s website at

www.hormel.com

, free of charge, under the caption, “Corporate.”  The Company intends to satisfy any disclosure
requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to,
or waiver from, a provision of this Code of Ethical Business Conduct by posting
such information on the Company’s website at the address and location specified
above.

Item 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information for the year
ended October 30, 2004, commencing with “Summary Compensation Table” on page 13
through page 16 and “Compensation of Directors” on page 7 of the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 25,
2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND

MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information for the year
ended October 30, 2004, under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners” and “Security Ownership of Management” on pages 9 and 10, and
information under “Equity Compensation Plan Information” on page 17 of the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 25,
2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information under “Related
Party Transactions” for the year ended October 30, 2004, as set forth on page 18
of the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held January 25, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
AND SERVICES

The information under the “Payment
of Fees to Auditors” on page 8 of the Company’s definitive proxy statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 25, 2005, is
incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The response to Item 15 is submitted as a separate
section of this report.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

By:

/s/ JOEL W. JOHNSON

January 13,

JOEL W. JOHNSON,

Chairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

Date

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.



F-1

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 15

LIST OF FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULE

LIST OF EXHIBITS

YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 30,

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

Austin, Minnesota


F-2

Item

LIST
OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

HORMEL FOODS
CORPORATION

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following consolidated financial statements of
Hormel Foods Corporation included in the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the
year ended October 30, 2004, are incorporated herein by reference in Item
8 of Part II of this report:

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position

—

October 30,
2004, and October 25, 2003

.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

—Years
Ended October 30, 2004, October 25, 2003 and October 26, 2002.

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’
Investment

—Years Ended October 30, 2004, October 25,
2003, and October 26, 2002.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

—Years
Ended October 30, 2004, October 25, 2003, and October 26, 2002.

Notes to Financial
Statements

—

October 30, 2004

.

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The following consolidated
financial statement schedule of Hormel Foods Corporation required pursuant to
Item 15(c) is submitted herewith:

Schedule II—Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves...F-3

All other schedules for
which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES OMITTED

Condensed parent company
financial statements of the registrant are omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of
Article 5 of Regulation S-X.


F-3

SCHEDULE II—VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

HORMEL FINANCIAL
SERVICES CORPORATION

(In
Thousands)

Note (1)

—

Uncollectible accounts written off.

Note (2)

—

Recoveries on accounts previously written off.

Note (3)

—

Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion of Diamond
Crystal Brands accounts receivable.

Note (4)

—

Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion of Century
Foods International accounts receivable.


LIST OF EXHIBITS

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION


(1)

Document has
previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is incorporated
herein by reference.

(2)

These
Exhibits transmitted via EDGAR.

(3)

Management
compensatory plan.

21