10-K


a08-30826_110k.htm

10-K

Table
of Contents

ANNUAL
REPORT ON FORM 10-K

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

OCTOBER
26, 2008

Table
of Contents

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission
File Number: 1-2402

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(507)
437-5611

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.0586 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not
  check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act).  Yes

o

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of April 27, 2008, (the last business
day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter), was
$2,803,268,075 based on the closing price of $39.57 per share on that date.

As
of December 1, 2008, the number of share outstanding of each of the registrant’s
classes of common stock was as follows:

Common
Stock, $.0586 Par Value – 134,526,092 shares

Common
Stock Non-Voting, $.01 Par Value – 0 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

Portions
of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008,
are incorporated by reference into Part I Items 1 and 1A, and Part II
Items 5-8 and 9A, and included as Exhibit 13.1 filed herewith.

Portions
of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 27,
2009, are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14.



HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION




PART I

Item
1.

BUSINESS

(a)

General Development of Business

Hormel Foods Corporation,
a Delaware corporation (the Company), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891
in Austin, Minnesota, as George A. Hormel & Company.  The Company started as a processor of meat
and food products and continues in this line of business.  The Company name was changed to Hormel Foods
Corporation on January 31, 1995. 
The Company is primarily engaged in the production of a variety of meat
and food products and the marketing of those products throughout the United
States and internationally.  Although
pork and turkey remain the major raw materials for its products, the Company
has emphasized for several years the manufacturing and distribution of branded,
value-added consumer items rather than the commodity fresh meat business.  The Company has continually expanded its
product portfolio through organic growth, new product development, and
acquisitions.

In June 2008, the Company acquired Boca Grande Foods, Inc.
(Boca Grande).  Boca Grande manufactures,
sells, and distributes liquid portion products and operates a facility in Duluth,
Georgia.

Internationally, the
Company markets its products through Hormel Foods International Corporation
(HFIC), a wholly owned subsidiary.  HFIC
has a presence in the international marketplace through joint ventures and placement
of personnel in strategic foreign locations such as Australia, Canada, China,
Japan, and the Philippines.  HFIC also
has a global presence with minority positions in food companies in Mexico
(Hormel Alimentos, 50% holding) and the Philippines (Purefoods-Hormel, 40%
holding), and in a hog production and processing operation in Vietnam (San
Miguel Purefoods (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., 49% holding).

The Company has
not been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceedings
during its history.  Substantially all of
the assets of the Company have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business.

The Company had no
significant change in the type of products produced or services rendered, or in
the markets or methods of distribution since the beginning of the 2008 fiscal
year.

(b)

Segments

The
Company’s business is reported in five segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated
Foods, Jennie-O Turkey Store (JOTS), Specialty Foods, and All Other.  Net sales to unaffiliated customers and
operating profit, and the presentation of certain other financial information
by segment, are reported in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the
year ended October 26, 2008, incorporated herein by reference.

(c)

Description of Business

Products and Distribution

The Company’s
products primarily consist of meat and other food products.  The meat products are sold fresh, frozen,
cured, smoked, cooked, and canned.  The
percentages of total revenues contributed by classes of similar products for
the last three fiscal years of the Company are as follows:

Reporting of
revenues from external customers is based on similarity of products, as the
same or similar products are sold across multiple distribution channels such as
retail, foodservice, or international. 
Revenues reported are based on financial information used to produce the
Company’s general-purpose financial statements.

Perishable meat
includes fresh meats, sausages, hams, wieners, and bacon (excluding JOTS
products). The Poultry category is composed primarily of JOTS products.  Shelf-stable includes canned luncheon meats,
shelf-stable microwaveable entrees, stews, chilies, hash, meat spreads, flour
and corn tortillas, salsas, tortilla chips, and other items that do not require
refrigeration.  The Other category
primarily consists of nutritional food products and supplements, sugar and
sugar substitutes, creamers, salt and pepper products, sauces and salad dressings,
dessert and drink mixes, and industrial gelatin products.


Table of
Contents

During fiscal 2008, the Company expanded its value-added production
capacity in several locations, including Browerville, Minnesota; Pelican
Rapids, Minnesota; Tucker, Georgia; and Visalia, California.  Additionally, construction began on a new
production facility in Dubuque, Iowa, which will be used for production of
canned items and the

Hormel Compleats

line of microwave meals.  No other new
products in fiscal 2008 required a material investment of the Company’s assets.

Domestically, the Company
sells its products in all 50 states.  The
Company’s products are sold through its sales personnel, operating in assigned
territories coordinated from sales offices located in most of the larger U.S.
cities, as well as independent brokers and distributors.  Dedicated sales teams also serve major retail
customers and coordinate sales of both Grocery Products and Refrigerated Foods
products.  As of October 26, 2008,
the Company had approximately 608 sales personnel engaged in selling its
products.  Distribution of products to
customers is primarily by common carrier.

Through HFIC, the
Company markets its products in various locations throughout the world.  Some of the larger markets include Australia,
Canada, China, England, Japan, Mexico, and Micronesia.  The distribution of export sales to customers
is by common carrier, while the China operations own and operate their own
delivery system.  The Company, through
HFIC, has licensed companies to manufacture various Hormel products
internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees being Tulip
International of Denmark and CJ Corporation of South Korea.

Raw Materials

The Company has,
for the past several years, been concentrating on processed branded products
for consumers with year-round demand to minimize the seasonal variation
experienced with commodity-type products. 
Pork continues to be the primary raw material for Company products.  Although the live pork industry has evolved
to large, vertically integrated, year-round confinement operations, and supply
contracts have become prevalent in the industry, there is still a seasonal
variation in the supply of fresh pork materials.  The Company’s expanding line of processed
items has reduced, but not eliminated, the sensitivity of Company results to
raw material supply and price fluctuations.

The majority of
the hogs harvested by the Company are purchased under supply contracts from
producers located principally in Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas,
Minnesota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Wisconsin, and
Canada.  The cost of hogs and the
utilization of the Company’s facilities are affected by both the level and the
methods of pork production in the United States.  The movement toward year-round confinement
operations which operate under supply agreements with processors has resulted
in fewer hogs being available on the spot cash market.  The Company, along with others in the
industry, uses supply contracts to manage the effects of this trend and to
ensure a stable supply of raw materials. 
The Company has converted the majority of its contracts to market-based
formulas to better match input costs with customer pricing, and all contract
costs are fully reflected in the Company’s reported financial statements.  In fiscal 2008, the Company purchased 91
percent of its hogs under supply contracts. 
The Company also procures a portion of its hogs through farms that it
either owns or operates in Arizona, California, Colorado, Kansas, and Wyoming.

In fiscal 2008,
JOTS raised turkeys representing approximately 67 percent of the volume needed
to meet its raw material requirements for whole bird and processed turkey
products.  Turkeys not sourced within the
Company are contracted with independent turkey growers.  JOTS’ turkey-raising farms are located
throughout Minnesota and Wisconsin.

Production costs
in raising hogs and turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in feed grain
prices and, to a lesser extent, fuel costs. 
To manage this risk, the Company periodically hedges its anticipated
purchases of grain using futures contracts.

Manufacturing

The Company has
plants in Austin, Minnesota; Fremont, Nebraska; Vernon, California; and
Beijing, China that harvest hogs for processing.  Quality Pork Processors, Inc. of Dallas,
Texas, operates the harvesting facility at Austin under a custom harvesting
arrangement.

Facilities that
produce and distribute manufactured items are located in Albert Lea, Minnesota;
Algona, Iowa; Alma, Kansas; Ames, Iowa; Aurora, Illinois; Austin, Minnesota;
Beloit, Wisconsin; Bondurant, Iowa; Bremen, Georgia; Browerville, Minnesota;
Chino, California; Dayton, Ohio; Duluth, Georgia; Eldridge, Iowa; Ft. Dodge,
Iowa; Fremont, Nebraska; Knoxville, Iowa; Lathrop, California; Long Prairie,
Minnesota; Mitchellville, Iowa; Nevada, Iowa; New Berlin, Wisconsin; Osceola,
Iowa; Perrysburg, Ohio; Quakertown, Pennsylvania; Rochelle, Illinois; San
Leandro, California; Savannah, Georgia; Sparta, Wisconsin; St. Paul, Minnesota;
Stockton, California; Tucker, Georgia; Turlock, California; Vernon, California;
Visalia, California; Wichita, Kansas; Beijing, China; and Shanghai, China.  Albert Lea Select Foods, Inc. of Dallas,
Texas, operates the processing facility at Albert Lea under a custom
manufacturing agreement.  Company
products are also custom manufactured by several other companies.  The following are the Company’s larger custom
manufacturers: Steuben Foods, Jamaica, New York; Lakeside Packing Company,
Manitowoc, Wisconsin; Schroeder Milk, Maplewood, Minnesota; Reichel Foods,
Rochester, Minnesota; Power Packaging, St. Charles, Illinois; and Tony Downs,
St. James, Minnesota.  Power Logistics, Inc.,
based in St. Charles, Illinois, operates distribution centers for the Company
in Dayton, Ohio, and Osceola, Iowa.

The Company’s
turkey harvest and processing operations are located in Barron, Wisconsin;
Faribault, Minnesota; Melrose, Minnesota; Montevideo, Minnesota; Pelican
Rapids, Minnesota; and Willmar, Minnesota.


Table of
Contents

Patents and Trademarks

There are numerous
patents and trademarks that are important to the Company’s business.  The Company holds 9 foreign and 49
U.S.-issued patents.  Some of the
trademarks are registered and some are not. 
Some of the more significant owned or licensed trademarks used in the
Company’s segments are:

HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER, AMERICAN CLASSICS, AUSTIN BLUES, BANGKOK PADANG,
BLACK LABEL, BREAD READY, BÚFALO, CAFÉ H, CALIFORNIA NATURAL, CARAPELLI,
CHI-CHI’S, COMPLEATS, CURE 81, CUREMASTER, DAN’S PRIZE, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE,
DODGER DOGS, DOÑA MARIA, DUBUQUE, FARMER JOHN, FAST ‘N EASY, GRANDE GOURMET,
HERB-OX, HERDEZ, HIBACHI GRILL, HOMELAND, HOUSE OF TSANG, JENNIE-O TURKEY
STORE, KID’S KITCHEN, LAYOUT, LITTLE SIZZLERS, LLOYD’S, MAGNIFOODS, MANNY’S,
MARRAKESH EXPRESS, MARY KITCHEN, NATURAL CHOICE, NATURASELECT, OLD SMOKEHOUSE,
PELOPONNESE, PILLOW PACK, POCO PAC, PREP CHEF, PREMORO, RANGE BRAND, RICO OLE’,
ROSA GRANDE, SAAG’S, SANDWICH MAKER, SAUCY BLUES, SPAM, SPAMTASTIC, STAGG,
TEZZATA, THICK & EASY, VALLEY FRESH, and WRANGLERS.

The Company’s
patents expire after a term that is typically 20 years from the date of filing,
with earlier expiration possible based on the Company’s decision to pay
required maintenance fees.  As long as
the Company intends to continue using its trademarks, they are renewed
indefinitely.

Customers and Backlog
Orders

During fiscal year 2008, sales to
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart) represented approximately 12 percent of
the Company’s revenues (measured as gross sales less returns and
allowances).  Wal-Mart is a customer for
all five segments of the Company.  The
five largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following
percentage of segment sales: 47 percent of Grocery Products, 37 percent of
Refrigerated Foods, 41 percent of JOTS, 38 percent of Specialty Foods, and 25
percent of All Other.  The loss of one or
more of the top customers in any of these segments could have a material
adverse effect on the results of such segment. 
Backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a
large portion of the products.  Orders
are accepted and shipped on a current basis.

Competition

The production and sale
of meat and food products in the United States and internationally are highly
competitive.  The Company competes with
manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as well as national and regional
producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken, and fish.  The Company believes that its largest
domestic competitors for its Refrigerated Foods segment in 2008 were Tyson
Foods, Smithfield Foods, and Sara Lee Corporation; for its Grocery Products
segment, ConAgra Foods, Pinnacle Foods, and Campbell Soup Co.; and for JOTS,
Cargill, Inc. and Butterball, LLC.

All segments compete on
the basis of price, product quality, brand identification, and customer
service.  Through aggressive marketing
and strong quality assurance programs, the Company’s strategy is to provide
higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which would then
support higher value perceptions from customers.

The Company competes
using this same strategy in international markets around the world.

Research
and Development

Research and
development continues to be a vital part of the Company’s strategy to extend
existing brands and expand into new branded items.  The expenditures for research and development
for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, were approximately $22,689,000, $21,475,000,
and $18,631,000, respectively.   There
are 91 employees engaged in full time research and development, 46 in the area
of improving existing products and 45 in developing new products.

Employees

As of October 26,
2008, the Company had approximately 19,100 active employees.

(d)

Geographic Areas

Financial
information about geographic areas, including total revenues attributed to the
U.S. and all foreign countries in total for the last three fiscal years of the
Company, is reported in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the year ended October 26,
2008, incorporated herein by reference.


Table
of Contents

(e)

Available Information

The Company makes
available, free of charge on its Web site at www.hormelfoods.com, its annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.  These reports are accessible under
the “Investors” caption of the Company’s Web site and are available as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The documents
noted above are also available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who
requests them.

(f)

Executive Officers of the Registrant


Table
of Contents

(f)

Executive Officers of the Registrant-Continued

No family relationship exists among the executive officers.

Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the
first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Vacancies may be filled and additional
officers elected at any regular or special meeting.



Item 1A.

RISK
FACTORS

Information on the
Company’s risk factors included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 31 through 33 of
the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1B.

UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS

None.

Item 2.

PROPERTIES


Table
of Contents

Item 2.

PROPERTIES
- - Continued



Item 2.

PROPERTIES
- - Continued

(1)

Many of the
Company’s properties are not exclusive to any one segment, and a few of the
properties are utilized in all five segments. 
For locations that support multiple segments, but with a substantial
percentage of activity attributable to certain segments, only the principal
segments have been listed.

(2)

Plant currently
under construction

(3)

Acres

The Company has
renovation or building projects in progress at Albert Lea, Minnesota; Austin,
Minnesota; Dubuque, Iowa; and Las Animas, Colorado.  The Company believes its operating facilities
are well maintained and suitable for current production volumes, and expansion
plans are in process to accommodate all volumes anticipated in the foreseeable
future.

Item 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is a
party to various legal proceedings related to the on-going operation of its
business.  The resolution of any
currently known matters is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

Item 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
SECURITY HOLDERS

No
matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth quarter of the 2008
fiscal year.



PART II

Item 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The high and low sales
prices of the Company’s common stock and the dividends per share declared for
each fiscal quarter of 2008 and 2007, respectively, are shown below:

Additional information
about dividends, principal market of trade, and number of stockholders on page 57
of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008, is
incorporated herein by reference.  The
Company’s common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since January 16,
1990.

Issuer purchases of
equity securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 are shown below:

(1)

The
163 shares repurchased during the quarter, other than through publicly
announced plans or programs, represent purchases for the Company’s employee
awards program.

(2)

On October 2,
2002, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the
Company to repurchase up to

10,000,000 shares
of common stock

with no expiration date.

Item 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

Selected Financial Data for the five years ended October 26,
2008, on page 17 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26,
2008, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Information in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 18 through 35 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for
the year ended October 26, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information on the
Company’s exposure to market risk included in the Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 34 and
35 of the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008,
is incorporated herein by reference.


Table
of Contents

Item 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated Financial
Statements, including unaudited quarterly data, on pages 39 through 56 and
the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on page 38 of
the Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008, are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.

CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

Item 9A.

CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

As of the end of
the period covered by this report (the Evaluation Date), the Company carried
out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)). In designing and
evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that
any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based
on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date, our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we
are required to disclose in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control over
Financial Reporting

(a)

The
report entitled “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting” on page 36 of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the year
ended October 26, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

The
report entitled “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” on page 37
of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the year ended October 26, 2008, is
incorporated herein by reference.

(c)

During
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, there has been no change in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

Item 10.

DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information under “Item 1 - Election of Directors” on pages 2
through 4, information under “Board Independence” on page 5, and
information under “Board of Director and Committee Meetings” on page 6 of
the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held January 27, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

Information
concerning Executive Officers is set forth in Item 1(f) of Part I
pursuant to Instruction 3, Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

Information under “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance,” on page 30 of the definitive proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 27,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has
adopted a Code of Ethical Business Conduct in compliance with applicable rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission that applies to its principal executive
officer, its principal financial officer, and its principal accounting officer
or controller, or persons performing similar functions. A copy of the Code of
Ethical Business Conduct is available on the Company’s Web site at
www.hormelfoods.com, free of charge, under the caption, “Investors – Corporate
Governance.” The Company intends to satisfy any disclosure requirement under
Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a
provision of this Code of Ethical Business Conduct by posting such information
on the Company’s Web site at the address and location specified above.


Table
of Contents

Item

11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information
commencing with “Executive Compensation” on page 13 through “Potential
Payments Upon Termination at Fiscal 2008 Year End” on pages 29 and 30, and
information under “Compensation of Directors” on pages 8 through 10 of the
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 27,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information
under “Equity Compensation Plan Information” on pages 35 and 36, and
information under “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security
Ownership of Management” on pages 11 through 13 of the definitive proxy
statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 27,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Information
under “Related Party Transactions” on page 30 and “Board Independence” on page 5
of the definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held January 27, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

Information under “Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees” through “Audit Committee Preapproval
Policies and Procedures” on pages 10 and 11 of the Company’s definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 27,
2009, is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The response to Item 15
is submitted as a separate section of this report.


Table
of Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


Table
of Contents

F-1

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 15

LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

LIST OF EXHIBITS

YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 26, 2008

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

Austin, Minnesota



F-2

Item 15

LIST OF
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following
consolidated financial statements of Hormel Foods Corporation included in the
Annual Stockholders’ Report for the year ended October 26, 2008, are
incorporated herein by reference in Item 8 of Part II of this report:

Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position—

October 26, 2008, and October 28,
2007.

Consolidated Statements of
Operations—

Years Ended October 26, 2008, October 28,
2007, and October 29, 2006.

Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Investment—

Years Ended
October 26, 2008, October 28, 2007, and October 29, 2006.

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows—

Years Ended October 26, 2008, October 28,
2007, and October 29, 2006.

Notes to
Financial Statements—

October 26, 2008.

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The following
consolidated financial statement schedule of Hormel Foods Corporation required
pursuant to Item 15(c) is submitted herewith:

Schedule
II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves...F-3

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SCHEDULES OMITTED

Condensed parent company
financial statements of the registrant are omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of
Article 5 of Regulation S-X.

All other schedules for
which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.



F-3

SCHEDULE
II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

(In
Thousands)

Note (1)

– Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion
of Boca Grande accounts receivable.

Note (2) –

Uncollectible
accounts written off.

Note (3) –

Recoveries
on accounts previously written off.

Note (4)

– Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion
of Burke and Provena accounts receivable.

Note (5)

– Increase in the reserve due to the inclusion
of Valley Fresh accounts receivable.



LIST OF
EXHIBITS

HORMEL
FOODS CORPORATION

(1)

Document has previously
  been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is incorporated
  herein by reference.

(2)

These exhibits
  transmitted via EDGAR.

(3)

Management contract or
  compensatory plan or arrangement.

18