
10-K
10-K



SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.   20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended October 26, 1996,   Commission File No. 1-2402

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

  		Delaware							    41-0319970	     
(State or other Jurisdiction of				(I.R.S. Employer
 Incorporation or organization)				 Identification No.)
					1 Hormel Place
		     		Austin, Minnesota			55912-3680	
		(Address of principal executive offices)    	(zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code  (507) 437-5611

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

										Name of 
Each Exchange on	
	Title of Each Class							Which 
Registered	

Common Stock,$.1172 Par Value 				New York Stock Exchange	

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:

							None					
			
						(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No   

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non- 
affiliates of the registrant as of December 2, 1996.

	Common Stock--$1,188,168,446

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer's classes 
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date covered by this 
report.


	Common Stock, $.1172 Par Value--77,392,529 shares at December 2, 1996
	Common Stock Non-Voting, $.01 Par Value--0 shares at December 2, 1996

	DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Stockholders' Report for the year ended October 
26, 1996, are incorporated by reference into Part II and included as a 
separate section in the electronic filing to the SEC.

Portions of the proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of the 
Stockholders to be held January 28, 1997, are incorporated by reference 
into Part II and included as a separate section in the electronic filing 
to the SEC.


PART I
Item 1.  BUSINESS

  General Development of Business

	(a)	Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation, was founded 
by 
George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota as George A. Hormel 
& Company.  The Company started as a processor of meat and food 
products and continues in this line of business.  The Company 
name was changed to Hormel Foods Corporation on January 31, 1995.  
The parent company is primarily engaged in the production of a 
variety of meat and food products and the marketing of those 
products throughout the United States.  Although pork remains the 
major raw material for Hormel products, the Company has 
emphasized for several years the manufacture and distribution of 
branded, consumer packaged items rather than the commodity fresh 
meat business closely associated with the industry in the past.  
New product introductions the past few years have emphasized a 
variety of branded turkey products produced and sold under the 
Jennie-O label and the fast growing ethnic food market with Chi-
Chi's line of Mexican foods, House of Tsang oriental sauces and 
food products, and Mediterranean food products under the 
Peloponnese and Melting Pot labels.

		In October 1996, the Company purchased Stagg Foods, Inc., a 
leading West Coast producer of chili and stew products through an 
exchange of stock.  Stagg Foods will be operated as part of the     
main Hormel business.

		The Company's larger subsidiaries include Jennie-O Foods, Inc.; 
Dubuque Foods, Inc.; Farm Fresh Catfish Company; Hormel Foods 
International Corporation and Vista International Packaging, Inc.

		Jennie-O, a Willmar, Minnesota based turkey processor, markets 
its products nationwide through its own sales force and brokers, 
providing the Company with a significant presence in this 
important, and growing segment of the industry.

		Dubuque Foods, Inc. formerly named FDL Marketing, Inc. was 
formed 
in 1985 to be the exclusive marketer of the production of FDL 
Foods, Inc., a Dubuque, Iowa, meat packer.  In July of 1993, the 
Company acquired through two subsidiaries, Dubuque Foods, Inc. 
and Rochelle Foods, Inc., a portion of the assets of FDL Foods.  
Dubuque Foods acquired the FDL Foods brands and trademarks.  
Rochelle Foods acquired the FDL Foods manufacturing operations at 
Rochelle, Illinois.  Rochelle Foods is a co-packer of product for 
both Hormel and Dubuque Foods.  Dubuque Foods has no production 
facilities and contracts with various co-packers to supply 
product under its label.

		Farm Fresh Catfish Company, acquired in 1983, competes in the 
seafood protein segment of the food industry.  Farm Fresh raises, 
slaughters and distributes farm raised catfish primarily in the 
southeastern section of the United States through a network of 
brokers.  Late in 1996 the Company announced its intention to 
exit the fish business.  Details of a pending sale in 1997 were 
not announced.


Item 1.  BUSINESS--CONTINUED


		The Company markets its products internationally through Hormel 
Foods International Corporation.  Hormel Foods International has 
been increasing its presence in the international marketplace 
through joint ventures and placement of personnel in strategic 
foreign locations.  Joint ventures have been established in 
Mexico, China, and Australia.  Hormel International marketing and 
sales personnel are located in England, China and Australia.  
Investment of personnel and capital in the foreign segment of the 
business is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.  
During calendar 1996 minority investments were made in foreign 
food companies in Poland and Spain which should result in 
increased Hormel presence in these areas.

		Vista International Packaging, Inc. imports, customizes, and 
distributes, a variety of natural and artificial casings for the 
meat and food processing industry.

		The Company has not been involved in any bankruptcy, 
receivership 
or similar proceedings during its history.  Substantially all of 
the assets of the Company have been acquired in the ordinary 
course of business.

		The Company had no significant change in the type of products 
produced or services rendered, nor in the markets or methods of 
distribution since the beginning of the fiscal year.


  Industry Segment

	(b)	Hormel Foods Corporation is engaged in a single industry segment 
"Meat and Food Processing".  The meat and food processing 
industry is very competitive with respect to price, marketing and 
customer service.  In addition to meat processing firms, the 
Company competes with consumer packaged food manufacturers as 
well as seafood, poultry and vegetable protein processores.


Description of Business

	(c)	The principal products of the Company are meat and food 
products 
which are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked and canned.

		The percentage of total revenues contributed by classes of 
similar products for the last three fiscal years of the Company 
are as follows:


   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

	Meat Products includes fresh meats, sausages, hams, wieners and 
bacon.  Prepared Foods products include canned luncheon meats, 
shelf stable microwaveable entrees, stews, chilies,
	hash, meat spreads and frozen processed products.  Jennie-O 
turkey and Farm Fresh catfish products are included in the 
Poultry, Fish and Other category.

	Hormel Foods has numerous trademarks and patents which are 
important to the Company's business.  Some of the trademarks 
are registered and some are not.  The more  significant 
trademarks are:  HORMEL, BLACK LABEL, BY GEORGE, CURE 81, 
CUREMASTER, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, FRANK 'N STUFF, HOMELAND, 
LAYOUT PACK, LIGHT & LEAN, LITTLE SIZZLERS, MARY KITCHEN, 
RANGE 
BRAND, ROSA GRANDE, SANDWICH MAKER, SPAM, WRANGLERS, 
JENNIE-O,  
KID'S KITCHEN, FAST 'N EASY, DUBUQUE, QUICK MEAL, OLD 
SMOKEHOUSE, and HOUSE OF TSANG.  The Company holds 16 foreign 
and 23 U. S. patents.

	The Company for the past several years has been concentrating 
on processed, consumer branded products with year round demand 
to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity 
type products.  Pork continues to be the primary raw material 
for Company products and although live pork producers are 
moving toward larger and year round confinement operations, 
there is still a seasonal variation in the supply of fresh pork 
materials.  The expanding line of processed items has reduced 
but not eliminated the sensitivity of Company results to raw 
material supply and price fluctuations.

	Quarterly results for fiscal 1996 and 1995 are reported on page 
29, Note K to the financial statements in the Annual Report to 
Stockholders for 1996.

	On October 26, 1996, the Company had unused lines of credit of 
$10,000,000.  A fee is paid for the availability of fixed 
credit lines.  In October of 1996 the Company completed a 
private placement of Senior Notes for $110,000,000.  The Senior 
Notes will mature October 15, 2002 and October 15, 2006.  Other 
long-term debt consisted of Industrial revenue bonds with 
varying maturities of $7,750,000 and $11,259,000 of promissory 
notes through 2001 secured by limited partnership interests in 
the federal affordable housing program.  No commercial paper 
was outstanding at the end of fiscal 1996.

	During the first quarter of 1997, a minority interest in 
Campofrio Alimentacion, Madrid, Spain was purchased with the 
proceeds of a credit agreement denominated in Spanish pesetas.  
Financial resources and anticipated funds from operations are 
considered adequate to meet normal operating cash requirements 
in 1997.

	The Company has no customers the loss of which would have a 
significant effect on the Company's business.  During fiscal


Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


	year 1996, no customer accounted for more than 5.0% of sales.  
Backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature 
of a large portion of the products and orders are accepted and 
shipped on a current basis.

	The Company continues to develop and introduce new products 
each year.  No new product in 1996 required a material 
investment of Company assets.  Improving and developing new 
products is the responsibility of task forces including 
personnel from operations, marketing, administration, 
engineering, and research and development.  Research and 
development expenditures for fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively, were $8,022,000,$7,829,212 and $7,742,973.  There 
are 29 professional employees engaged in full time research, 11 
in the area of improving existing products and 18 in developing 
new products.

	As of October 26, 1996, the Company had over 11,000 active 
employees.
	
	Livestock slaughtered by the parent company is purchased by 
Company buyers, commission dealers, sale barns and terminal 
markets located principally in Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska and 
South Dakota.  The level of pork production in the United 
States has an impact on Hormel's operations.  Any significant 
decrease in the supply of pork has an adverse effect because of 
higher costs and lower margins coupled with an under-
utilization of Company facilities.  A significant increase in 
the supply of pork normally results in lower costs and higher 
margins.  To minimize supply variations which impact 
profitability the live pork industry is rapidly moving to very 
large, vertically integrated, year round confinement 
operations.  The Company, as well as its major competitors 
continues to analyze options that will allow them to maximize 
the benefits of reduced volatility in the supply of fresh pork.

	Products under the Hormel label are sold in all 50 states by 
the parent Company.  Products are sold by approximately 575 
sales personnel operating in assigned territories coordinated 
from district sales offices located in most of the larger 
United States cities, and by approximately 450 brokers and 
distributors.  Distribution of products to customers is by 
common carrier.

	The parent Company has a plant at Fremont, Nebraska, that 
slaughters livestock for processing.  The slaughter facilities 
at the Austin, Minnesota plant are leased to Quality Pork 
Processors of Dallas, Texas under a custom slaughter 
arrangement with the Company. A subsidiary, Rochelle Foods, 
Inc., Rochelle, Illinois, also provides the Company with needed 
raw materials and product through its pork slaughter and 
processing operation. 


Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


	Facilities that produce manufactured items are located in 
Algona, Iowa; Austin, Minnesota; Beloit, Wisconsin; Aurora, 
Illinois; Davenport, Iowa; Fremont, Nebraska; Knoxville, Iowa; 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Stockton, California; Tucker, Georgia; 
and Wichita, Kansas.  Custom manufacturing for Hormel is 
performed by several companies including Owatonna Canning 
Company, Owatonna, Minnesota; Lakeside Packing Company, 
Plainview, Minnesota; and Western Steer Mom and Pops of 
Claremont, North Carolina.  The Company has under construction 
a processing plant and shipping center in Osceola, Iowa.  This 
facility is expected to be fully operational by May of 1997.


            JENNIE-O FOODS

	Jennie-O Foods, Inc., a Willmar, Minnesota, based turkey 
processor, has turkey raising, slaughter and processing 
operations at various locations within Minnesota.  Jennie-O 
contracts with turkey growers to supplement the turkeys it 
raises to meet its raw material requirements for whole birds 
	and processed turkey products.  As part of Jennie-O's long term 
expansion program, a new plant was opened during 1996 at 
Montevideo, Minnesota which substantially increased Jennie-O's 
processing capacity.

	HORMEL FOODS INTERNATIONAL

	Hormel Foods International Corporation markets the Company's 
products in international areas including the Philippines, 
Japan and various European countries. The Company, through 
Hormel Foods International, has licensed companies to 
manufacture SPAM luncheon meat overseas on a royalty basis, 
principally Newforge Foods Limited in Great Britain.  Hormel 
Foods International owns Hormel FSC, Inc., a foreign sales 
corporation, which engages in export related activities.  
Hormel Foods International has offices in Australia, China and 
England to increase the sales and marketing support in these 
geographical areas of the international marketplace.  During 
1996 minority investments were made in Poz Meats, Poznan, 
Poland and Campofrio Alimentacion, Madrid, Spain.

	FARM FRESH CATFISH

	Farm Fresh Catfish Company operates slaughter and processing 
plants in Arkansas and Mississippi.  Live fish are purchased 
from independent growers to supplement the supply provided by 
its own farms.  Late in 1996 the Company announced its 
intention to exit the fish business.  Details of a pending sale 
in 1997 were not announced.



Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

	VISTA INTERNATIONAL PACKAGING

	Vista International Packaging, Inc., previously a subsidiary of 
Hormel Foods International was switched to a subsidiary of the 
parent company in 1995.  Vista is a food packaging company 
located in Kenosha, Wisconsin which imports, customizes, and 
distributes, a variety of natural and artificial casings for 
the meat and food processing industry.

	DUBUQUE FOODS

		  Dubuque Foods, Inc., formerly called FDL Marketing, Inc., 
		  purchased the brands and trademarks of FDL Foods, Inc.,
		  Dubuque, Iowa, in July of 1993.  FDL Foods also sold its    
            Rochelle, Illinois slaughter and processing operations to 
            Rochelle Foods, Inc., a sister subsidiary of Dubuque Foods.  
            Dubuque Foods has co-packing arrangements with Rochelle Foods 
            and others to manufacture products under its brand names.



   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


	No family relationship exists among the executive officers.
	
	All of the above executive officers have been employed by the 
Registrant in an officer capacity for more than the past five years 
except Mr. Gary Paxton, Director Sausage Production until November 19, 
1990 when he was named Plant Manager of the Austin Plant, on January 
28, 1992 he was elected Vice President, Manufacturing; Mr. Robert A. 
Slavik, Director Meat Products Sales until January 26, 1993 when he 
was elected Vice President, Meat Products Sales; Mr. Jerry C. 
Figenskau, Director of Marketing Services until December 30, 1991 when 
he was named Director Specialty Products, on January 24, 1994 he was 
elected Vice President, Specialty Products;  Mr. Richard A. Bross, 
Director of Grocery Products Marketing until January 3, 1994 when he 
was named General Manager of Grocery Products, on January 30, 1995 he 
was elected Vice President, Grocery Products; Mr. Michael J. McCoy 
Vice President, Treasurer of FDL Foods, Inc. until being employed by 
the Company on special assignment Treasury Division on October 3, 
1994, on November 21, 1994 he was appointed Assistant Treasurer and on 
January 1, 1996 he was elected Treasurer.

	The executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors 
at the first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  
Vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular 
or special meeting.









Item 2.  PROPERTIES
                                  Approximate
						    Floor Space
                                 (Square Feet)  Owned or  Expiration
         Location                 Unless Noted   Leased       Date  

	 Hormel Foods Corporation

         Slaughtering and
         Processing Plants

		 Austin, Minnesota 
		   Slaughter               212,000      Owned  (Leased Out)
		   Processing              924,000      Owned

		 Fremont, Nebraska         636,000      Owned

		 Rochelle, Illinois        430,000      Owned
		  (Rochelle Foods, Inc.)

        	Processing Plants

	 Algona, Iowa              152,000      Owned
	 Austin, Minnesota Annex    82,000      Owned
	 Beloit, Wisconsin         338,000      Owned
	 Davenport, Iowa		         148,000      Owned
	 Ft. Dodge, Iowa		          17,000      Owned  (Leased out)
	 Houston, Texas		           93,000      Owned  (Closed)
	 Knoxville, Iowa           130,000      Owned
	 Oklahoma City, Oklahoma    56,000      Owned
	 Osceola, Iowa                          Owned
           (Under construction)
	      Stockton, California 139,000      Owned
	      Tucker, Georgia      259,000      Owned
	      Wichita, Kansas       75,000      Owned
	       (Dold Foods, Inc.)
	      Aurora, Illinois	     70,000      Leased  January 1998
	       (Creative Contract Packaging Corp.)
		      Aurora, Illinois	    70,000      Owned
			  (Herb-Ox Plant)

	Research and Development
         Center                   

	 Austin, Minnesota          56,000      Owned

	Corporate Offices

	 Austin, Minnesota         119,000      Owned

		Stagg Foods, Inc.
		  Hillsboro, Oregon        100,000       Owned
		Dan's Prize, Inc.
		  Long Prairie, Minnesota    78,999      Owned





Item 2.  PROPERTIES--continued


	Jennie-O Foods, Inc.

		 Willmar, Minnesota
		  Airport Plant location   282,000      Owned
		 Willmar, Minnesota
		  Benson Ave. Plant		   79,000      Owned
		 Melrose, Minnesota Plant  119,000      Owned
		 Turkey farms - acres        9,032      Owned
		 Henning, Minnesota          5,200      Owned
		  Feed Mill
		 Atwater, Minnesota         14,000      Owned
		  Feed Mill
	 Montevideo, MinnPlant      80,000      Owned
	 Pelican Rapids, Minnesota 185,000      Owned
             West Central Turkeys Plant
	
	Farm Fresh Catfish, Inc.

		 Hollandale, Mississippi
		   Plant      			   50,000  Sale in Progress
		 Lake Village, Ark Plant    21,000  Sale in Progress
		 Fish farms - water acres    3,198      Leased  Various

	Vista International Packaging, Inc.

		 Kenosha, Wisconsin Plant   61,000      Owned
		
	    Algona Food Equipment Company (AFECO)

		 Algona, Iowa Plant         45,000      Owned

	The Company has major expansion or renovation projects in 
progress at Austin, Minnesota, Osceola, Iowa, Fremont, 
Nebraska and at various Jennie-O locations.

	The Company believes its operating facilities are well 
maintained and suitable for current production volumes, and 
after the completion of the expansion and renovation 
projects, for all volumes which are anticipated in the 
foreseeable future. The Company is in negotiations for the 
sale of the assets of Farm Fresh Catfish.  The transaction 
will close early in 1997 if the negotiations are successful.

Item 3.	  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

          The Company knows of no pending material legal proceedings.


Item 4.	 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY 
HOLDERS

	No matters were submitted to stockholders during the fourth 
quarter of the 1996 fiscal year.



	




	At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 28, 
	1997 shareholders will vote on a proposed amendment of the 
	Hormel Foods Corporation 1991 Key Employee Stock Option and 
	Award Plan.  The amendment will enable options and awards 
	granted under the Plan to qualify as deductible performance 
	based compensation under Sections 162(m) of the Internal 
	Revenue Code.


							PART II


  Item 5.	 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND 
RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

	Information about Common Stock market prices, dividends,
principal market of trade and number of stockholders on
	pages 32 of the Annual Stockholders' Report for the year 
ended October 26, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.
	The Company's Common Stock has been listed on the New York
	Stock Exchange since January 16, 1990.

	Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

	Selected Financial Data for the ten years ended October 26,
	1996, on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Stockholders' Report 
for the year ended October 26, 1996, is incorporated herein 
by reference.

	Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL
	CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

	Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations on pages 30 and 31 of the Annual 
Stockholders' Report for the year ended October 26, 1996, is 
incorporated herein by reference.

	Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

		    Consolidated Financial Statements, including unaudited
              quarterly data, on pages 20 through 29 and Report of
              Independent Auditors on page 29 of the Annual Stockholders'
              Report for the year ended October 26, 1996 is incorporated
              herein by reference.

	Item 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE

           None.









		  PART III


 Item 10.	DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

	 Information under "Election of Directors", contained on
           pages 3 through 5 of the definitive proxy statement for the
           Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held January 28, 1997,
           is incorporated herein by reference.

           Information concerning Executive Officers is set forth in
           Item 1(d) of Part I pursuant to Instruction 3, Paragraph (b)
           of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

Item  11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

           Information for the year ended October 26, 1996, under
           "Executive Compensation" on pages 7 through 13 and
           "Compensation of Directors" on page 5 of the definitive proxy
           statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
           held January 28, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.

 Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
	MANAGEMENT
           Ownership of securities of the Company by certain beneficial
           owners and management for the year ended October 26, 1996, as
           set forth on pages 6 and 7 of the definitive proxy 
           statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
           January 28, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.

    Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

              Information under "Other Information Relating to Directors,
              Nominees, and Executive Officers" for the year ended
              October 26, 1996, as set forth on page 13 of the
              definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
              Stockholders to be held January 28, 1997, is incorporated    
              herein by reference.





PART IV

    Item 14.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

              AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

              (a)   (1) and (2)--The response to this portion of Item 14 is
                    submitted as a separate section of this report.

                    (3) --List of Exhibits--The response to this portion of
                    Item 14 is submitted as a separate section of this
                    report.

              (b)   The Company filed a Form 8-K on October 15, 1996 
announcing the acquisition, through an exchange of 
stock, of Stagg Foods, Inc., a leading West Coast 
producer of chili and related products.
				
				The Company filed a Form 8-K on October 17, 1996 
announcing that Robert F. Patterson, Group Vice 
President of the Prepared Foods Group, and a Director 
of the Company would retire December 31, 1996.  Eric A. 
Brown, Senior Vice President of the Meat Products Group 
was named to succeed Patterson.

				The Company filed a Form 8-K on October 18, 1996 
announcing the completion of a private placement of 
Senior Notes in the amount of $110,000,000.

				The Company filed a Form 8-K on November 1, 1996 
announcing it had signed a letter of intent for an 
asset sale of its wholly owned subsidiary, Farm Fresh 
Catfish Company, and that a $5,400,000 charge was being 
taken against fiscal 1996 earnings for the transaction.

				The Company filed a Form 8-K on December 20, 1996 
announcing the purchase of a 21.4 percent minority 
interest in Spanish company Campofrio Alimentacion, 
S.A. headquartered in Madrid, Spain.

				The Company filed a Form 8-K on January 10, 1997 
announcing the election of Eric A. Brown, Group Vice 
President Prepared Foods Group to the Company's Board 
of Directors.

              (c)   The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
                    separate section of this report.

              (d)   The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as
                    separate section of this report.





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to 
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

	HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

By /s/ Joel W. Johnson                   	January 24, 1997 
  Joel W. Johnson, Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer	Date

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf 
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:



	

							 	Chairman of the Board, 
								President, Chief Executive
/s/Joel W. Johnson		     1/24/97   Officer and Director
Joel W. Johnson			  Date	(Principal Executive Officer)



								Executive Vice President
								and Chief Financial 
Officer
								and Director
/s/ Don J. Hodapp			1/24/97   (Principal Financial and
Don J. Hodapp			       Date    Accounting Officer)



/s/ Gary J. Ray			1/24/97   Executive Vice President
Gary J. Ray			       Date    and Director


							     Group Vice President
/s/ Eric A. Brown              1/24/97  Prepared Foods Group
Eric A. Brown			       Date    and Director


/s/ James W. Cole             1/24/97	Group Vice President
James W. Cole	Date	Foodservice Group and Director



								Group Vice President
							 	International and
/s/ David N. Dickson		1/24/97 	Corporate Development
David N. Dickson		       Date    and Director



/s/ Stanley E. Kerber		1/24/97   Group Vice President
Stanley E. Kerber			  Date    Meat Products Group
								and Director













/s/ John W. Allen             1/24/97	Director
John W. Allen	Date



/s/ William S. Davila         1/24/97	Director
William S. Davila	Date



/s/ E. Peter Gillette Jr.      1/24/97	Director
E. Peter Gillette Jr.	Date



/s/ Luella G. Goldberg        1/24/97	Director
Luella G. Goldberg	Date



/s/ Geraldine M. Joseph       1/24/97	Director
Geraldine M. Joseph	Date



/s/ Earl B. Olson             1/24/97	Director
Earl B. Olson	Date



/s/ Ray V. Rose               1/24/97 	Director
Ray V. Rose	Date



/s/ Dr. Robert R. Waller      1/24/97	Director
Dr. Robert R. Waller	Date






	F-1




	ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

	ITEM 14 (a) (1), (2), AND (3) AND ITEM 14 (c) AND (d)

	LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

	FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

	LIST OF EXHIBITS

	YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 26, 1996

	HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

	Austin, Minnesota





	F-2




Item 14(a) (1), (2) and (3) and Item 14 (c) and (d)

LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
SCHEDULES

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION

October 26, 1996


The following consolidated financial statements of Hormel Foods 
Corporation included in the Annual Report of the Registrant to its 
stockholders for the year ended October 26, 1996, are incorporated 
herein by reference in Item 8 of Part II of this report:

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position--October 26, 1996 and
     October 28, 1995.

Consolidated Statements of Operations--Years Ended October 26, 1996,
     October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Investment--Years
     Ended October 26, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years Ended October 26, 1996, 
     October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.

Notes to Financial Statements--October 26, 1996.

Report of Independent Auditors

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Hormel 
Foods Corporation required pursuant to Item 14(d) is submitted 
herewith:

	Schedule II	Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves..F-3


All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable 
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are 
not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and 
therefore have been omitted.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES OMITTED

Condensed parent company financial statements of the registrant are 
omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of Article 5 of Regulation S-X.















	LIST OF EXHIBITS

	HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION





Number	Description of Document

**(3) A-1		Certification of Incorporation as amended to date.

**(3) B-1 	By-laws as amended to date.
			

	(4)	Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, 
	copies of instruments defining the rights of holders 
	of long-term debt are not filed.  The Company agrees 
	to furnish a copy thereof to the Securities and     
               Exchange Commission upon request.

	(9)	None.

	 (10)	None.

	 (11)	None.

	 (12)	None.

**(13)	Pages 17 through 32 of the Annual Report to 
	Stockholders for fiscal year ended October 26, 1996.

	 (18)	None.

	 (19)	None.

	 (22)	None.

**(23)	Consent of Independent Auditors.

	 (24)	None.

	 (25)	None.

**(27)		Financial Data Schedule

  (28)	None.




** These Exhibits transmitted via EDGAR.








CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
OF
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
(Secretary of State of Delaware of the November 18, 1960 Agreement of 
Merger between Geo This Certificate became effective December 30, 1960, 
upon filing in the office of the. A. Hormel & Company and Hormel 
Incorporated.)
FIRST:  The name of this corporation is HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION.  
(Amended 2-1-95)
SECOND:  Its principal office in the State of Delaware is located at 
100 West Tenth Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, 
Delaware.  The name and address of its resident agent is the Corporation 
Trust Company, 100 West Tenth Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
THIRD:  The nature of the business, or objects or purposes to be 
transacted, promoted or carried on are to do any or all of the things 
herein mentioned as fully and to the same extent as natural persons might 
or could do, and in any part of the world, viz:
(a)	To manufacture, buy and in any manner acquire and to prepare for 
market and import, export, sell and deal in, both at wholesale and 
retail and on its own account and on commission, all kinds of meats 
and meat products and all kinds of food and food products, and in 
connection therewith to carry on the business of slaughtering 
livestock and poultry and to deal in and with all kinds of products 
and by-products arising therefrom; to own and operate packing houses 
and canning establishments and to market, sell and deal in and with 
all articles produced or handled in connection therewith; to acquire 
by purchase or lease and to sell, mortgage, own, manage and operate 
such real estate and such personal property as may be necessary or 
convenient in the conduct of its business; to manufacture ice and to 
operate refrigeration plants, to own and operate refrigerator and 
other cars, either as owner or lessee, and generally to do all those 
things which are incidental to the aforesaid business.
(b)	To buy, or otherwise acquire, sell, lease, mortgage, own, manage, and 
operate farms and plantations; to deal in the products thereof; and to 
transact all business incidental or appurtenant thereto.
(c)	To manufacture, purchase, or otherwise acquire, to hold, own, 
mortgage, pledge, sell, assign, and transfer, or otherwise dispose of, 
to invest, trade in, deal in and deal with goods, wares, and 
merchandise and property of every class and description.
(d)	To acquire, by purchase or otherwise, to own, hold, buy, sell, convey, 
lease, mortgage or otherwise encumber real estate or other property, 
personal or mixed.
(e)	To acquire the good will, trademarks, rights and property, and to 
undertake the whole or any part of the business or liabilities of any 
person, firm, association or corporation; and to pay for the same in 
cash, the stock of this corporation, bonds, debentures, promissory 
notes, or otherwise; and to hold or in any manner to dispose of the 
whole or any part of the property so purchased; to conduct in any 
lawful manner the whole or any part of the business so acquired; and 
to exercise all the powers necessary or convenient in and about the 
conduct and management of such business.
(f)	To apply for, obtain, register, lease, purchase, or otherwise to 
acquire, and to hold, use, own, operate and introduce, and to sell, 
assign, or otherwise dispose of, any trademarks, trade names, patents, 
inventions, improvements and processes used in connection with or 
secured under Letter Patent of the United States, or elsewhere, or 
otherwise: and to use, exercise, develop, grant licenses in respect 
of, or otherwise turn to account, any such trademarks, patents, 
licenses, processes and the like or any such property or rights.
(g)	To enter into, perform and carry out contract of every kind with any 
person, firm, association or corporation, and to draw, make, accept, 
endorse, discount, execute and issue promissory notes, bills of 
exchange, warrants, bonds, debentures and other negotiable or trans-
ferable instruments for any of the objects or purposes of the 
corporation, and to secure the same by mortgage, pledge, deed of 
trust, or otherwise.
(h)	To hold, purchase or otherwise acquire, to sell, assign, transfer, 
mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of, shares of the capital stock 
and bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness created by 
any other corporation or corporations, and, while the holder thereof, 
to exercise all the rights and privileges of ownership, including the 
right to vote thereon.
(i)	To purchase, hold, sell and transfer shares of its own capital stock; 
provided that the corporation shall not use its funds or property for 
the purchase of its own shares of capital stock when such use would 
cause any impairment of its capital, and that shares of its own 
capital stock belonging to the corporation shall not be voted upon, 
directly or indirectly.
(j)	To negotiate policies of insurance, for its own benefit or for the 
benefit of others, upon the life or lives of any one or more of its 
officers or employees and to pay the premiums thereon; to cause or 
permit itself to be made the beneficiary of existing policies of 
insurance on the life or lives of any one or more of its officers or 
employees and thereafter to pay the premiums thereon; to cause other 
persons to be made the beneficiaries of existing policies of insurance 
on the life or lives of any one or more of its officers or employees 
and thereafter to pay the premiums thereon; and to pay the premiums on 
existing policies of insurance, on the life or lives of any one or 
more of its officers or employees, in which either this corporation or 
any other person or persons is or are named as beneficiary or 
beneficiaries.
(k)	To do any and all things set forth herein as objects, purposes, powers 
or otherwise, and to do all other things which corporations organized 
under the laws of the State of Delaware may do, to the same extent and 
as fully as natural persons might do, so far as may be permitted by 
law; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed 
to authorize this corporation to construct, hold, maintain or operate 
within the State of Delaware railroads, railways, telegraph or 
telephone lines, or to carry on within said State any public utility 
business.
(l)	In general, to carry on any other business in connection with the 
foregoing, and to have and to exercise all the powers conferred, now 
or hereafter, by the laws of Delaware upon this corporation.  The 
foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers; and 
it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing enumeration of 
specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner 
the powers of this corporation.
FOURTH:  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the 
Corporation shall have authority to issue is 280,000,000 shares, divided 
into three classes consisting of 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par 
value $.1172 per share ("Common Stock"), 40,000,000 shares of Nonvoting 
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Nonvoting Common Stock") and 
40,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Preferred 
Stock").
Section A.	Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is authorized at any time and from time to 
time, subject to any limitations prescribed by law, to provide for the 
issuance of the shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, and by 
filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of 
Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be in-
cluded in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences 
and rights of the shares of each such series and any qualifications, 
limitations or restrictions thereof.  The number of authorized shares of 
Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of 
shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of 
a majority of the Common Stock, without a vote of the holders of the 
Preferred Stock, or of any series thereof, unless a vote of any such 
holders is required pursuant to the certificate or certificates 
establishing the series of Preferred Stock.
Section B.	Common Stock.
1.	Voting rights.
Each holder of record of Common Stock shall he entitled to one 
(1) vote on all matters for each share of Common Stock owned of record by 
such holder.
2.	Dividends.
Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock and any 
other class or series of stock having a preference as to dividends over the 
Common Stock then outstanding, the holders of the Common Stock shall be 
entitled to receive, to the extent permitted by law, such dividends as may 
be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors, provided, however, 
that:
(a)	No cash dividend or other distribution of assets, rights, evidence of 
indebtedness or any other property shall be declared, paid or made to 
the holders of Common Stock unless a cash dividend or other such 
distribution in like kind and equal per-share amount is simultaneously 
declared, paid or made to the holders of the Nonvoting Common Stock; 
and that
(b)	Stock dividends declared on the Common Stock shall be payable solely 
in shares of Common Stock.  No stock dividend shall be declared or 
paid on the Common Stock unless a stock dividend payable in shares of 
Nonvoting Common Stock, proportionate on a per-share basis to the 
dividend on the Common Stock, is simultaneously declared and paid on 
the Nonvoting Common Stock.
3.	Liquidation.
	In the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, 
dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of the Corporation, after 
distribution in full of the preferential amounts, if any, to be distributed 
to the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock and any other class or 
series of stock having a preference as to liquidating distributions over 
the Common Stock, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to 
share ratably on a per-share basis with the holders of the Nonvoting Common 
Stock as a single class in all of the remaining assets of the Corporation 
of whatever kind available for distribution to stockholders.  A 
consolidation or merger of the Corporation with and into any other 
corporation or corporations shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, 
dissolution, or winding-up of the Corporation as those terms are used in 
this paragraph 3.
Section C.	Nonvoting Common Stock.
1.	Voting Rights.
Except as otherwise required by law or provided in this 
Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of shares of Nonvoting Common 
Stock shall have no vote on any matter.
2.	Dividends.
Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock and any 
other class or series of stock having a preference as to dividends over the 
Nonvoting Common Stock then outstanding, the holders of the Nonvoting 
Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, to the extent permitted by law, 
such dividends as may be declared from time to time by the Board of 
Directors, provided, however, that:
(a)	No cash dividend or other distribution of assets, rights, evidence of 
indebtedness or any other property shall be declared, paid or made to 
the holders of the Nonvoting Common Stock unless a cash dividend or 
other such distribution in like kind and equal per-share amount is 
simultaneously declared, paid or made to the holders of Common Stock; 
and that 

(b)	Stock dividends declared on the Nonvoting Common Stock shall be 
payable solely in shares of Nonvoting Common Stock.  No stock dividend 
shall be declared or paid on the Nonvoting Common Stock unless a stock 
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, proportionate on a per-
share basis to the dividend on the Nonvoting Common Stock, is 
simultaneously declared and paid on the Common Stock.

3.	Liquidation.
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, 
dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of the Corporation, after 
distribution in full of the preferential amounts, if any, to be distributed 
to the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock and any other class or 
series of stock having a preference as to liquidating distributions over 
the Nonvoting Common Stock, the holders of the Nonvoting Common Stock 
shall 
be entitled to share ratably on a per-share basis with the holders of the 
Common Stock as a single class in all of the remaining assets of the 
Corporation of whatever kind available for distribution to stockholders.  A 
consolidation or merger of the Corporation with and into any other 
corporation or corporations shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, 
dissolution, or winding-up of the Corporation as those terms are used in 
this paragraph 3.  (Amended January 10, 1949; December 22, 1959; November 
18, 1960; January 30, 1968; November 22, 1971; January 29, 1980; December 
5, 1983; September 3, 1985; February 17, 1987; June 1, 1987; January 31, 
1990; January 30, 1991)
FIFTH:  The corporation is to have perpetual existence.
SIXTH:  The private property of the stockholders of the corporation 
shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts of the corporation 
to any extent whatever.
SEVENTH:  Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between 
this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this 
corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of 
equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application 
in a summary way of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder 
thereof, or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for 
this corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the 
Delaware Code, or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any 
receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions 
of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code, order a meeting of the 
creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of 
stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in 
such manner as the said Court directs.  If a majority in number 
representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, 
and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as 
the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any 
reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or 
arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization 
shall. if sanctioned by the Court to which the said application has been 
made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all 
the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case 
may be, and also on this corporation.
EIGHTH:  In furtherance, and not in limitation of the powers conferred 
by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized:
(a)	To make, alter, amend and rescind the Bylaws of this corporation;
(b)	From time to time to determine whether and to what extent and at which 
times and places and under what conditions and regulations, the 
accounts and books of this corporation (other than the stock ledger) 
or any of them, shall be open to inspection of stockholders; and no 
stockholder shall have any right of inspecting any account, book, or 
document of this corporation except as conferred by statute, unless 
authorized by a resolution of stockholders or directors;
(c)	To fix the amount to be reserved as working capital; to authorize and 
cause to be executed mortgages and liens upon the real and personal 
property and franchises of this corporation;
(d)	By resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, 
to designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two 
or more of the directors of the corporation, which, to the extent 
provided in said resolution or resolutions, or in the Bylaws of the 
corporation shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of 
Directors in the management of the business and the affairs of the 
corporation, and may have power to authorize the seal of the 
corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.  Such 
committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be stated 
in the Bylaws of the corporation or as may be determined from time to 
time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
Both stockholders and directors shall have the power, if the Bylaws so 
provide, to hold their meetings either within or without the State of 
Delaware; the corporation shall also have the power, if the Bylaws so 
provide, to have one or more offices within or without the State of 
Delaware, in addition to the principal office in Delaware, and to keep the 
books of this corporation (subject to the provisions of the statute) 
outside of the State of Delaware at such places as may from time to time be 
designated by the Board of Directors.  (Amended January 29, 1980)
This corporation may in its Bylaws confer powers additional to the 
foregoing upon the directors and may also confer upon them powers in 
addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by the 
statute.
NINTH:  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article NINTH:
(i)	any merger or consolidation of the corporation with or into any 
other corporation;
(ii)	any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or 
substantially all of the assets of the corporation to or with any 
other corporation, person or other entity;
(iii)	the issuance or transfer of any securities of the 
corporation to any other corporation, person or other entity in 
exchange for assets or securities or a combination thereof 
(except assets or securities or a combination thereof so acquired 
in a single transaction or a series of related transactions 
having an aggregate fair market value of less than $5,000,000); 
or
(iv)	the issuance or transfer of any securities of the corporation to 
any other corporation, person or other entity for cash,
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of
(a)	at least 75% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the 
corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, 
(considered for the purposes of this Article as one class), and
(b)	at least a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the 
corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors 
which are not beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by such 
other corporation, person or other entity,
if, as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to 
notice thereof and to vote thereon, such other corporation, person or other 
entity is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 5% or more of 
the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote 
generally in the election of directors.  Such affirmative vote shall be 
required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that 
some lesser percentage may be specified by law or in any agreement with any 
national securities exchange.
The provisions of this Article NINTH shall not apply to any 
transaction described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the first 
paragraph of this Article, (i) with another corporation if a majority, by 
vote, of the outstanding shares of all classes of capital stock of such 
other corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, 
(considered for this purpose as one class), is owned of record or 
beneficially by the corporation and/or its subsidiaries; or (ii) with 
another corporation, person or other entity if the Board of Directors of 
the corporation shall by resolution have approved a memorandum of under-
standing with such other corporation, person or other entity with respect 
to and substantially consistent with such transaction prior to the time 
such other corporation, person or other entity became the beneficial owner, 
directly or indirectly, of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of capital 
stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of 
directors.
For the purposes of this Article NINTH, a corporation, person or other 
entity shall be deemed to be the beneficial owner of any shares of capital 
stock of the corporation (i) which it has the right to acquire pursuant to 
any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, 
or otherwise, or (ii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly 
(including shares deemed owned through application of clause (i) of this 
paragraph above), by any other corporation, person or other entity (a) with 
which it or its "affiliate" or "associate" (as referenced below) has any 
agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, 
holding, voting or disposing of capital stock of the corporation or (b) 
which is its "affiliate" or "associate" as those terms were defined in Rule 
12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 as in effect on December 1, 1979.  For the purposes of this 
Article NINTH, the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation 
shall include shares deemed owned through the application of clauses (i) 
and (ii) of this paragraph but shall not include any other shares which may 
be issuable pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion 
rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
The Board of Directors of the corporation shall have the power and 
duty to determine for the purposes of this Article NINTH, on the basis of 
information then known to it, whether (i) any corporation, person or other 
entity beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the out-
standing shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote 
generally in the election of directors, or is an "affiliate" or an 
"associate" (as referenced above) of another, (ii) any proposed sale, 
lease, exchange or other disposition of part of the assets of the 
corporation involves a substantial part of the assets of the corporation, 
(iii) assets or securities, or a combination thereof, to be acquired in 
exchange for securities of the corporation, have an aggregate fair market 
value of less than $5,000,000 and whether the same are proposed to be 
acquired in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, and 
(iv) the memorandum of understanding referred to above is substantially 
consistent with the transaction to which it relates.  Any such 
determination by the Board shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes 
of this Article NINTH.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Certificate of 
Incorporation or the Bylaws (and in addition to any other vote that may be 
required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws), there 
shall be required to amend, alter, change, or repeal, directly or 
indirectly, this Article NINTH the affirmative vote of (i) at least 75% of 
the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote 
generally in the election of directors and (ii) at least a majority of the 
outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote 
generally in the election of directors exclusive of all voting stock of the 
corporation beneficially owned, directly or indirectly by any corporation, 
person or entity which is, as of the record date for the determination of 
stockholders entitled to notice of such amendment, alteration, change or 
repeal, and to vote thereon, the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, 
of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation 
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
(Added by amendment January 29, 1980)
TENTH:  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of 
Incorporation or the Bylaws, the corporation reserves the right to amend, 
alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Agreement of Merger 
which constitutes the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. of the 
corporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all 
rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this 
reservation.
(Renumbered by amendment January 29, 1980)
ELEVENTH:  A director of the Corporation shall not be personally 
liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages or 
breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any 
breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its 
stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve 
intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 
174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (iv) for any transaction 
from which the director derived any improper personal benefit.  If the 
Delaware General Corporation law is amended after approval by the 
stockholders of this provision to authorize corporate action further elimi-
nating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability 
of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the 
fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation law, as so 
amended.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing paragraph by the 
stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or 
protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such 
repeal or modification.
(Added February 17, 1987)


BYLAWS

OF

HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION


NAME

1.	The name of the corporation is HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION.  
(Amended 
October 26, 1992; Amended December 7, 1995 to conform with Amendment 
to Articles of Incorporation Effective February 1, 1995)

OFFICES

2.	The principal office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall 
be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of 
the resident agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust 
Company, whose address is 100 West Tenth Street, Wilmington, Delaware.  
(Amended April 17, 1930; September 20, 1930; June 13, 1949)

	In addition to its principal office in the State of Delaware, the 
corporation may establish and maintain an office or offices at Austin, 
Minnesota, and at such other places as the Board of Directors may from 
time to time appoint or the business of the corporation may require.

CORPORATE SEAL

3.	The corporate seal of the corporation shall be circular in form and 
shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation, the year of 
its creation (1928) and the words "Seal", "Incorporated", and 
"Delaware".

STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS

4.	All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the office of the 
corporation at Austin, Minnesota, or at such other place as the Board 
of Directors may previously determine.

5.	A.	An annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation 
shall be held on the last Tuesday of January in each year, at 
eight o'clock p.m. or at such other time as the Board of 
Directors may designate, when the stockholders shall elect by 
plurality vote, by ballot, a Board of Directors, and transact 
such other business as may properly be brought before the 
meeting.  (Amended November 15, 1938; June 14, 1954; April 18, 
1966; October 28, 1968; April 28, 1969; December 20, 1984)

B.	To be properly brought before the annual meeting of stockholders, 
business must be (1) specified in the notice of the meeting, (2) 
directed to be brought before the meeting by the Board of 
Directors or (3) proposed at the meeting by a stockholder who (i) 
was a stockholder of record at the time of giving the notice 
provided for in these Bylaws, (ii) is entitled to vote at the 
meeting, and (iii) gives prior notice of the matter, which must 
otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action, in the 
manner herein provided.  For business to be properly brought 
before the annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must 
give written notice to the Secretary of the corporation so as to 
be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation 
at least ninety (90) days before the date that is one year after 
the prior year's annual meeting.  Such notice shall set forth (1) 
the name and record address of the stockholder, (2) the class and 
number of shares of the corporation owned by the stockholder, (3) 
a brief description of the business desired to be brought before 
the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business, 
and (4) any material interest in such business of the 
stockholder.  The chairman of the meeting may refuse to 
acknowledge any proposed business not made in compliance with the 
foregoing procedure.  (Added 7-22-96)

C.	Nominations of persons for election as Directors may be made at 
the annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of 
the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder who (1) was a 
stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice 
provided for in these Bylaws, (2) is entitled to vote at the 
meeting and (3) gives prior notice of the nomination in the 
manner herein provided.  For a nomination to be properly made by 
a stockholder, the stockholder must give written notice to the 
Secretary of the corporation so as to be received at the 
principal executive offices of the corporation at least ninety 
(90) days before the date that is one year after the prior year's 
regular meeting.  Such notice shall set forth (a) as to the 
stockholder giving the notice:  (i) the name and record address 
of the stockholder, and (ii) the class and number of shares of 
the corporation owned by the stockholder; and (b) as to each 
person the stockholder proposes to nominate:  (i) the name, 
business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the 
principal occupation or employment of the person and (iii) the 
class and number of shares of the corporation's capital stock 
beneficially owned by the person.  The chairman of the meeting 
may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made 
in compliance with the foregoing procedure.  (Added 7-22-96)

6.	The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding, present 
in person, or represented by proxy, shall be requisite and shall 
constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the 
transaction of business except as otherwise provided by law, by the 
certificate of incorporation, or by these Bylaws.  If, however, such 
majority shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the 
stockholders, the stockholders present in person or by proxy shall 
have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without 
notice other than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite 
amount of stock shall be present.  At such adjourned meeting at which 
the requisite amount of stock shall be represented, any business may 
be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as orig-
inally notified.

7.	At each meeting of the stockholders every stockholder shall be 
entitled to vote in person, or by proxy appointed by an instrument in 
writing subscribed by such stockholder and bearing a date not more 
than three years prior to said meeting, unless said instrument 
provides for a longer period.  Each stockholder shall have one vote 
for each share of stock registered in his name on the books of the 
corporation.  The vote for Directors, and, upon demand of any 
stockholder, the vote upon any question before the meeting, shall be 
by ballot.  All elections shall be held and all questions decided by a 
plurality vote. (Amended March 23, 1970)

8.	Written notice of the annual meeting shall be mailed to each 
stockholder at such address as appears on the stock book of the 
corporation at least ten days prior to the meeting. (Amended October 
28, 1975)

9.	A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing 
election, arranged in alphabetical order, with the residence of each, 
and the number of shares held by each, shall be prepared by the 
Secretary and filed at the place where the election is to be held, at 
least ten days before every election, and shall at all times, during 
the usual hours for business, and during the whole time of said 
election, be open to the examination of any stockholder.  (Amended 
February 19, 1968)

10.	Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose, or purposes, 
unless otherwise prescribed by the statute, may be called by the 
Chairman of the Board, or Secretary at the request, in writing, of 
stockholders owning a majority in amount of the entire capital stock 
of the corporation issued and outstanding.  Such request shall state 
the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting.  (Amended January 31, 
1984; Amended September 27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993; Amended 
December 7, 1995)

11.	Business transacted at all special meetings shall be confined to the 
objects stated in the call.

12.	Written notice of a special meeting of stockholders, stating the time 
and place and object thereof, shall be mailed, postage prepaid, at 
least ten days before such meeting, to each stockholder at such 
address as appears on the books of the corporation.  (Amended October 
28, 1975)

DIRECTORS

13.	The property and business of the corporation shall be managed by its 
Board of Directors.  The number of Directors shall be established from 
time to time by resolution of the stockholders or the Board of 
Directors.  The Directors of the corporation shall be elected annually 
at the annual meeting of stockholders and each Director shall be 
elected to serve until his successor shall be elected and shall 
qualify.  (Amended November 16, 1964; June 21, 1965; November 25, 
1968; August 25, 1969; December 22, 1969; February 24, 1970; December 
19, 1972; July 22, 1974; September 23, 1974; December 22, 1975; 
November 29; 1976; December 27, 1978; July 23, 1979; January 29, 1980)

14.	In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly 
conferred upon them, the Board may exercise all such powers of the 
corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by 
statute or by Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed 
or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.

DIRECTORS' MEETINGS

15.	(Amended September 27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993; Deleted 
December 7, 1995)

15.	Regular meetings of the Board, after the organizational meeting, shall 
be held without notice at the Corporate Office of the corporation at 
Austin, Minnesota, on the fourth Monday of January, March, May, July, 
September, October and November at 1:00 p.m. or such other time as the 
Board shall designate, or, without notice, at such other time or 
place, within or without the State of Minnesota, as the Board of 
Directors may from time to time designate.  (Amended July 16, 1935; 
June 14, 1954; May 20, 1957; April 17, 1967; February 19, 1968; March 
25, 1980; January 28, 1985)

16.	Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairman of the 
Board on one day's notice to each Director, either personally or by 
mail or by telegram or telephone; special meetings shall be called by 
the Chairman of the Board, or Secretary in like manner or on like 
notice on the written request of two Directors.  (Amended January 31, 
1984; Amended September 27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993; Amended 
December 7, 1995)

17.	At all meetings of the Board, a majority of the number of Directors 
authorized by the Bylaws shall be necessary and sufficient to 
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a 
majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is a 
quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be 
otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the Certificate of 
Incorporation or by these Bylaws.  (Amended January 18, 1965)

COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

18.	Directors, as such, shall not receive any stated salary for their 
services, but, by resolution of the Board, a fixed sum and expenses of 
attendance, if any, may be allowed for attendance at each regular or 
special meeting of the Board; PROVIDED, That nothing herein contained 
shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the 
corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.

19.	Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like 
compensation for attending committee meetings.

COMMITTEES

20.	The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions, passed by a 
majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each 
committee to consist of two or more of the Directors of the 
corporation, which, to the extent provided in said resolution or 
resolutions or in these Bylaws, shall have and may exercise the powers 
of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and 
affairs of the corporation and may have power to authorize the seal of 
the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.  
Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be 
stated in these Bylaws or as may be determined from time to time by 
resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.

21.	The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and 
report the same to the Board at each regular meeting.

VACANCIES

22.	In case of any vacancy in the Board of Directors by reason of death, 
resignation, or otherwise, the remaining Directors, by majority vote, 
may elect a successor to hold office until a successor has been 
elected by the stockholders.  (Amended April 18, 1955; November 25, 
1974; October 26, 1992 [Bylaw 33 renumbered to Bylaw 23, and following 
sections renumbered])

OFFICERS

23.	The officers of the corporation shall be elected by the Board of 
Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or 
more Vice Presidents of whatever special designation the Board may 
determine, a Secretary and a Treasurer.  The Board may also elect 
Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant 
Treasurers, and a Controller and Assistant Controllers.  The Chairman 
of the Board and the President must be Directors, but other officers 
need not be Directors.  The designation and duties of any Vice 
President may be changed by the Board at any time.  (Amended November 
19, 1929; July 8, 1946; April 18, 1955; April 21, 1958; July 19, 1965; 
January 15, 1968; February 19, 1968; August 25, 1969; August 24, 1981; 
April 25, 1983; January 31, 1984; Amended September 27, 1993, 
Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

24.	The Board of Directors, at its first meeting after each Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders, shall elect a Chairman of the Board, a President, one 
or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and may elect a 
Controller, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assis-
tant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers.  Such action may be taken 
by unanimous written consent in lieu of a meeting.  (Amended May 11, 
1942; July 8, 1946; April 18, 1955; July 19, 1965; January 15, 1968; 
February 19, 1968; August 25, 1969; August 24, 1981; April 25, 1983; 
January 31, 1984; October 26, 1992; Amended September 27, 1993, 
Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

25.	The Board may appoint such other officers and agents as it shall deem 
necessary, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall 
exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined 
from time to time by the Board.

26.	The Board of Directors shall have the right to fix the salaries of all 
officers of the corporation.

27.	The officers of the corporation shall hold office until their 
successors are elected and qualify in their stead.  Any officers 
elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the 
affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors.  If 
the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy 
shall be filled by the affirmative vote of the majority of the whole 
Board of Directors.  In its discretion, the Board may leave unfilled 
any office except that of President, Treasurer or Secretary.  (Amended 
April 18, 1955)

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
28.	A.	The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of 
stockholders and Directors.
B.	The Chairman of the Board shall be an ex-officio member of all 
standing committees of the Board except those committees which 
the Board determines will comprise only nonemployee Directors, 
specifically including the Audit Committee and the Compensation 
Committee.
C.	The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of 
the corporation and shall have general and active management of 
the business of the corporation.  (Bylaw 28 added December 7, 
1995)

THE PRESIDENT
29.	A.	In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President shall 
preside at meetings of the stockholders and Directors.  In the 
event of a vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the Board, 
the President shall exercise the powers of the Chairman of the 
Board until the vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the 
Board has been filed.
B.	The President shall be an ex-officio member of all standing 
committees of the Board except those committees which the Board 
determines will comprise only nonemployee Directors, specifically 
including the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.
C.	The President shall have powers and duties appropriate to the 
office of President, taking into account Bylaw 28.C.  (Bylaw 29 
added December 7, 1995)
30.	(Amended April 18, 1955; April 16, 1962; July 19, 1965; February 19, 
1968; August 25, 1969; August 24, 1981; January 31, 1984; May 19, 
1986; deleted September 27, 1993 to be effective October 1, 1993)

VICE PRESIDENTS

30.	A.	In the absence or disability of the President, the duties and 
powers of the President will be exercised by the Executive Vice 
Presidents, if any, in the order of their seniority with the 
Company; if there is no Executive Vice President, then by such of 
the Group Vice Presidents as are members of the Board in the order 
of their seniority on the Board, and if any two Group Vice 
presidents have the same seniority on the Board, then in the order 
of their seniority with the corporation until the Board of Direc-
tors shall designate one of their number to perform such duties.  
(Amended July 8, 1946; April 18, 1955; April 21, 1958; July 19, 
1965; January 15, 1968; February 19, 1968; August 27, 1979; August 
24, 1981; April 25, 1983)

	B.	In the absence or disability of the President, or the Executive 
Vice Presidents and all of the Group Vice Presidents, the Vice 
Presidents who are members of the Board of Directors in the order 
of their seniority on the Board shall perform the duties and 
exercise the powers of the President until the Board of Directors 
shall designate one of their number to perform such duties.  
(Amended July 8, 1946; April 21, 1958; July 19, 1965; January 15, 
1968; February 19, 1968; August 25, 1969; August 24, 1981; April 
25, 1983)

THE SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES

31.	A.	The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board and all 
meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes 
of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose; and 
shall perform like duties for the standing committees when 
required.  He shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all 
meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and 
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board 
of Directors or Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, under 
whose supervision he shall be.  He shall keep in safe custody the 
seal of the corporation, and when authorized by the Board, affix 
it to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed it shall be 
attested by his signature or by the signature of the Treasurer. 
(Amended October 26, 1992; Amended September 27, 1993, Effective 
October 1, 1993)

	B.	The Assistant Secretaries in the order of their seniority shall, 
in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties 
and exercise the powers of the Secretary, and shall perform such 
other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.

THE TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS

32.	The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and 
securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and 
disbursements in books belonging to the corporation, and shall deposit 
all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of 
the corporation, in such depositories as may be designated by the 
Board of Directors.

	A.	He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered 
by the Board, taking the proper vouchers for such disbursement, 
and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation 
and Directors, at the regular meetings of the Board, or whenever 
they may require it, an account of all his transactions as 
Treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation.  
(Amended September 27, 1993, Effective October 1, 1993)

	B.	He shall give the corporation a bond if required by the Board of 
Directors in a sum, and with one or more sureties satisfactory to 
the Board, for the faithful performance of the duties of his 
office, and for the restoration of the corporation in case of his 
death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all 
books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind 
in his possession or under his control belonging to the corpora-
tion.

	C.	The Assistant Treasurers in the order of their seniority shall, in 
the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and 
exercise the powers of the Treasurer, and shall perform such other 
duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.

DUTIES OF OFFICERS MAY BE DELEGATED

33.	In case of the absence of an officer of the corporation, or for any 
other reason that the Board may deem sufficient, the Board may 
delegate, for the time being, the powers or duties, or any of them of 
such officer to any other officer, or to any Director, PROVIDED, a 
majority of the entire Board concur therein.

CERTIFICATES OF STOCK

34.	Stock certificates of the corporation shall be numbered consecutively 
and shall be entered on the books of the corporation as they are 
issued.  They shall exhibit the holders' names and the number of 
shares and shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board or the 
President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant 
Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.  Until such 
other transfer agent is appointed, the Secretary shall sign as 
transfer agent.  Each certificate shall bear the corporate seal or a 
facsimile thereof.  Each certificate shall recite the kind or class of 
stock it represents.  (Amended September 8, 1947; April 18, 1955; 
November 24, 1959; October 26, 1992; Amended September 27, 1993, 
Effective October 1, 1993; Amended December 7, 1995)

	Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent other 
than the corporation or its employee, or (ii) a registrar other than 
the Corporation or its employee, either of which countersignatures may 
be a facsimile, any other signature on the certificate may be a 
facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has 
signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate 
shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar 
before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation 
with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or 
registrar at the date of issue.  (Added by amendment January 12, 1942; 
September 8, 1947; April 18, 1955; November 24, 1959; October 27, 
1969; October 26, 1992; November 23, 1992)

TRANSFER OF STOCK

35.	All transfer of stock of the corporation shall be made on the books of 
the corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by an 
attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and upon the surrender of 
certificates for the stock so transferred.  Unless other transfer 
agents be designated by the Board of Directors, the Secretary shall be 
the sole transfer agent.

CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS

36.	The Board of Directors shall have power to close the stock transfer 
books of the corporation for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days 
preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date for 
payment of any dividend or the date for the allotment of rights or the 
date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall 
go into effect; PROVIDED, however, that in lieu of closing the stock 
transfer books as aforesaid, the Board of Directors may fix in advance 
a date, not exceeding sixty (60) days preceding the date of any 
meeting of stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend, 
or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change 
or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect as a 
record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to 
notice of, and to vote at any such meeting, or entitled to receive 
payment of any such dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or 
to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or 
exchange of capital stock, and in such case only such stockholders as 
shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled 
to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive payment 
of such dividend, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to 
exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer 
of any stock on the books of the corporation after any such record 
date fixed as aforesaid.  (Amended November 21, 1966; March 23, 1970)

REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS

37.	The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any 
share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and accordingly 
shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or 
interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not 
it shall have express or other notice thereof, save expressly provided 
by the laws of Delaware.

LOST CERTIFICATE

38.	Any person claiming a certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed 
shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that fact and advertise the 
same in such manner as the Board of Directors may require, and the 
Board of Directors may, in their discretion, before issuing a new 
certificate, require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, 
or his legal representative, to give the corporation a bond, in such 
sum as they may direct, not exceeding double the value of the stock, 
to indemnify the corporation against any claim that may be made 
against it on account of alleged loss of any such certificate; a new 
certificate of the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the 
one alleged to be lost or destroyed may be issued without requiring 
any bond when, in the judgment of the Directors, it is proper so to 
do.

CHECKS AND NOTES

39.	Checks, drafts, orders for the payment of money and promissory notes 
shall be signed or endorsed in the name of the corporation by such 
person or persons as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall from 
time to time appoint.  

FISCAL YEAR

40.	The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on the last Saturday of 
October in each year.

DIVIDENDS

41.	Dividends upon the capital stockf the corporation, subject to the 
provisions of the certificate of incorporation, may be declared by the 
Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law.  
Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the 
capital stock.

	Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any 
funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as 
the Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think 
proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing 
dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the 
corporation, or for such other purposes as the Directors shall think 
conducive to the interests of the corporation.

INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES

42.	The corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable laws 
of the State of Delaware in effect from time to time shall indemnify 
each officer against the expenses of any action to which such officer 
is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact 
that he is or was an officer of the corporation; and the corporation 
may purchase and maintain insurance for the purpose of indemnification 
to the fullest extent permitted by said laws.

	As used in this Bylaw: (i) the term officer means any person who is, 
was or may hereafter be a director, officer, employee or agent of this 
corporation or, at the request of this corporation, of any other 
corporation or of any partnership, joint venture, trust or other 
enterprise and the rights of indemnification under this Bylaw shall 
inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any 
such persons, (ii) the term action means any threatened, pending, or 
completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, 
administrative or investigative including those by or in the right of 
the corporation and whether or not involving an act or omission of an 
officer in his capacity as such and whether or not he is an officer at 
the time of such action, and (iii) the term expenses of any action 
shall include attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, amounts paid in 
settlement and any other expenses incurred in connection with an 
action but in the case of actions by or in the right of the 
corporation the term shall not include judgments or other amounts paid 
to the corporation.  The foregoing terms shall be construed and shall 
be deemed to be amended from time to time as necessary so as to permit 
indemnification to the fullest extent permitted under the applicable 
laws of the State of Delaware then in effect.  (Bylaw 42 added 
November 20, 1967; amended May 27, 1980)

WAIVER OF NOTICES

43.	Any stockholder, director or officer may waive any notice required to 
be given under these Bylaws.

AMENDMENTS

44.	These Bylaws may be altered or amended by the Board of Directors at 
any meeting by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board 
of Directors.  The Bylaws may also be altered or amended at any 
meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of 
the stock issued and outstanding.







EXHIBIT 23





CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference to this Annual 
Report (Form 10K) of Hormel Foods Corporation of our report 
dated November 26, 1996, included in the 1996 Annual Report 
to Stockholders of Hormel Foods Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of 
Hormel Foods Corporation listed in Item 14(a).  This 
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.  
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our 
audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement schedule 
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic 
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in 
all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in 
Registration Statement Number 333-17327 on Form S-3 dated 
December 4, 1996, in Post-Effective Amendment Number 2 to 
Registration Statement Number 33-14614 on Form S-8 dated 
December 6, 1988, in Registration Statement Number 33-14615 
on Form S-8 dated May 27, 1987, in Post-Effective Amendment 
Number 1 to Registration Number 33-29053 dated January 26, 
1990, in Registration Statement Number 33-43246 on Form S-8 
dated October 10, 1991, and in Registration Statement Number 
33-45408 on Form S-8 dated January 31, 1992 of our report 
dated November 26, 1996, with respect to the consolidated 
financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and 
our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect 
to the financial statement schedule included in this annual 
Report (Form 10-K) of Hormel Foods Corporation.



							/s/ERNST & YOUNG LLP




Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 24, 1997





1996 Financial Section 
18 Selected Financial Data 
20 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
22 Consolidated Statements of Operations 
23 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' 
Investment 
24 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
25 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
29 Report of Independent Auditors 
30 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results 
of Operations 
31 Responsibilities for Financial Statements 
32 Corporate Information 
Selected Financial Data 
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)        1996    1995    
1993    *1992   1991    1990    1989    1988    *1987   1986 
Operations 
Net Sales       $3,098,685      $3,046,195      $3,064,793      
$2,853,997  
    $2,813,651      $2,836,222      $2,681,180      
$2,340,513      
$2,292,847      $2,314,082      $1,960,237 
Net Earnings Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes     
79,408  
120,436 117,975 100,770 95,174  86,393  77,124  70,114  
60,192  45,944  
39,079 
        Percent of Sales        2.56%   3.95%   3.85%   
3.53%   3.38%   
3.05%   2.88%   3.00%   2.63%   1.99%   1.99% 
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes                         
(127,529)**      
Net Earnings (Loss)     79,408  120,436 117,975 (26,759)        
95,174  
86,393  77,124  70,114  60,192  45,944  39,079 
Wage Costs      398,824 373,901 351,096 325,115 304,696 
278,537 267,391 
254,449 253,937 255,429 222,535 
Total Taxes (Excluding Payroll Tax)     56,992  84,329  
82,915  70,026  
64,968  60,035  51,990  48,983  44,541  41,797  38,297 
Depreciation and Amortization   42,700  37,220  36,611  
32,174  38,972  
36,269  35,554  36,863  35,517  33,535  30,741 
Financial Position 
Working Capital $ 456,850       $ 441,452       $ 443,298       
$ 392,846   
    $ 401,216       $ 346,164       $ 293,818       $ 
232,941       $ 
156,476       $ 147,969       $ 196,199 
Properties (Net)        421,486 333,084 270,886 244,987 
216,390 231,817 
235,026 244,362 263,056 263,917 255,159 
Total Assets    1,436,138       1,223,860       1,196,718       
1,093,559   
    913,015 856,835 799,422 727,429 706,548 697,970 584,744 
Long-Term Debt 
        Less Current Maturities 127,003 16,959  10,300  
5,700   7,624   
22,833  24,535  19,228  20,399  48,831  63,264 
Shareholders' Investment        785,551 732,047 661,089 
570,888 644,284 
583,408 513,832 470,929 418,716 373,120 339,925 
Per Share of Common Stock 
Net Earnings Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes     
$ 1.04  $ 
1.57  $ 1.54  $ 1.31  $ 1.24  $ 1.13  $ 1.01  $ 0.91  $ 0.79  
$ 0.60  $ 
0.51 
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes                         
(1.66) 
Net Earnings (Loss)     1.04    1.57    1.54    (0.35)  1.24    
1.13    
1.01    0.91    0.79    0.60    0.51 
Dividends       0.60    0.58    0.50    0.44    0.36    0.30    
0.26    
0.22    0.18    0.15    0.14 
Shareholders' Investment        10.13   9.54    8.62    7.45    
8.41    
7.61    6.70    6.14    5.46    4.86    4.42 
*53 Weeks 
**Adoption of SFAS No. 106 and SFAS No. 109 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
(In Thousands)          October 26, 1996        October 28, 
Assets 
Current Assets 
Cash and cash equivalents               $ 188,473       $ 
189,539 
Short-term marketable securities                14,642  
8,489 
Accounts receivable             230,869 231,407 
Inventories             271,097 210,898 
Deferred income taxes           11,615  13,255 
Prepaid expenses                6,563   5,679 
                Total current assets            723,259 
659,267 
Deferred Income Taxes           68,686  66,204 
Intangibles             124,193 81,650 
Investments and Other Assets            98,514  83,655 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Land                            8,517   8,009 
Buildings                       210,450 166,888 
Equipment               538,562 495,641 
Construction in progress                71,085  51,388 
                                        828,614 721,926 
Less allowance for depreciation         (407,128)       
(388,842) 
                                        421,486 333,084 
                                $1,436,138      $1,223,860 
(In Thousands)          October 26, 1996        October 28, 
Liabilities and Shareholders' Investment 
Current Liabilities 
Accounts payable                $ 121,004       $ 97,479 
Accrued expenses                42,190  26,246 
Accrued marketing expenses              22,768  20,638 
Employee compensation           41,493  44,700 
Taxes, other than federal income taxes          14,991  
15,380 
Dividends payable               11,611  11,123 
Federal income taxes            9,804   118 
Current maturities of long-term debt            2,548   
2,131 
                Total current liabilities               
266,409 217,815 
Long-Term Debt   less current maturities                
127,003 16,959 
Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation           
239,616 235,659 
Accrued Pension Costs                   7,240 
Other Long-Term Liabilities             17,559  14,140 
Shareholders' Investment 
Preferred Stock, par value $.01 a share   authorized 
40,000,000 shares; 
issued   none 
Common Stock, nonvoting, par value $.01 a share   authorized 
40,000,000 
shares;         issued   none 
Common Stock, par value $.1172 a share   authorized 
200,000,000 shares;  
        issued 77,534,398 shares Oct. 26, 1996  issued 
76,852,128 shares 
Oct. 28, 1995          9,087   9,007 
Additional paid-in capital              32,214  16,624 
Shares held in treasury         (535)   (3,922) 
                                        40,766  21,709 
Earnings reinvested in business         744,785 710,338 
                                        785,551 732,047 
                                $1,436,138      $1,223,860 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
                                Fiscal Year Ended 
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)        October 26, 
October 28, 1995        October 29, 1994 
Sales, less returns and allowances      $3,098,685      
$3,046,195      
$3,064,793 
Cost of products sold   2,398,272       2,294,254       
2,345,492 
                Gross profit    700,413 751,941 719,301 
Expenses: 
        Selling and delivery    503,108 502,729 467,062 
        Administrative and general      75,659  65,766  
65,184 
        Restructuring charges   8,659            
                Operating income        112,987 183,446 
187,055 
Other income and expenses: 
        Interest and investment income  14,106  12,762  
6,538 
        Interest expense        (1,619) (1,529) (2,523) 
Earnings before income taxes    125,474 194,679 191,070 
Provision for income taxes      46,066  74,243  73,095 
                Net earnings    $ 79,408        $ 120,436       
$ 117,975 
                Net earnings per share  $ 1.04  $ 1.57 $1.54 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' 
investment 
                                                        
Additional      
Earnings        Total                                                   
Paid-In Reinvested      Shareholders' 
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)        Shares  
Amount  Shares  
Amount  Capital in Business     Investment 
Balance at October 30, 1993     76,852  $9,007  (180)   
$(4,103)        
$14,513 $551,471        $570,888 
Purchases of Common Stock                       (90)    
(1,851)             
    (1,851) 
Exercise of stock options                       108     
2,322           
(2,937) (615) 
Tax benefit of stock options                                    
1,183       
    1,183 
Adjustment in minimum pension liability                                     
    11,840  11,840 
Net earnings                                            
117,975 117,975 
Cash dividends   $.50 per share                                         
(38,331)        (38,331) 
Balance at October 29, 1994     76,852  9,007   (162)   
(3,632) 15,696  
640,018 661,089 
Purchases of Common Stock                       (60)    
(1,480)             
    (1,480) 
Exercise of stock options                       72      
1,190           
(1,720) (530) 
Tax benefit of stock options                                    
    928 
Adjustment in minimum pension liability                                     
    (3,912) (3,912) 
Net earnings                                            
120,436 120,436 
Cash dividends   $.58 per share                                         
(44,484)        (44,484) 
Balance at October 28, 1995     76,852  9,007   (150)   
(3,922) 16,624  
710,338 732,047 
Purchases of Common Stock                       (1,015) 
(24,334)            
            (24,334) 
Exercise of stock options                       114     
3,013           
(1,114) 1,899 
Shares retired  (1,027) (120)   1,027   24,708  (24,588)                
Issuance of stock for Stagg Foods, Inc. 1,709   200                     
39,800          40,000 
Tax benefit of stock options                                    
    378 
Adjustment in minimum pension liability                                     
    2,254   2,254 
Net earnings                                            
79,408  79,408 
Cash dividends   $.60 per share                                         
(46,101)        (46,101) 
Balance at October 26, 1996     77,534  $9,087  (24)    $ 
(535) $32,214 
$744,785        $785,551 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
                                Fiscal Year Ended 
(In Thousands)  October 26, 1996        October 28, 1995        
October 29, 1994 
Operating Activities 
Net earnings    $ 79,408        $ 120,436       $117,975 
Adjustments to reconcile to net cash provided by operating 
activities:  
Depreciation    38,280  33,367  33,655 
        Amortization of intangibles     4,419   3,853   
2,956 
        Provision for deferred income taxes     (2,347) 
5,164   (5,859) 
        (Gain) loss on investments      (4,627)         
4,368 
        (Gain) loss on property/equipment sales and idle 
facility       
(3,767) (239)   4,312 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
        Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable      
2,773   (3,038) (9,882) 
        (Increase) decrease in inventories and prepaid 
expenses (56,771)    
    (10,903)        10,930 
        Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued 
expenses    
52,040  (57,266)        40,686 
                Net cash provided by operating activities       
109,408 
91,374  199,141 
Investing Activities 
Sale of available-for-sale securities   13,116  2,871   
3,309 
Purchase of held-to-maturity securities (14,642)                
(357) 
Acquisitions of businesses      (12,845)        (6,201) 
(9,750) 
Purchases of property/equipment (122,942)       (97,181)        
(65,441) 
Proceeds from sales of property/equipment       5,410   
1,855   1,575 
(Increase) in investments and other assets      (18,418)        
(16,141)    
    (3,973) 
                Net cash used in investing activities   
(150,321)       
(114,797)       (74,637) 
Financing Activities 
Proceeds from long-term borrowings      110,553 10,000  
5,000 
Principal payments on long-term debt    (3,393) (1,610)  
Dividends paid on Common Stock  (45,613)        (42,946)        
(37,178) 
Share repurchase        (23,966) 
Other           2,266   (1,081) (1,285) 
                Net cash provided by (used in) financing 
activities     
39,847  (35,637)        (33,463) 
                (Decrease) increase in cash and cash 
equivalents        
(1,066) (59,060)        91,041 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  189,539 
248,599 157,558 
                Cash and cash equivalents at end of year        
$ 188,473   
    $ 189,539       $248,599 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTs October 26, 1996 
A Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of 
Consolidation: 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts 
of Hormel Foods 
Corporation and all of its majority-owned subsidiaries after 
elimination of 
all significant intercompany accounts, transactions and 
profits.  
Business Overview: Hormel is engaged in a single business 
segment 
designated as "meat and food processing." As a federally 
inspected food 
processor, Hormel is engaged in the processing of meat and 
poultry 
products, production of prepared foods and the marketing of 
those products 
to food wholesalers, retailers and foodservice distributors 
in the United 
States. The principal raw materials for the company's 
products are pork and 
turkey. The company's earnings are influenced by the 
cyclical nature of 
these raw material costs.  
Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles requires 
management to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported 
in the financial 
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could 
differ from those 
estimates. 
Inventories: Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or 
market. 
Livestock and the materials portion of products are valued 
on the first-in, 
first-out method with the exception of the materials portion 
of turkey 
products which are valued on the last-in, first-out method. 
Substantially 
all inventoriable expenses, packages and supplies are valued 
by the 
last-in, first-out method. 
Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment 
are carried at 
cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided 
over the 
estimated useful lives of the related assets, primarily on a 
straight-line 
basis. The carrying value of property, plant and equipment 
is assessed 
annually and/or when factors indicating an impairment are 
present. The 
company determines such impairment by measuring undiscounted 
future cash 
flows. If an impairment is present, the assets are reported 
at the lower of 
carrying value or fair value. 
Beginning in 1996, the company capitalized certain software 
development and 
implementation costs. Prior to 1996, such costs were not 
significant. 
Development and implementation costs are expensed until the 
company has 
determined that the software will result in probable future 
economic 
benefits and management has committed to funding the 
project. Thereafter, 
all direct external implementation costs and purchased 
software costs are 
capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method 
over the remaining 
estimated useful lives, not exceeding five years. 
Amortization of Intangibles: Goodwill and other intangibles 
are being 
amortized over periods up to 40 years. The carrying value of 
intangible 
assets is assessed annually and/or when factors indicating 
impairment are 
present. The company employs an undiscounted cash flow 
method of assessment 
for these assets. Accumulated amortization at October 26, 
1996, and October 
28, 1995, was $20,238,000 and $15,819,000, respectively. 
 Acquisitions: The company acquired Stagg Foods, Inc., a 
manufacturer of 
chili products, in October of 1996, for $40,000,000 of the 
company's stock. 
Additionally, the company paid $10,000,000 in cash to the 
former owners 
under a five-year noncompete agreement. The acquisition 
resulted in the 
recording of $34,052,000 of goodwill which is being 
amortized over 30 
years.  
The company also acquired several other businesses during 
each of the three 
fiscal years ended October 26, 1996, which are included in 
the company's 
results of operations since the respective acquisition 
dates. The results 
of these acquired businesses, either individually or in the 
aggregate, were 
not significant to the company's results of operations.  
Advertising Expenses: Advertising costs are expensed when 
incurred. 
Advertising expenses include all media advertising but 
exclude the costs 
associated with coupons, samples and market research. 
Advertising costs for 
fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $177,202,000, 
$176,207,000 and 
$157,495,000, respectively. 
Accounting Changes and Recent Accounting Pronouncements: The 
company 
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 
No. 115, 
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity 
Securities," in 
1995. The implementation of this statement did not have a 
material impact 
on results of operations. 
In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
issued SFAS No. 
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under SFAS No. 
123, companies 
can elect to account for stock-based compensation plans 
using a 
fair-value-based method or continue measuring compensation 
expense for 
these plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed in 
Accounting 
Principles Board opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123 requires that 
companies 
electing to continue using the intrinsic method make pro 
forma disclosures 
of net income and earnings per share as if the fair-value-
based method of 
accounting had been applied. The company will adopt the 
disclosure 
requirements of SFAS No. 123 in fiscal 1997. 
Because the company anticipates continuing to account for 
stock-based 
compensation using the intrinsic value method, SFASNo. 123 
will not have an 
impact on the company's results of operations or financial 
position. 
Income Taxes: The company records income taxes in accordance 
with the asset 
and liability method of accounting. Deferred taxes are 
recognized for the 
estimated taxes ultimately payable or recoverable based on 
enacted tax law. 
Changes in enacted tax rates are reflected in the tax 
provision as they 
occur. 
Earnings Per Share: Earnings per share of Common Stock are 
based on the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the 
year. The dilutive 
effects of Common Stock equivalents were not significant in 
any year 
presented. 
Fiscal Year: The company's fiscal year ends on the last 
Saturday in 
October. Fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994 consisted of 52 
weeks. 
 B Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Marketable 
Securities The 
company considers all investments with an original maturity 
of three months 
or less on their acquisition date to be cash equivalents. 
The company 
classifies investments with an original maturity of more 
than three months 
on their acquisition date as short-term marketable 
securities. Short-term 
marketable securities at October 28, 1995, consisted of 
Adjustable Rate 
Mortgage Backed Securities with variable maturities through 
2027. The 
company's cash and cash equivalents and short-term 
marketable securities at 
October 26, 1996, and October 28, 1995, consisted of the 
following (cost 
approximates fair value, in thousands): 
                                October 26, 1996        
October 28, 1995 
                        Cash and Cash   Short-term      Cash 
and 
CashShort-term                         Equivalents     
Marketable 
Securities   EquivalentsMarketable Securities 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
        Commercial paper        $ 49,862        $14,642 $ 
22,312 
        Municipal securities    85,900          95,140 
        Preferred securities    14,000          31,000 
        Other   8,496           28,050 
Available-for-sale securities                   $8,489 
Cash            30,215          13,037 
Total           $188,473        $14,642 $189,539$8,489 
C Inventories Inventoriable expenses, packages and supplies 
amounting to 
approximately $66,100,000 at October 26, 1996, and 
$56,900,000 at October 
28, 1995, are stated at cost determined by the last-in, 
first-out method 
and are $27,100,000 and $26,100,000 lower in the respective 
years than such 
inventories determined under the first-in, first-out method. 
Turkey 
products amounting to $15,400,000 at October 26, 1996, and 
$8,100,000 at 
October 28, 1995, are stated at cost determined by the last-
in, first-out 
method and are $2,000,000 lower in 1996 and $900,000 lower 
in 1995 than 
such inventories determined under the first-in, first-out 
method. 
D Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements Long-term 
debt consists of: 
                        October 26,     October 28, (In 
Thousands)      
1996    1995 
Industrial revenue bonds        with variable interest 
rates,   due 1999 to 
2005        $ 7,750 $ 5,700 
Promissory notes, principal and         interest due 
annually through 2001, 
    interest at 6.5% and 8.9%, secured      by limited 
partnership 
interests        in affordable housing   11,259  13,390 
Medium term unsecured notes,    $35,000,000 maturing in 2002 
and        
$75,000,000 maturing in 2006, with      interest at 7.16% 
and 7.35%,    
respectively    110,000  
Other           542      
                        129,551 19,090 
Less current maturities 2,548   2,131 
                        $127,003        $16,959 
At October 26, 1996, the company had unused lines of credit 
of $10,000,000 
for short-term borrowing. A fixed fee is paid for the 
availability of 
credit lines. Amounts due related to long-term debt for each 
of the next 
five years are $2.5 million, $2.7 million, $3.9 million, 
$25.4 million and 
$24.1 million, respectively. Total interest paid during 
fiscal 1996, 1995 
and 1994 was $1,629,000, $1,582,000 and $1,791,000, 
respectively. 
E Benefit Plans The company and its subsidiaries have 
several 
noncontributory defined benefit plans and defined 
contribution plans 
covering most employees. Total costs associated with the 
company's defined 
contribution benefit plans in 1996, 1995 and 1994 were 
$8,128,000, 
$8,147,000 and $7,880,000, respectively. Benefits for 
defined benefit 
pension plans covering hourly employees are provided based 
on stated 
amounts for each year of service while plan benefits 
covering salaried 
employees are based on final average compensation. The 
company's funding 
policy is to make annual contributions of not less than the 
minimum 
required by applicable regulations. 
A summary of the components of net periodic pension cost for 
defined 
benefit plans is as follows: 
(In Thousands)  1996    19951994 
Service cost   benefits earned  during the year $ 8,631 $ 
7,656$ 7,839 
Interest cost on projected      benefit obligation      
32,158  31,67030,201 
Actual return on plan assets    (35,569)        
(62,186)(25,298) 
Net amortization and deferral   143     29,312(3,912) 
Net pension costs       $ 5,363 $ 6,452$ 8,830 
Assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plans 
were: 
                1996    19951994 
Weighted average discount rates 7.75%   7.75%8.25% 
Rates of increase in    compensation levels     5.00    
5.005.50 
Expected long-term rate of return       on assets       9.50    
9.509.50 
The following table sets forth the plans' funded status and 
amounts 
recognized in the statements of financial position: 
                        October 26, 1996        October 28, 
                        Plans Whose     Plans Whose     
Plans WhosePlans 
Whose                  Assets Exceed   Accrued Benefits        
Assets 
ExceedAccrued Benefits (In Thousands)    Accrued Benefits        
Exceed 
Assets   Accrued BenefitsExceed Assets 
Actuarial present value of benefit obligations: 
        Vested benefit obligation       $335,796        $ 
28,051        
$329,274$ 26,646 
        Nonvested benefit obligation    23,239  7,958   
23,0467,558 
        Accrued benefits        359,035 36,009  
352,32034,204 
        Effects of estimated future pay increases       
37,036  7,798   
37,7565,951 
        Projected benefit obligations   396,071 43,807  
390,07640,155 
        Plan assets at fair value       435,033         
415,983 
        Projected benefit obligations in excess of              
(less than) 
benefit plan assets (38,962)        43,807  (25,907)40,155 
        Unrecognized prior service cost (9,337) (2,111) 
(10,195)(1,517) 
        Unrecognized net gain (loss)    7,954   (9,229) 
9,592(12,245) 
        Remaining net asset (obligation) at transition  
(348)   (5,007) 
(454)(5,703) 
        Adjustment required to recognize minimum liability              
9,05013,514 
        Net pension liability (asset) in statements of          
financial 
position      $ (40,693)      $ 36,510        $ (26,964)$ 
34,204 
As of the 1996 valuation date, plan assets included Common 
Stock of the 
company having a market value of $70,888,760. 
F Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions The company 
provides medical 
and life insurance benefits to certain retired employees. 
Eligible 
employees who retired prior to January 1, 1987, remain on 
the medical plan 
in effect when they retired. The medical plan for eligible 
employees who 
retired after January 1, 1987, is automatically modified to 
incorporate 
plan benefit and plan provision changes whenever they are 
made to the 
active employee plan. Employees hired after January 1, 1990, 
are eligible 
for postretirement medical coverage but must pay the full 
cost of the 
coverage. 
A summary of the components of postretirement benefit costs 
is as follows: 
(In Thousands)  1996    19951994 
Postretirement benefit cost   
        Service cost of                 benefits earned $ 
2,533 $ 1,933$ 2,007 
        Interest cost of                benefit obligation      
17,571  
15,76915,623 
        Net amortization of             deferred gains  
(176)   (1,642)(750) 
                        $19,928 $16,060$16,880 
The actuarial present value of postretirement benefit 
obligations and the 
amount reported in the Consolidated Statements of Financial 
Position as of 
October 26, 1996, and October 28, 1995, are as follows: 
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligations as of the 
August 1 
measurement date: 
(In Thousands)  1996    1995 
Retirees        $170,765        $169,580 
Fully eligible active participants      22,463  20,935 
Other active participants       50,491  47,951 
                        243,719 238,466 
Unrecognized net gains (losses) (3,406) 1,247 
Unrecognized prior service cost 3,787 
Benefit payments subsequent to  measurement date        
(4,484)(4,054) 
Accrued postretirement  benefit cost    $239,616        
$235,659 
Assumptions used in determining the accumulated 
postretirement benefit 
obligation: 
        1996    19951994 
Medical plan cost       trend rate      6.5% declining  7.0% 
declining7.5% 
declining                    to 5.5% in      to 5.5% in      
to 5.5% in     
                 year 2004       year 1998       year 1998 
Weighted average        discount rate   7.75%   7.75%8.25% 
 
 

 
The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant 
effect on the 
amount reported. For example, a one percent increase in the 
health care 
cost trend rate would increase the accumulated 
postretirement benefit 
obligation by $19.3 million at October 26, 1996, and the net 
periodic cost 
by $1.7 million for the year. 
G Income Taxes The components of the provision for income 
taxes are as follows: 
(In Thousands)  1996    19951994 
Current:        U.S. Federal    $39,124 $57,899$65,808 
        State   9,311   11,18013,146 
                        48,435  69,07978,954 
Deferred: 
        U.S. Federal    (2,136) 4,645(5,067) 
        State   (233)   519(792) 
                        (2,369) 5,164(5,859) 
                        $46,066 $74,243$73,095 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of 
temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax 
purposes. The 
company believes that, based upon its lengthy and consistent 
history of 
profitable operations, it is probable that the net deferred 
tax assets of 
$80.3 million will be realized on future tax returns, 
primarily from the 
generation of future taxable income. Significant components 
of the deferred 
income tax liabilities and assets were as follows: 
                        October 26,     October 28, (In 
Thousands)      
1996    1995 
Deferred tax liabilities   
        Tax over book depreciation      $(28,427)$(27,834) 
        Prepaid pension (15,706)(15,270) 
        Other, net      (7,599)(4,556) 
Deferred tax assets   
        Vacation accrual        3,983   3,712 
        Insurance accruals      4,711   4,155 
        Deferred compensation   6,056   5,482 
        Postretirement benefits 92,899  91,365 
        Pension accrual 10,284  7,996 
        Other, net      14,100  14,409 
Net deferred tax assets $ 80,301        $ 79,459 
Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to 
the company's 
effective tax rate is as follows: 
        1996    19951994 
U.S. statutory rate     35.0%   35.0%35.0% 
State taxes on income,  net of federal tax benefit      4.7     
3.94.2 
All other, net  (3.0)   (.8)(.9) 
Effective tax rate      36.7%   38.1%38.3% 
Total income taxes paid during fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994 
were $38,263,000, 
$89,582,000 and $56,298,000, respectively. 
H Arrangement With FDL Foods, Inc. In 1996, as a result of 
the sale of FDL 
Foods, Inc, (FDL), to a third party, the company terminated 
a five-year 
copacking agreement. Under the agreement, the company 
provided a revolving 
line of credit secured by substantially all of the assets of 
FDL. The 
borrowings under the agreement at October 28, 1995, were 
$19,400,000 and 
were included in Investments and Other Assets. 
I Commitments In order to ensure a steady supply of hogs and 
turkeys and to 
keep the cost of products stable, the company and its 
subsidiary, Jennie-O 
Foods, Inc., have entered into contracts with producers for 
the purchase of 
hogs and turkeys at formula-based prices over periods of up 
to 11 years. 
Under these contracts, the company and Jennie-O Foods are 
committed at 
October 26, 1996, to purchase hogs and turkeys, assuming 
current price 
levels, as follows: 
(In Thousands) 
1997$ 424,606 
1998346,775 
1999312,071 
2000228,930 
2001219,827 
Later years835,533 
Total$2,367,742 
The company has commitments to expend approximately 
$82,458,000 to complete 
construction in progress at various locations at October 26, 
1996. The 
company also has noncancelable operating lease commitments 
on facilities 
and equipment totaling $10,430,000 at October 26, 1996, 
which is payable in 
approximately equivalent annual amounts over the next five 
years. The 
company has also pledged $12.5 million of government 
securities as 
collateral guaranteeing a loan at October 26, 1996. 
J Stock Options Under the company's stock option plans, the 
company may 
grant employees and nonemployee directors options to 
purchase Common Stock 
of the company at 100 percent of the market value on the 
date of grant. The 
company follows APB opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock 
Issued to 
Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its 
employee stock 
options. Under APB No. 25, when the exercisable price of 
employee stock 
options equals the market price of the underlying stock on 
the date of 
grant, no compensation expense is recorded. Options 
outstanding expire at 
various dates ranging from fiscal 2001 through 2006. Options 
are 
exercisable upon grant and are outstanding as follows: 
                                Shares 
Balance October 30, 1993        1,862,000 
Granted 374,000 
Exercised       (383,000) 
Balance October 29, 1994        1,853,000 
Granted 383,000 
Exercised       (275,000) 
Balance October 28, 1995        1,961,000 
Granted 764,000 
Exercised       (165,000) 
Balance October 26, 1996        2,560,000 
K Restructuring Charge The company recorded an $8.7 million 
restructuring 
charge ($5.4 million after tax or $.07 per share) in the 
fourth quarter of 
1996 related to the exit from its catfish business. The 
amount includes 
certain accruals and asset write-downs necessary to 
recognize the ultimate 
loss that will be realized upon exiting the business through 
sale or 
liquidation. Accruals requiring future cash payments at 
October 26, 1996, 
are not material. The accruals recorded reflect management's 
best estimate 
of the net costs to be incurred. 
L Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) The following 
tabulations 
reflect the unaudited quarterly results of operations for 
the years ended 
October 26, 1996, and October 28, 1995: 
 
                                        Gross   NetEarnings 
(In Thousands, 
Except Per Share Data)       Net Sales       Profit  
EarningsPer Share 
        First quarter   $ 724,381       $177,437        $ 
20,667        $0.27 
        Second quarter  746,658 178,460 24,520  0.32 
        Third quarter   749,871 145,972 4,010   0.05 
        Fourth quarter  877,775 198,544 30,211  0.40 
                                $3,098,685      $700,413        
$ 79,408    
    $1.04 
        First quarter   $ 730,720       $202,145        $ 
35,488        $0.46 
        Second quarter  748,046 182,037 25,354  0.33 
        Third quarter   732,356 169,029 21,019  0.28 
        Fourth quarter  835,073 198,730 38,575  0.50 
                                $3,046,195      $751,941        
$120,436    
    $1.57 
Report of Independent Auditors 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors 
Hormel Foods Corporation 
Austin, Minnesota 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of 
financial 
position of Hormel Foods Corporation as of October 26, 1996 
and October 28, 
1995, and the related consolidated statements of operations, 
changes in 
shareholders' investment and cash flows for each of the 
three years in the 
period ended October 26, 1996. These financial statements 
are the 
responsibility of the company's management. Our 
responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these financial statements based on 
our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a 
test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial 
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting 
principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the 
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that 
our audits 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, 
in all material respects, the financial position of Hormel 
Foods 
Corporation at October 26, 1996 and October 28, 1995, and 
the results of 
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period 
ended October 26, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting 
principles. 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
November 26, 1996 
Management's discussion and analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Fiscal years 1996 and 1995 
The company has been working for several years to expand its 
line of 
consumer-branded products to reduce exposure to fluctuating 
commodity 
prices. Considerable progress in achieving this objective 
has been made 
through the introduction of numerous products using turkey, 
chicken and 
beef. However, pork, and to a lesser extent turkey, remain 
the company's 
major raw materials. Fluctuations in these raw material 
prices have a 
significant impact on year-end results. 
Record high feed grain costs throughout most of the year 
resulted in raw 
material prices that were substantially higher than 
anticipated. The 
company's ability to maintain normal margin levels during 
this protracted 
period of higher raw material costs was restricted due to 
large quantities 
of competing proteins, mainly beef, available at extremely 
favorable retail 
prices. The pressure on margins eased somewhat as feed grain 
prices began 
to moderate late in the year and the excess quantities of 
beef declined. 
Earnings for the year were $79,408,000, a decrease of 34.1 
percent from 
1995 earnings of $120,436,000. Net sales in 1996 increased 
1.7 percent to 
$3,098,685,000 from $3,046,195,000 last year. Tonnage volume 
for the year 
decreased 12.1 percent compared to 1995. 
Earnings for the fourth quarter of 1996 declined 21.7 
percent to 
$30,211,000 from $38,575,000 last year. Sales for the 
quarter were 
$877,775,000, a 5.1 percent increase from 1995 sales of 
$835,073,000. 
Tonnage volume declined 7.1 percent in 1996 compared to last 
year. 
The tonnage volume drop experienced for both the quarter and 
year resulted 
from reduced fresh pork sales following the discontinuance 
of a pork supply 
agreement with FDL Foods, Inc., late in 1995. The increase 
in sales 
dollars, while tonnage volume declined, is due to moderately 
higher price 
levels and a product mix which included a significantly 
larger proportion 
of higher priced consumer processed items. 
Selling and delivery expenses for the quarter and year were 
$124,285,000 
and $503,108,000, respectively, as compared to $123,283,000 
and 
$502,729,000 for the same periods in 1995. As a percentage 
of sales, 
selling and delivery expenses decreased slightly to 16.2 
percent from 16.5 
percent last year. 
Marketing expenses increased to $49,079,000 for the quarter 
and 
$209,021,000 for the year compared to $47,802,000 and 
$206,404,000 last 
year. These expenditures emphasize the company's expanding 
base of branded 
consumer products. Continued aggressive advertising and 
promotional 
activities are planned in 1997 to accelerate the growth 
opportunities that 
are becoming available with the moderation of high feed 
grain costs. 
Administrative and general expenses were $20,570,000 and 
$75,659,000 for 
the quarter and year compared to $16,528,000 and 
$65,766,000, respectively, 
in 1995. These expenses increased for the quarter and year 
as a result of 
two initiatives undertaken as part of a strategic review of 
distribution 
and data processing systems. In addition, year-to-date 
expenses reflect a 
$7,500,000 settlement of antitrust suits involving Farm 
Fresh Catfish 
Company. 
In the fourth quarter an $8,700,000 restructuring reserve 
was established 
to recognize potential losses from the sale or liquidation 
of Farm Fresh as 
the company exits the fish business. 
Research and development continues to be an integral part of 
the company's 
strategy to extend existing brands and expand offerings of 
new 
consumer-branded items. Research and development expenses 
for the quarter 
and year were $1,801,000 and $8,022,000, respectively, 
compared to 
$2,003,000 and $7,829,000 for the same periods last year. 
The company's effective tax rate decreased to 36.7 percent 
from 38.1 
percent in 1995. This reflects the disproportionately larger 
effect that 
deductible permanent differences between tax and financial 
income have on 
lower levels of financial income from operations and 
continued returns from 
investments in the Federal Affordable Housing Program. 
Continued moderation of feed grain and raw material prices 
should allow the 
company to return to pre-1996 margin levels and combined 
with aggressive 
marketing programs meet 1997 profit plans. 
Fiscal years 1995 and 1994 
Earnings for the year were $120,436,000, an increase of 2.1 
percent over 
1994 earnings of $117,975,000. Net sales in 1995 declined 
0.6 percent to 
$3,046,195,000 from $3,064,793,000 the previous year. 
Tonnage volume for 
the year decreased 1.4 percent compared to 1994. 
During 1995, wholly owned subsidiary Jennie-O Foods, Inc., 
continued to 
expand its presence in the fast growing turkey business. 
Jennie-O, which 
had its second best year in 1995 and is an important and 
valued contributor 
to company results, expanded its turkey raising capacity by 
exercising an 
option to purchase West Central Turkeys of Pelican Rapids, 
Minn., and also 
began construction of a new processing plant in Montevideo, 
Minn. 
Earnings for the fourth quarter of 1995 were $38,575,000, a 
decrease of 
28.9 percent from the same period in 1994. Net sales 
decreased 0.6 percent 
to $835,073,000 compared to $840,462,000 in the fourth 
quarter of 1994. 
Tonnage volume for the quarter decreased 8.9 percent 
compared to 1994. The 
drop reflected an industrywide initiative by major retailers 
to reduce 
inventories, a resistance to higher prices for commodity-
type products and 
a reduction of fresh pork availability resulting from the 
closing of the 
FDL Foods slaughter operation in Dubuque, Iowa, in September 
1995. FDL 
Foods, Inc., provided fresh pork products to the company 
subsidiary Dubuque 
Foods, Inc., under a co- packing arrangement. 
Selling and delivery expenses for the quarter and year were 
$123,284,000 
and $502,729,000, respectively, compared to $122,175,000 and 
$467,062,000 
for the same periods in 1994. As a percentage of sales, 
selling and 
delivery expenses increased to 16.5 percent from 15.2 
percent the previous 
year which primarily reflected increased spending and 
advertising and 
promotions. 
Marketing expenses increased to $47,802,000 for the quarter 
and 
$206,404,000 for the year as compared to $46,609,000 and 
$184,368,000 in 
1994. 
Administrative and general expenses were $16,528,000 and 
$65,766,000 for 
the quarter and year to date compared to $21,894,000 and 
$65,184,000 in 
1994. The higher administrative and general expenses in the 
fourth quarter 
of 1994 were due to the establishment of a reserve for the 
impairment in 
the carrying value of an affiliated business. 
The company adjusted pension and other postretirement plan 
actuarial 
assumptions as of August 1, 1995. The adjustments included a 
decrease in 
the discount rate from 8.25 percent to 7.75 percent as a 
result of 
generally lower long-term interest rates. (See Note E to the 
Consolidated 
Financial Statements for Fiscal 1995.) The net effect of 
contributions and 
actuarial assumption changes resulted in a decrease in the 
pension 
liability recorded under SFAS No. 87 at October 28, 1995. 
The company's effective tax rate decreased to 38.1 percent 
from 38.3 
percent in 1994. This reflected the initial return from the 
company's 
investment in the Federal Affordable Housing Program. 
Liquidity and Sources of Capital 
The company, as it has for many years, has an exceptionally 
strong balance 
sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable 
securities were 
$203,115,000 at the end of 1996 compared to $198,028,000 
last year. 
Long-term debt increased during the fourth quarter by the 
private placement 
with five insurance companies of $110,000,000 in Senior 
Notes. The Notes 
will mature October 15, 2002, and October 15, 2006, and are 
being used to 
finance an $85,000,000 new plant project in Osceola, Iowa, 
with the 
remaining proceeds being used for other corporate needs. 
Other long-term 
debt consists of industrial revenue bonds with varying 
maturities and loans 
financing investment in affordable housing funds. The 
continuing strong 
balance sheet provides the company with the ability to take 
advantage of 
expansion or acquisition opportunities that may arise. 
During 1996, cash provided by operating activities was 
$109,408,000 
compared to $91,374,000 last year. Changes in cash and cash 
requirements 
from operating activities were in the ordinary course of 
business and 
reflected a return of accounts payable and accrued expenses 
to more normal 
levels than experienced in 1995. 
Cash required for investing activities in 1996 increased to 
$150,321,000 
from $114,797,000 in 1995. The cash was used to continue an 
aggressive 
program to maintain facilities and expand production 
capacities primarily 
at Hormel Foods and Jennie-O Foods, Inc. At the end of the 
year, the 
company had commitments to expend approximately $82,500,000 
to complete 
construction in progress at various locations. 
In addition to the new production plant and distribution 
facility being 
built in Osceola, Iowa, Hormel Foods has major renovation 
and construction 
projects at processing facilities located at Austin, Minn., 
and Fremont, 
Neb. Jennie-O Foods completed and opened a new processing 
facility at 
Montevideo, Minn., in April 1996 and, in June, purchased an 
investment in 
Viking Turkey Hatchery at Detroit Lakes, Minn. Jennie-O 
Foods has numerous 
smaller projects in progress to expand their turkey raising 
and processing 
capacity. 
During the year, the company authorized the repurchase of up 
to five 
million shares of its Common Stock. By the end of the year, 
the company had 
repurchased and retired 1,027,128 shares at a cost of 
$24,708,000. 
Late in the year, the company acquired all the stock of 
Stagg Foods, Inc., 
a manufacturer of chili products for $40,000,000 of the 
company's stock. 
The transaction resulted in the recording of goodwill which 
is being 
amortized over 30 years. 
Financial ratios for 1996 and 1995 are presented below: 
                        1996    1995 
Liquidity Ratios 
        Current ratio   2.7     3.0 
        Receivables turnover    13.4    13.3 
        Days sales in receivables       27.2    27.7 
        Inventory turnover      10.0    11.2 
        Days sales in inventory 41.3    33.6 
Leverage Ratio 
        Long-term debt to equity        16.5%2.6% 
Operating Ratios 
        Pretax profit to net worth      16.5%28.0% 
        Pretax profit to total assets   9.4%16.1% 
Responsibilities For Financial Statements 
The accompanying financial statements were prepared by the 
management of 
Hormel Foods Corporation which is responsible for their 
integrity and 
objectivity. These statements have been prepared in 
accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the 
circumstances 
and, as such, include amounts that are based on our best 
estimates and 
judgments. 
Hormel Foods Corporation has developed a system of internal 
controls 
designed to assure that the records reflect the transactions 
of the company 
and that the established policies and procedures are adhered 
to. This 
system is augmented by well-communicated written policies 
and procedures, a 
strong program of internal audit and well-qualified 
personnel. 
These financial statements have been audited by Ernst & 
Young LLP, 
independent auditors, and their report appears on page 29. 
Their audit is 
conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards and 
includes a review of the company's accounting and financial 
controls and 
tests of transactions. 
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, composed 
solely of outside 
directors, meets periodically with the independent auditors, 
management and 
the internal auditors to assure that each is carrying out 
its 
responsibilities. Both Ernst & Young LLP and our internal 
auditors have 
full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or without 
the presence 
of management, to discuss the results of their audit work 
and their 
opinions on the adequacy of internal controls and the 
quality of financial 
reporting. 
 
R.W. Schlange 
Vice President and Controller 
 
Joel W. Johnson 
Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer 
CORPORATE INFORMATION 
Business Description 
Hormel Foods Corporation is a multinational manufacturer and 
marketer of 
consumer-branded meat and food products, many of which are 
among the best 
known and trusted in the food industry. It enjoys a strong 
reputation among 
consumers, retail grocers and foodservice and industrial 
customers for 
products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, 
convenience and 
value. Hormel Foods Corporation is owned by approximately 
11,200 
shareholders and comprised of nearly 10,900 employees, 
including 
subsidiaries. 
Corporate Headquarters 
Hormel Foods Corporation 
1 Hormel Place 
Austin, MN 55912-3680 
Independent Auditors 
Ernst & Young LLP 
1400 Pillsbury Center 
Minneapolis, MN 55402-1491 
Stock Listing 
New York Stock Exchange 
The corporation's daily trading activity, stock price and 
dividend 
information can be found in the financial section of most 
news- 
papers in the New York Stock Exchange listing. 
Transfer Agent and Registrar 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 
161 North Concord Exchange 
P.O. Box 738 
South St. Paul, MN 55075-0738 
For the convenience of shareholders, a toll- 
free number (1-800-468-9716) can be used whenever questions 
arise regarding 
changes in registered ownership, lost or stolen 
certificates, address 
changes or other matters pertaining to the transfer of stock 
or shareholder 
records. When requesting information, shareholders must 
provide their tax 
identification number, the name(s) in which their stock is 
registered and 
their record address. 
If you hold stock in more than one account, duplicate 
mailings of financial 
information may result. You can help eliminate the added 
expense by 
requesting that only one copy be sent. Please supply the 
transfer agent 
with the names in which all accounts are registered and the 
name of the 
account for which you wish to receive mailings. This will  
not in any way affect dividend check mailings. 
Hormel Foods Corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan, 
available to 
shareholders, allows for full or partial dividend 
reinvestment and 
voluntary cash purchases with brokerage commissions or other 
service fees 
paid by the company. Automatic Debit for Cash Contributions 
is also 
available. This is a convenient method to have money 
automatically 
withdrawn each month from a checking or savings account and 
invested in 
your Dividend Reinvestment Plan account. To enroll in the 
plan or obtain 
additional information, contact Norwest Bank Minnesota, 
N.A., using the 
address or telephone number provided with their listing in 
this section as 
company transfer agent and registrar. 
An optional Direct Dividend Deposit service offers 
shareholders a 
convenient method of having quarterly dividend payments 
electronically 
deposited into their personal checking or savings account. 
The dividend 
payment is made in the account each payment date, providing 
shareholders 
with immediate use of their money. For information about the 
service and 
how to participate, contact Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., 
transfer agent. 
Dividends 
Quarterly dividends are typically paid on the fifteenth of 
February, May, 
August and November. Postal delays may cause receipt dates 
to vary. 
Reports and Publications 
Copies of the company's Form 10-K annual report to the 
Securities and Exchange  
Commission (SEC), the Form 10-Q quarterly  
reports to the SEC, proxy statement, quarterly  
earnings releases, the Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
brochure or other 
printed corporate literature are available free of charge 
upon request. 
Telephone (507) 437-5164. 
Questions About Hormel Foods 
Shareholder Inquiries 
(507) 437-5669 
Analyst/Investor Inquiries 
(507) 437-5950 
Media Inquiries 
(507) 437-5345 
Annual Meeting 
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held Tuesday, 
January 28, 1997, 
in the Richard L. Knowlton Auditorium at Austin (Minn.) High 
School. The 
meeting will convene at 8:00 p.m. 
Trademarks 
Throughout this Annual Report to Shareholders, references in 
italic 
represent valuable trademarks important to and owned by 
Hormel Foods 
Corporation or its subsidiaries. 
Consumer Affairs 
Inquiries regarding products of Hormel Foods Corporation 
should be addressed to: 
Consumer Affairs Department 
Hormel Foods Corporation 
1 Hormel Place 
Austin, MN 55912-3680 
or call 1-800-523-4635 
Common Stock Data 
The high and low closing price of the company's common stock 
and the 
dividends per share declared for each fiscal quarter of 1996 
and 1995, 
respectively, are shown below.  
1996    High    Low     Dividend 
First Quarter   251/2   227/8   $.15 
Second Quarter  273/4   24      $.15 
Third Quarter   27      227/8   $.15 
Fourth Quarter  241/4   201/2   $.15 
1995    High    Low     Dividend 
First Quarter   263/8   233/4   $.145 
Second Quarter  277/8   251/8   $.145 
Third Quarter   27      241/8   $.145 
Fourth Quarter  267/8   233/8   $.145 
 
 
 






