10-K


mid-america_10k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008.

OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ______ to
______

Commission File Number:

1-12762

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “accelerated filer,”
“large accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act

Large
      accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated
      filer

o

Non-accelerated
      filer

o

(Do not check if a
      smaller reporting company)

Smaller
      Reporting Company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).

o

Yes

þ

No

As of June 30, 2008, the aggregate market
value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
was $1,370,618,258, based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding
of each of the issuer's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable
date:

Class

Outstanding
      at February 6, 2009

Common Stock,
      $.01 par value per share

28,226,241
      shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Parts Into
      Which Incorporated

Certain
      portions of the Proxy Statement for the

Part
      III

Annual Meeting
      of Shareholders to be held May 28,

2009 to be
      filed with the Securities and Exchange

Commission
      pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later

than 120 days
      after the end of the fiscal year covered

by this Annual
      Report on Form 10-K.

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.


PART I

Risks Associated with
Forward-Looking Statements

Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. considers this and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K to contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to our expectations for future
periods. Forward looking statements do not discuss historical fact, but instead
include statements related to expectations, projections, intentions or other
items related to the future. Such forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, statements concerning property acquisitions and dispositions,
development and renovation activity as well as other capital expenditures,
capital raising activities, rent growth, occupancy, and rental expense growth.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,”
“estimates,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended
to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the results
of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such factors include, among other things, unanticipated adverse business
developments affecting us, or our properties, adverse changes in the real estate
markets and general and local economies and business conditions. Although we
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained
herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore
such forward-looking statements included in this report may not prove to be
accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the
forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information
should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the
results or conditions described in such statements or our objectives and plans
will be achieved.

The
following factors, among others, could cause our future results to differ
materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

inability to generate sufficient cash flows due to market conditions,
  changes in supply and/or demand, competition, uninsured losses, changes in tax
  and housing laws, or other factors;

increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs;

failure of new acquisitions to achieve anticipated results or be
  efficiently integrated into us;

failure of development communities to lease-up as anticipated;

inability of a joint venture to perform as expected;

inability to acquire additional or dispose of existing apartment units
  on favorable economic terms;

losses from catastrophes in excess of our insurance coverage;

unexpected capital needs;

inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;

potential liability for environmental contamination;

adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes;

litigation and compliance costs associated with laws requiring access
  for disabled persons;

imposition of federal taxes if we fail to qualify as a REIT under the
  Internal Revenue Code in any taxable year or foregone opportunities to ensure
  REIT status;

inability to acquire funding through the capital markets;

inability to pay required distributions to maintain REIT status due to
  required debt payments;

changes in interest rate levels, including that of variable rate debt,
  such as extensively used by us;

loss
  of hedge accounting treatment for interest rate swaps due to volatility in the
  financial markets;

the
  continuation of the good credit of our interest rate swap and cap providers;


the
  availability of credit, including mortgage financing, and the liquidity of the
  debt markets, including that provided to us by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, at
  present operating under the conservatorship of the United States Government;
  and

inability to meet loan covenants.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Overview of
Mid-America

Founded in
1994, Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. is a Memphis, Tennessee-based
self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, that
focuses on acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in the Sunbelt
region of the United States. We, together with our subsidiaries, report as a
single business segment. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 100% of 143
properties representing 41,928 apartment units, 20 of which were under
construction, and had a 33.33% ownership interest in Mid-America Multifamily
Fund I, LLC, or Fund I, which owned 2 properties containing 626 apartment units.
Our apartment communities were located in 13 states.

Mid-America’s business is conducted principally through Mid-America
Apartments, L.P., which we refer to as our operating partnership. Mid-America is
the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 289,449 common
units of partnership interest, or common units, comprising a 1% general
partnership interest in the operating partnership as of December 31, 2008.
Mid-America’s wholly-owned qualified REIT subsidiary, MAC II of Delaware, Inc.
is a limited partner in the operating partnership and, as of December 31, 2008,
held 26,251,923 common units, or 90.70% of all outstanding common
units.

Our
corporate offices are located at 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis Tennessee 38138 and
our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. As of December 31, 2008, we had 1,173
full time employees and 72 part time employees.

Unless the
context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to
“we,” “us,” “our,” “the company,” or “Mid-America” refer collectively to
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Operating
Philosophy

Mid-America’s primary objectives are to protect and grow existing
property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund
its dividend through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to
create new shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. Mid-America
focuses on growing shareholder value by effectively and efficiently operating
our existing investments and, when accretive to shareholder value, through new
investments.

Investment Focus

. Mid-America’s
primary investment focus is on apartment communities in the Sunbelt region of
the United States. We believe that sustaining a relatively young portfolio with
continued growth potential is important, and believe that we have one of the
younger portfolios in the apartment sector. We are focused on the acquisition of
new properties with exceptional growth potential and properties that we believe
can be repositioned with appropriate use of capital and our operating management
skills. We are currently focusing on increasing our investments in relatively
new properties within our current geographic area with the potential for above
average growth. We have an existing joint venture whose goal is to acquire and
reposition properties 7 – 15 years old that has now completed its investment
program. We are working to establish a new joint venture to continue this
investment strategy.


Beginning in
2005, Mid-America began an initiative of upgrading a significant number of our
existing apartment communities, as well as a limited program of developing new
apartments, principally as expansions of existing communities. We will continue
our established process of selling mature assets, and will adapt our investment
focus to opportunities and markets. In order to improve our return on
investment, we have from time-to-time invested with joint venture partners and
anticipate this will be a growing part of our strategy.

High
Quality Assets

. Mid-America has one of the
younger REIT portfolios, and strives to maintain a young portfolio of our assets
in excellent condition, believing that continuous capital replacement and
maintenance will lead to higher long-run returns on investment. Mid-America
periodically and selectively sells assets to ensure that our portfolio consists
primarily of high quality, well-located properties within our market area.

Diversified Market Focus

. We believe
the stability of our cash flow is enhanced and it will generate higher risk
adjusted cash flow returns, with lower volatility, through our diversified
strategy of investments over both primary and secondary markets throughout the
Sunbelt region of the United States.

Intensive
Property and Asset Management Focus

.
Mid-America has traditionally emphasized property management, and over the past
several years, we have deepened our asset management functions to provide
additional support in marketing, training, ancillary income and, most recently,
revenue management. A large majority of Mid-America’s property managers are
Certified Apartment Managers, a designation established by the National
Apartment Association, which provides training for on-site manager
professionals. Mid-America also provides our own in-house leadership development
program consisting of an 18-month, three-module program followed by two
comprehensive case studies which was developed with the assistance of U.S.
Learning, Inc.

Decentralized Operational Structure

.
Mid-America operates in a decentralized manner. We believe that our
decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge,
provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is
beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. To support this
decentralized operational structure, senior and executive management, along with
various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and
reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent
on-site visitations. In 2004, Mid-America completed the installation of the
property and accounting modules of a new web-based property management system
that increased the amount of information shared between senior and executive
management and the properties on a real time basis, improving the support
provided to on-site property operations. In 2005, we made significant
improvements to our operating platform and we expect these enhancements will
help capture more operating efficiencies, continue to support effective expense
control and provide for various expanded revenue management practices. In 2007,
we implemented a new “yield management” pricing program that we expect will help
our property managers to optimize rental revenues. We also installed new
purchase order and accounts payable software in 2007 and implemented processes
to provide improved controls and management information. In 2008, we implemented
revised utility billing processes, rolled out new web-sites enabling on-line
lease applications and improved web-based marketing programs, and we anticipate
continued enhancements in 2009.

Proactive Balance Sheet and
Portfolio Management

Mid-America
focuses on improving the net present value of each share of Mid-America common
stock. We routinely evaluate each asset and from time-to-time sell those that no
longer fit our strategy. We make new investments and issue new equity when
management believes it can add to value per share. In the past, Mid-America has
sold assets to fund share repurchases when, in management’s view, shareholder
value would be enhanced.


Strategies

Mid-America
seeks to increase operating cash flow and earnings per share to maximize
shareholder value through a balanced strategy of internal and external growth.

Operating
Growth Strategy

. Mid-America's goal is to
maximize our return on investment in each apartment community by increasing
revenues, tightly controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy
levels and reinvesting as appropriate. The steps taken to meet these objectives
include:

providing management information and improved customer services through
  technology innovations;

utilizing systems to enhance property
  managers’ ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rents in response to local
  market conditions and individual unit amenities;

developing new ancillary income programs
  aimed at offering new services to residents, including telephone, cable, and
  internet access, on which we generate fee and commission income;

implementing programs to control
  expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives, including measuring
  and passing on to residents the cost of various expenses, including water and
  other utility costs;

analyzing individual asset productivity
  performances to identify best practices and improvement areas;

proactively maintaining the physical
  condition of each property;

improving the “curb appeal” of the
  apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements,
  and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to maintain market
  leadership positions;

compensating employees through
  performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs;

maintaining a hands-on management style
  and “flat” organizational structure that emphasizes senior management's
  continued close contact with the market and employees;

selling or exchanging underperforming
  assets;

repurchasing or issuing shares of common
  or preferred stock when cost of capital and asset values permit;

aggressively managing lease expirations
  to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of
  property staffing;

allocating additional capital, including
  capital for selective interior and exterior improvements, where the investment
  will generate the highest returns for Mid-America; and

acquiring and from time to time
  developing properties when expected returns exceed our investment hurdle
  rate.


Joint
Venture Strategy

. One of Mid-America’s
strategies is to co-invest with partners in joint venture opportunities from
time-to-time to the extent we believe that a joint venture will enable us to
obtain a higher return on our investment through management and other fees,
which leverage our skills in acquiring, repositioning, redeveloping and managing
multifamily investments. In addition, the joint venture investment strategy can
provide a platform for creating more capital diversification and lower
investment risk for Mid-America. At present, we have focused the investment on
properties 7 years old or older, with younger acquisitions becoming part of the
wholly-owned portfolio.

Disposition Strategy

. Mid-America from
time-to-time disposes of mature assets, defined as those apartment communities
that no longer meet our investment criteria and long-term strategic objectives.
Typically, Mid-America selects assets for disposition that do not meet our
present investment criteria, including estimated future return on investment,
location, market, potential for growth, and capital needs. Mid-America may from
time-to-time also dispose of assets for which we receive an offer meeting or
exceeding our return on investment criteria even though those assets may not
meet the disposition criteria disclosed above. No apartment communities were
sold during 2008.

Acquisition Strategy

. One of
Mid-America’s growth strategies is to acquire and redevelop apartment
communities that meet our investment criteria and focus as discussed above when
the expected returns exceed our investment hurdle rate, generally defined as our
estimated cost of equity plus 20%. Mid-America has extensive experience and
research-based skills in the acquisition and repositioning of multifamily
communities. In addition, Mid-America will acquire newly built and developed
communities that can be purchased on a favorable pricing basis. We will continue
to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this strategy to increase
the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets in the Sunbelt
region of the United States.

The following apartment communities
were purchased during 2008:

Number

Property

Location

of Units

Date
      Purchased

100% Owned Properties:

Cascade at Fall Creek

Humble (Houston),
      TX


January 10,

Providence at Brier Creek

Raleigh, NC


May 21, 2008

The Edge at Lyon's Gate

Gilbert
      (Phoenix), AZ


July 31,

The Sanctuary at Oglethorpe

Atlanta, GA


August 13, 2008

Village Oaks

Temple Terrace
      (Tampa), FL


August 27,

Village Oaks

(1)

Temple Terrace (Tampa), FL


Various

1,340

33.33% Owned Properties through Fund I:

Milstead Village

Kennesaw
      (Atlanta), GA


January 17,

Greenwood Forest

Greenwood Forest (Houston), TX


March 27, 2008


Total 2008 Acquisitions

1,966

____________________

(1)

On August 27, 2008, we purchased 215 units of the
      234-unit Village Oaks apartments located in Temple Terrace, Florida, a
      suburb of Tampa. The remaining 19 units had previously been sold as
      condominiums and it is our intent to acquire these units if and when they
      become available, and operate them as apartment rentals with the rest of
      the community. During the remainder of 2008, we acquired four of the
      remaining 19 units.


Development Strategy

. In 2006,
Mid-America began some limited expansion development projects on adjacent land
to existing apartment communities using fixed price contracts. We do not
currently intend to maintain a dedicated development staff or to expand into
development in a significant way. We prefer to capture accretive new growth
through opportunistically acquiring new properties.

Common and Preferred
Stock

Mid-America
continuously reviews opportunities for lowering our cost of capital, and
increasing net present value per share. We evaluate opportunities to repurchase
stock when we believe that our stock price is below our net present value and
accordingly repurchased common stock, funded by asset sales, between 1999 and
2001. Mid-America also looks for opportunities where we can acquire or develop
apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by stock sales,
when the investment return is projected to substantially exceed our cost of
capital. We will also opportunistically seek to lower our cost of capital
through refinancing preferred stock as we did in 2003, 2006 and 2007.

On November
3, 2006, Mid-America entered into a sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald &
Co. to sell up to 2,000,000 shares of Mid-America’s common stock, from
time-to-time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated transactions through a
controlled equity offering program. In July, 2008, we entered into a second
controlled equity offering sales agreement with similar terms authorizing the
sale of up to 1,350,000 shares of common stock.

The
following are the issuances of common stock which have been made through these
agreements through December 31, 2008:

Net

Number of

Net

Average

Shares Sold

Proceeds

Sales Price


194,000

$

11,481,292

$

59.18


323,700

$

18,773,485

$

58.00


1,955,300

$

103,588,758

$

52.98

Total

2,473,000

$

133,843,535

$

54.12

In October
2007, Mid-America redeemed all of our issued and outstanding 9¼% Series F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $11.9 million.

Mid-America
also has a direct stock purchase plan which allows for the optional cash
purchase of common stock of at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given
month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. We, in our absolute
discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of
$5,000. Throughout 2008, we issued a total of 402,593 shares through the direct
stock purchase plan at an average 1.5% discount, and terminated the discount in
December, 2008. No waivers were granted during 2008.

Share Repurchase
Program

In 1999,
Mid-America’s Board of Directors approved an increase in the number of shares of
Mid-America’s common stock authorized to be repurchased to 4 million shares. As
of December 31, 2008, Mid-America had repurchased a total of approximately 1.86
million shares (8% of the shares of common stock and common units outstanding as
of the beginning of the repurchase program). From time-to-time, we intend to
sell assets based on our disposition strategy outlined in this Annual Report and
use the proceeds to repurchase shares when we believe that shareholder value is
enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include the share price, asset
dispositions and pricing, financing agreements and rates of return. No shares
were repurchased from 2002 through 2008 under this plan.


Competition

All of
Mid-America’s apartment communities are located in areas that include other
apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of
competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The owners of competing
apartment communities may have greater resources than Mid-America, and the
managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than
Mid-America’s management. Moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured
housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing
alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.

Apartment
communities compete on the basis of monthly rent, discounts, and facilities
offered such as apartment size and amenities, and apartment community amenities,
including recreational facilities, resident services, and physical property
condition. Mid-America makes capital improvements to both our apartment
communities and individual apartments on a regular basis in order to maintain a
competitive position in each individual market.

Environmental
Matters

As part of
the acquisition process, Mid-America obtains environmental studies on all of our
apartment communities from various outside environmental engineering firms. The
purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at
the apartment communities and to assess the status of environmental regulatory
compliance. These studies generally include historical reviews of the apartment
communities, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of
the sites and surrounding properties, visual inspection for the presence of
asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, and underground storage tanks and
the preparation and issuance of written reports. Depending on the results of
these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water
analysis, will be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination.
These studies must be satisfactorily completed before Mid-America takes
ownership of an acquisition community; however, no assurance can be given that
the studies identify all significant environmental problems.

Under
various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of
real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain
hazardous or toxic substances on properties. Such laws often impose such
liability without regard to whether the owner caused or knew of the presence of
hazardous or toxic substances and whether the storage of such substances was in
violation of a resident’s lease. Furthermore, the cost of remediation and
removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such
substances, or the failure to promptly remediate such substances, may adversely
affect the owner’s ability to sell such real estate or to borrow using such real
estate as collateral.

Mid-America
is aware of environmental concerns specifically relating to potential issues
resulting from mold in residential properties and has in place an active
management and preventive maintenance program that includes procedures
specifically related to mold. Mid-America has established a policy requiring
residents to sign a mold addendum to lease. Mid-America has also purchased a $5
million insurance policy that covers remediation and exposure to mold. The
current policy expires in 2010 but is renewable at that time. Mid-America,
therefore, believes that our exposure to this issue is limited and controlled.


The
environmental studies received by Mid-America have not revealed any material
environmental liabilities. Mid-America is not aware of any existing conditions
that would currently be considered an environmental liability. Nevertheless, it
is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that
there are material environmental liabilities of which Mid-America is unaware.
Moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or
regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by
neighboring properties or residents.

Mid-America
believes that our apartment communities are in compliance in all material
respects with all applicable federal, state and local ordinances and regulations
regarding hazardous or toxic substances and other environmental matters.

Website Access to Registrant’s
Reports

Mid-America
files annual and periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All filings made by Mid-America with the SEC may be copied or read at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC as Mid-America does. The website is
http://www.sec.gov.

Additionally, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, along with
Mid-America’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
any amendments to the aforementioned filings, are available on Mid-America’s
website free of charge. The filings can be found on the Investor Relations page
under SEC Filings. Mid-America’s website also contains our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the
committees of the Board of Directors. These items can also be found on the
Investor Relations page under Governance Documents. Mid-America’s website
address is http://www.maac.net. Reference to Mid-America’s website does not
constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site
and should not be considered part of this document. All of the aforementioned
materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting the Investor
Relations Department at Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc., 6584 Poplar
Avenue, Memphis, TN 38138.

Recent
Developments

Dispositions.

On January 15, 2009,
Mid-America sold the Woodstream apartments, a 304-unit community in Greensboro,
North Carolina.

Acquisitions.

On January 16, 2009,
Mid-America acquired one of the 15 remaining units of the Village Oaks
apartments located in Temple Terrace (Tampa), Florida.

Qualification as a Real Estate
Investment Trust

We have elected to be taxed as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. To
continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which,
among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real
estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that
we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net
capital gain) to our shareholders annually. As a qualified REIT, we generally
will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our
net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our shareholders
annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be
subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and our
property. In 2008, we declared total distributions of $2.46 per common share to
our shareholders.


ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.

In addition to the other information contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered
carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or
results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these
risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations.

Failure to generate sufficient cash
flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to
shareholders.

Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common
dividends to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from
operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred
dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing.
Funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be
insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. Such events or
conditions could include:

competition from other apartment
  communities;

overbuilding of new apartment units or
  oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely
  affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in
  order to lease apartment units;

conversion of condominiums and single
  family houses to rental use;

job losses resulting from further
  declines in economic activity;

increases in operating costs (including
  real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors,
  which may not be offset by increased rents;

inability to rent apartments on
  favorable economic terms;

changes in governmental regulations and
  the related costs of compliance;

changes in tax laws and housing laws
  including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating
  multifamily housing;

withdrawal of Government support of
  apartment financing through its financial backing of Federal National Mortgage
  Association, or FNMA, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie
  Mac;

an uninsured loss, resulting from a
  catastrophic storm or act of terrorism;

changes in interest rate levels and the
  availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment
  requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates
  decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our
  acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is
  less readily available);

weakness in the overall economy which
  lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing;
  and

the relative illiquidity of real estate
  investments.

At times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment
of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including
our existing property expansion developments). While we have sufficient
liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings
if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could
result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to
shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce
the distribution rate. Any decline in our funds from operations could adversely
affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan
covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock
price.


Our financing could be impacted by
negative capital market conditions.

Recently,
domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty.
Liquidity has tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade
debt, the CMBS, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. A large
majority of apartment financing, and as of December 31, 2008, 89% of our
outstanding debt, is provided by or credit-enhanced by FNMA and Freddie Mac,
which are now under the conservatorship of the U.S. Government. We have seen an
increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic
relationships between LIBOR (which is the basis for the payments to us by our
swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the Fannie Mae
Discount Mortgage Backed Security, or DMBS, and the Freddie Mac Reference Bill
programs, which we believe to be temporary. This creates a risk that our
interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and
it makes forecasting more difficult. Were our credit arrangements with
Prudential Mortgage Capital, credit-enhanced by FNMA, or with Financial Federal,
credit-enhanced by Freddie Mac, to fail, or their ability to lend money to
finance apartment communities to become impaired, we would have to seek
alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable
to us, if at all. In addition, any such event would most likely cause our
interest costs to rise. This could also cause our swaps to become ineffective,
triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. If any of the
foregoing events were to occur it could have a material adverse affect on our
business, financial condition and prospects.

Our credit facilities with FNMA and Freddie Mac expire 2011 – 2018, and
we anticipate that replacement facilities will be at a higher cost and have less
attractive terms.

A change in U.S. government policy with
regard to FNMA and Freddie Mac could seriously impact our financial condition.

The U. S. government has committed $200 billion of preferred equity each
to FNMA and Freddie Mac, and placed them in conservatorship through the end of
2009. The Treasury Department has recently increased FNMA and Freddie Mac’s
portfolio limitation to $900 billion, which at present is required to be reduced
on a phased basis beginning in 2010. Through expansion of their off-balance
sheet lending products (which form the large majority of our borrowing), we
believe that FNMA and Freddie Mac balance sheet limitations will not restrict
their support of lending to the multifamily industry and to us in particular.
Statements supporting their involvement in apartment lending by the heads of
multifamily lending of FNMA, Freddie Mac, and their regulator have recently been
reiterated. Should this support change, it would have a material adverse affect
on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources
of funding. This could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps,
potentially causing a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through
reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could
impair the value of our properties.

A change in the value of our assets
could cause us to experience a cash shortfall and be in default of our loan
covenants.

Mid-America borrows on a secured basis from FNMA, Freddie Mac, and
Regions Bank. A significant reduction in value could require us to post
additional collateral. While we believe that we have significant excess
collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. If we were unable to
meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a
material adverse affect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan
covenants.


Debt level, refinancing and loan
covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results
and our ability to maintain our status as a REIT.

At December 31, 2008, we had total debt outstanding of $1.3 billion.
Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient
cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that
are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT.
We currently intend to limit our total debt to approximately 60% of the
undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not
limit our debt levels. Circumstances may cause us to exceed that target from
time-to-time. As of December 31, 2008, our ratio of debt to undepreciated book
value was approximately 50%. Our Board of Directors can modify this policy at
any time which could allow us to become more highly leveraged and decrease our
ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, we must repay
our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at
attractive rates could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds
from operations. We rely on FNMA and Freddie Mac, which we refer to as the
Agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and have agreements with the
Agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain
covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to
revaluation quarterly. The breach of any one of these covenants would place us
in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our
operations.

Interest rate hedging may be
ineffective.

We rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also
are heavily reliant on the Agencies, which provide credit or credit enhancement
for approximately $1.2 billion of our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2008.
The debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with Prudential
Mortgage Capital (credit-enhanced by FNMA) and Financial Federal
(credit-enhanced by Freddie Mac). We pay fees to the credit facility providers
and the Agencies plus interest which is tied to the FNMA DMBS rate, and the
Freddie Mac Reference Bill Rate. The Agencies have been placed into
conservatorship by the U.S. Government (under the supervision of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency), which has committed $200 billion of capital to each, if
needed.

The interest rate market for the FNMA DMBS rate and the Freddie Mac
Reference Bill Rate, both of which have been highly correlated with LIBOR
interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest
rate swap effectiveness. In our experience, the FNMA DMBS rate has averaged 5
basis points to 12 basis points below LIBOR, and the Freddie Mac Reference Bill
rate has averaged 15 basis points to 17 basis points below LIBOR, but in the
past year the spreads have increased significantly and have been more volatile
than we have historically seen. We believe that the current market illiquidity
is an anomaly and that the spreads and the volatility will return to more stable
historic trends, but we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and
volatility in the market may change. Continued unusual volatility over a period
of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate
swaps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of
operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach with one of our
debt covenants.

The difference in interest rates between the DMBS and Reference Bill
rates and three-month LIBOR, which is a component of the ineffectiveness of the
LIBOR-based swaps, flows through interest expense in the current period, and
together with the recognized ineffectiveness (which is also an adjustment to
current period interest expense), reduces the effectiveness of the swaps.

We also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps to
hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. We use three major banks
to provide nearly 78% of our swaps, JP Morgan Chase, Royal Bank of Canada, and
Deutsche Bank, all of which have high investment grade ratings from Moody’s and
S&P. In the event that one of our swap providers should suffer a significant
downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps may become ineffective, in
which case the value of the swap would be adjusted to value in the current
period, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach with
one of our debt covenants.


One or more interest rate swap or cap
counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure.

We enter into
interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties
that are highly rated (generally, AA- or above by Standard & Poors, or Aa3
or above by Moody’s). We also try to

diversify
our risk amongst several counterparties. In the event one or more of these
counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating
downgrade, this could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap, or lose the
interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. Liquidation of an interest
rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net
present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash
charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach one or more loan covenants.

Variable interest rates may adversely
affect funds from operations.

At December 31, 2008, effectively $185 million of our debt bore interest
at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. We may
incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates.
Variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest
rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the
amount of cash available to pay distributions to shareholders. Our $1.0 billion
secured credit facilities with Prudential Mortgage Capital, credit enhanced by
FNMA, are predominately floating rate facilities. We also have credit facilities
with Freddie Mac totaling $300 million which are variable rate facilities. At
December 31, 2008, a total of $1.2 billion was outstanding under these
facilities. These facilities represent the majority of the variable interest
rates we were exposed to at December 31, 2008. Large portions of the interest
rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate
swaps and caps. Upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed
to the risks of varying interest rates.

Losses from catastrophes may exceed our
insurance coverage.

We carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our
communities, and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in
the future. Some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from
floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be
uninsured. We exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits
and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining
appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable
terms. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be
sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of
our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances,
environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to
use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or
destroyed.

Increasing real estate taxes and
insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition.

As a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real
estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component
of expense. Real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant
increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of our control. If the
costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial
condition could be negatively impacted and our ability to pay our dividend could
be affected.

Property insurance limits may be
inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss
or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of a loan
covenants.

We have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to
windstorms and to the New Madrid earthquake zone. A major wind or earthquake
loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as
well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for
these risks. We may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan
covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect
on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation.


Issuances of additional debt or equity
may adversely impact our financial condition.

Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the
occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and
capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. We cannot
accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. If our
capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional
financing sooner than anticipated. Accordingly, we could become more leveraged,
resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in
our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our
financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the
future.

We are dependent on key
personnel.

Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the
services of executive officers and other personnel. There is substantial
competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of
several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us.

New acquisitions may fail to perform as
expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could
create inefficiencies.

We intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for
rental operations. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired
community up to standards established for our intended market position.
Additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in
managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of
properties. We must also be able to integrate new management and operations
personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. Failures in either
area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall
profitability.

We may not be able to sell communities
when appropriate.

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be
sold quickly. We may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to
economic or other conditions. Further, we own seven communities (of 145 total)
which are subject to restrictions on sale, and are required to be exchanged
through a 1031b tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the
contributing partners. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the
performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition
and ability to make distributions to our security holders.

Environmental problems are possible and
can be costly.

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection
of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real
estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum
product releases at such community. The owner or operator may have to pay a
governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation
and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the
contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability
without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence
of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for
the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties
may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from
environmental contamination emanating from that site. All of our communities
have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified
independent environmental consultant companies. These environmental assessments
have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we
believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition or liquidity. Over the past several years, there
have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of
multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by
the presence of mold in residential real estate.


Some of these
lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. We
cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities
reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our
properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or
that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist.

Our ownership limit restricts the
transferability of our capital stock.

Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single
shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock,
both common and preferred. The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares
if the purchase would result in our losing REIT status. This could happen if a
share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or
in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, owning 50% or more of
our shares. If you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in
violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs, we:

will consider the transfer to be null and
  void;

will not reflect the transaction on our
  books;

may institute legal action to enjoin the
  transaction;

will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to
  those shares;

will not recognize any voting rights for those
  shares;

will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit;
  and

will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any
  profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. If we redeem the shares, you will
  be paid a price equal to the lesser of:

you may lose your power to dispose of the
  shares;

you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if
  the market price of the shares increases; and

you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such
  shares if the market price decreases.

Provisions of our charter and Tennessee
law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.

Ownership Limit.

The 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect
of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent
of our Board of Directors.

Preferred Stock.

Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to
20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may establish the
preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. The issuance of preferred
stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking
control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders’ best
interests. Currently, we have 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% Series H Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock issued and outstanding.

Tennessee Anti-Takeover Statutes.

As a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to
various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance
with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive
mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire
us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our
acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests.


Our investments in joint ventures may
involve risks.

Investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise
be present in our direct investments such as:

the potential inability of our joint venture
  partner to perform;

the joint venture partner may have economic or business
  interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to
  ours;

the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our
  requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies;
  and

the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters
  relating to the property they jointly own.

Although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase
the other owner’s interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may
not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first
refusal.

Failure to qualify as a REIT would
cause us to be taxed as a corporation.

If we failed to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we
would be taxed as a corporation. The Internal Revenue Service may challenge our
qualification as a REIT for prior years, and new legislation, regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal tax consequences of such
qualification. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would
be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus
any applicable alternative minimum tax. In addition, unless entitled to relief
under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment
as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which
qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available
for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax
liability for the year or years involved. In addition, distributions would no
longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in
order to preserve REIT status. We might be required to borrow funds or to
liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our
failure to qualify as a REIT.

Compliance or failure to comply with
laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in
substantial cost.

The Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Housing Act of 1988 and
other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations
be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the
imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private
litigants. These laws may require us to modify our existing communities. These
laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such
buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features
that increase our construction costs. Legislation or regulations adopted in the
future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved
access by disabled persons. We cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with
these laws, which may be substantial.


Failure to make required distributions
would subject us to income taxation.

In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to
stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to
the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). To the extent
that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of
taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the
undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax
on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the
sum of:

85% of ordinary income for that
  year;

95% of capital gain net income for that year;
  and

100% of undistributed taxable income from prior
  years.

Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related
cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require
us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to
satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the
4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year.

Complying with REIT requirements may
cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal
investment opportunities.

To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually
satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature
and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the
ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to
forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal
investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder
our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

Mid-America
seeks to acquire newer apartment communities and those with opportunities for
repositioning through capital additions and management improvement located in
the Sunbelt region of the United States that are primarily appealing to middle
income residents with the potential for above average growth and return on
investment. Approximately 75% of Mid-America's apartment units are located in
Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, and Texas markets. Mid-America's strategic focus is
to provide our residents high quality apartment units in attractive community
settings, characterized by extensive landscaping and attention to aesthetic
detail. We utilize our experience and expertise in maintenance, landscaping,
marketing and management to effectively reposition many of the apartment
communities we acquire to raise occupancy levels and per unit average
rents.

The
following table sets forth certain historical information for the apartment
communities we owned at December 31, 2008:


Approximate

Average

Monthly

Average

Encumbrances at

Rentable

Unit

Rent per

Occupancy

December 31, 2008

Year

Area

Size

Unit at

Percent at

Mortgage/Bond

Year

Management

Number

(Square

(Square

December 31,

December
      31,

Principal

Interest

Maturity

Property

Location

Completed

Commenced

of Units

Footage)

Footage)



(000's)

Rate

Date

100% Owned

Eagle Ridge

Birmingham,
      AL




181,400


$

708.51

95.00

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Abbington
      Place

Huntsville, AL




162,792

1,071

$

618.55

95.39

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Huntsville

Huntsville,
      AL

1989/98



414,736

1,058

$

724.17

91.07

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Montgomery

Montgomery, AL




230,880

1,110

$

767.49

93.75

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)


989,808

1,040

$

713.48

93.17

%

Calais
      Forest

Little Rock, AR




195,000


$

659.76

96.54

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Napa
      Valley

Little Rock,
      AR




183,120


$

627.62

93.75

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Westside
      Creek I & II

Little Rock, AR

1984/86



320,936

1,042

$

704.85

97.08

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)


699,056


$

667.40

95.92

%

Edge at
      Lyon's Gate

Phoenix, AZ




299,208


$

821.66

91.67

%

$

—

Talus
      Ranch

Phoenix,
    AZ




437,280


$

758.16

85.83

%

$

—


736,488


$

783.18

88.13

%

Tiffany
      Oaks

Altamonte
      Springs, FL




234,144


$

755.67

92.36

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Marsh
      Oaks

Atlantic Beach, FL




93,240


$

702.61

80.83

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Indigo
      Point

Brandon,
    FL




194,640


$

800.16

95.42

%

$

—

(4)

(4)

(4)

Paddock Club
      Brandon

Brandon, FL

1997/99



516,120

1,173

$

917.87

94.77

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Preserve at
      Coral Square

Coral Springs,
      FL




528,480

1,101

$

1,255.96

94.79

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Anatole

Daytona Beach, FL




149,136


$

738.08

96.63

%

$

7,000

(10)

1.795%

(10)

10/15/2032

(10)

Paddock Club
      Gainesville

Gainesville,
      FL




293,040

1,110

$

907.20

93.56

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Cooper's
      Hawk

Jacksonville, FL




218,400

1,050

$

796.26

96.15

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Hunter's
      Ridge at Deerwood

Jacksonville,
      FL




295,008


$

818.54

93.45

%

$

—

(8)

(8)

(8)

Lakeside

Jacksonville, FL




344,032


$

733.01

96.88

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Lighthouse at
      Fleming Island

Jacksonville,
      FL




556,110

1,110

$

905.14

92.81

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Jacksonville

Jacksonville, FL

1989/96



475,200

1,080

$

854.66

90.23

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Mandarin

Jacksonville,
      FL




330,336

1,147

$

872.03

92.71

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

St. Augustine
      I & II

Jacksonville, FL

1987/2008



423,392


$

718.70

84.92

%

$

13,235

(20)

(20)

(20)

Woodbridge at
      the Lake

Jacksonville,
      FL




166,004


$

750.03

92.55

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Woodhollow

Jacksonville, FL




342,000


$

729.27

94.67

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Lakeland

Lakeland,
      FL

1988/90



505,296

1,089

$

757.13

91.81

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Savannahs at
      James Landing

Melbourne, FL




238,592


$

739.63

93.75

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Paddock Park
      Ocala

Ocala,
    FL

1986/88



485,280

1,011

$

714.22

79.17

%

$

6,805

(2)(3)

(2)(3)

(2)(3)

Paddock Club
      Panama City

Panama City, FL




283,972

1,118

$

895.11

92.13

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Paddock Club
      Tallahassee

Tallahassee,
      FL

1990/95



329,232

1,083

$

847.22

93.42

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Belmere

Tampa, FL




202,440


$

801.47

95.71

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Links at
      Carrollwood

Tampa,
    FL




214,820


$

848.04

96.52

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Village
      Oaks

Tampa, FL




252,726

1,154

$

990.66

96.35

%

$

—

7,808

7,671,640


$

834.33

92.23

%

High
      Ridge

Athens, GA




186,560

1,166

$

742.72

93.13

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Sanctuary at
      Oglethorpe

Atlanta,
    GA




287,500

1,150

$

1,217.07

96.80

%

$

23,500

6.210%

11/15/2015

Bradford
      Pointe

Augusta, GA




156,288


$

639.69

98.96

%

$

—

(5)

(5)

(5)

Shenandoah
      Ridge

Augusta,
    GA




222,768


$

590.34

94.12

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Westbury
      Creek

Augusta, GA




107,040


$

641.42

93.33

%

$

3,480

(15)

(15)

5/15/2033

(15)

Fountain
      Lake

Brunswick,
      GA




129,800

1,180

$

824.16

88.18

%

$

—

(5)

(5)

(5)

Park
      Walk

College Park, GA




112,716


$

635.24

95.16

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Whisperwood

Columbus,
      GA

80/82/84/86/98


1,008

1,220,688

1,211

$

779.07

88.89

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Willow
      Creek

Columbus, GA

1971/77



246,810


$

597.88

96.84

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Terraces at
      Fieldstone

Conyers,
    GA




351,076

1,111

$

802.10

96.52

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Prescott

Duluth, GA




370,176


$

800.76

94.01

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Lanier

Gainesville,
      GA




395,944

1,151

$

808.29

92.15

%

$

18,984

5.300%

3/1/2014

Lake
      Club

Gainesville, GA




359,950

1,150

$

754.64

84.35

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Whispering
      Pines

LaGrange,
      GA

1982/84



223,128

1,033

$

617.81

95.37

%

$

—

(5)

(5)

(5)

Westbury
      Springs

Lilburn, GA




137,700


$

677.69

89.33

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Austin
      Chase

Macon,
    GA




292,864

1,144

$

756.92

94.14

%

$

—

(8)

(8)

(8)

The
      Vistas

Macon, GA




153,792

1,068

$

642.86

97.22

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)


Approximate

Average

Monthly

Average

Encumbrances at

Rentable

Unit

Rent per

Occupancy

December 31, 2008

Year

Area

Size

Unit at

Percent at

Mortgage/Bond

Year

Management

Number

(Square

(Square

December 31,

December
      31,

Principal

Interest

Maturity

Property

Location

Completed

Commenced

of Units

Footage)

Footage)



(000's)

Rate

Date

Walden Run

McDonough, GA




271,200

1,130

$

717.90

94.17

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Georgetown
      Grove

Savannah,
      GA




239,800

1,090

$

848.78

98.18

%

$

—

Oaks at
      Wilmington Island

Savannah, GA




300,492


$

871.95

96.41

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Wildwood

Thomasville,
      GA

1980/84



223,128

1,033

$

619.44

93.98

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Hidden
      Lake

Union City, GA

1985/87



342,400

1,070

$

690.09

87.19

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Three
      Oaks

Valdosta,
      GA

1983/84



247,920

1,033

$

667.66

90.42

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Huntington
      Chase

Warner Robins, GA




218,400

1,092

$

712.05

95.50

%

$

—

Southland
      Station

Warner Robins,
      GA

1987/90



354,768

1,167

$

701.48

94.74

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Terraces at
      Townelake

Woodstock, GA




575,794

1,147

$

773.47

88.65

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

7,192

7,728,702

1,075

$

749.43

92.66

%

Fairways at
      Hartland

Bowling Green, KY




251,280

1,047

$

705.95

92.08

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Florence

Florence,
      KY




207,000

1,035

$

735.13

90.50

%

$

9,378

5.875%

1/1/2044

Grand Reserve
      Lexington

Lexington, KY




432,530

1,169

$

891.10

88.11

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Lakepointe

Lexington,
      KY




90,624


$

618.00

97.46

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Mansion,
      The

Lexington, KY




138,736


$

652.28

92.39

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Village,
      The

Lexington,
      KY




182,700


$

633.87

96.03

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Stonemill
      Village

Louisville, KY




324,096


$

643.94

94.79

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

1,748

1,626,966


$

712.88

92.62

%

Riverhills

Grenada, MS




81,984


$

445.23

96.88

%

$

—

Crosswinds

Jackson,
    MS

1988/90



443,160

1,231

$

746.69

96.94

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Pear
      Orchard

Jackson, MS




338,430


$

698.82

96.66

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Reflection
      Pointe

Jackson,
    MS




254,856


$

720.52

91.22

%

$

5,880

(11)

1.705%

(11)

5/15/2031

(11)

Lakeshore
      Landing

Ridgeland, MS




171,108


$

653.03

96.43

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Savannah
      Creek

Southaven

,

MS





,



,


$

733.97

94.12

%

$

—

(


)

(


)

(


)

Sutton
      Place

Southaven, MS




268,686

1,062

$

696.40

97.23

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

1,794

1,795,272

1,001

$

697.09

95.60

%

Hermitage at
      Beechtree

Cary, NC




169,750


$

712.45

93.30

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Waterford
      Forest

Cary,
NC




344,448


$

704.89

94.27

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Woodstream

Greensboro, NC




217,056


$

548.69

94.41

%

$

—

Preserve at
      Brier Creek

Raleigh,
    NC

2002/07



518,850

1,153

$

937.85

93.33

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Providence at
      Brier Creek

Raleigh, NC




297,037


$

871.57

70.61

%

$

—

Corners,
      The

Winston-Salem,
      NC




173,520


$

570.00

90.83

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

1,885

1,720,661


$

746.59

89.60

%

Fairways at
      Royal Oak

Cincinnati,
      OH




214,428

1,002

$

664.77

89.25

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)


214,428

1,002

$

664.77

89.25

%

Colony at
      South Park

Aiken,
    SC

1989/91



174,800


$

732.52

92.39

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Woodwinds

Aiken, SC




165,168

1,147

$

739.34

88.89

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Tanglewood

Anderson,
      SC




146,664


$

579.06

91.07

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Fairways,
      The

Columbia, SC




213,840


$

657.94

94.17

%

$

7,735

(12)

1.854%

(12)

5/15/2031

(12)

Paddock Club
      Columbia

Columbia,
      SC

1989/95



367,584

1,094

$

754.00

92.26

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Highland
      Ridge

Greenville, SC




143,976


$

559.45

94.64

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Howell
      Commons

Greenville,
      SC

1986/88



292,668


$

575.74

95.11

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Paddock Club
      Greenville

Greenville, SC




212,160

1,020

$

728.11

93.75

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Park
      Haywood

Greenville,
      SC




156,832


$

566.65

93.27

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Spring
      Creek

Greenville, SC




182,000


$

576.86

96.63

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Runaway
      Bay

Mt. Pleasant,
      SC




177,840


$

923.40

98.08

%

$

8,365

(9)

1.825%

(9)

11/15/2035

(9)

Park
      Place

Spartanburg, SC




195,224

1,061

$

656.69

95.65

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)


Approximate

Average

Monthly

Average

Encumbrances at

Rentable

Unit

Rent per

Occupancy

December 31, 2008

Year

Area

Size

Unit at

Percent at

Mortgage/Bond

Year

Management

Number

(Square

(Square

December 31,

December
      31,

Principal

Interest

Maturity

Property

Location

Completed

Commenced

of Units

Footage)

Footage)



(000's)

Rate

Date

Farmington Village

Summerville, SC




307,440

1,098

$

886.09

92.50

%

$

15,200

3.769%

12/10/2015

2,884

2,736,196


$

691.55

93.83

%

Hamilton
      Pointe

Chattanooga, TN




256,671


$

557.24

96.95

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Hidden
      Creek

Chattanooga,
      TN




259,200


$

589.36

97.67

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Steeplechase

Chattanooga, TN




98,604


$

655.19

95.37

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Windridge

Chattanooga,
      TN




238,728

1,372

$

848.05

98.28

%

$

5,465

(16)

(16)

5/15/2033

(16)

Oaks,
      The

Jackson, TN




87,500


$

579.10

87.00

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Post House
      Jackson

Jackson,
    TN




163,650

1,091

$

655.35

94.67

%

$

5,095

1.655%

10/15/2032

Post House
      North

Jackson, TN




144,720

1,005

$

656.55

90.28

%

$

3,375

(13)

1.705%

(13)

5/15/2031

(13)

Bradford
      Chase

Jackson,
    TN




121,360


$

593.47

87.16

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Woods at Post
      House

Jackson, TN




118,950


$

679.85

90.16

%

$

4,801

6.070%

9/1/2035

Cedar
      Mill

Memphis,
    TN

1973/86

1982/94


297,804

1,079

$

571.18

97.10

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Greenbrook

Memphis, TN

1974/78/83/86


1,037

939,522


$

616.71

91.90

%

$

—

(4)

(4)

(4)

Kirby
      Station

Memphis,
    TN




310,156


$

690.85

96.77

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Lincoln on
      the Green

Memphis, TN

1988/98



535,188


$

687.32

92.88

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Park
      Estate

Memphis,
    TN




96,924

1,182

$

1,027.14

95.12

%

$

—

(4)

(4)

(4)

Reserve at
      Dexter Lake

Memphis, TN

1999/01



792,540

1,071

$

807.24

94.59

%

$

—

(5)

(5)

(5)

River
      Trace

Memphis,
    TN

1981/85



370,920


$

574.04

96.59

%

$

—

Paddock Club
      Murfreesboro

Murfreesboro, TN




268,800

1,120

$

841.18

94.17

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Brentwood
      Downs

Nashville,
      TN




220,220


$

792.96

96.15

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Grand View
      Nashville

Nashville, TN




479,331

1,107

$

914.85

94.46

%

$

—

(1)

(1)

(1)

Monthaven
      Park

Nashville,
      TN

1999/01



427,728


$

795.10

95.39

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Park at
      Hermitage

Nashville, TN




392,480


$

661.67

91.59

%

$

6,645

(17)

1.805%

(17)

2/15/2034

(17)

7,026

6,620,996


$

698.65

94.22

%

N

or

th

woo

d

A

r

li

ng

t

on,

TX





,



$


.



.


%

$

—

(2

)

(2)

(2)

Balcones
      Woods

Austin,
    TX




313,728


$

803.01

87.76

%

$

—

(2

)

(2)

(2)

Grand Reserve
      at Sunset Valley

Austin, TX




198,240


$

914.83

94.76

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Silverado

Austin,
    TX




303,264


$

839.96

90.06

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Stassney
      Woods

Austin, TX




248,832


$

687.28

94.79

%

$

4,050

(18)

1.805%

(18)

2/15/2034

(18)

Travis
      Station

Austin,
    TX




249,888


$

624.57

91.12

%

$

3,585

(19)

1.805%

(19)

2/15/2034

(19)

Woods,
      The

Austin, TX




214,060


$

888.50

93.53

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Celery
      Stalk

Dallas,
    TX




374,740


$

667.58

96.59

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Courtyards at
      Campbell

Dallas, TX




168,200


$

702.22

98.71

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Deer
      Run

Dallas,
    TX




206,720


$

608.10

95.39

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Grand
      Courtyard

Dallas, TX




341,250


$

811.68

93.85

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Lodge at
      Timberglen

Dallas,
    TX




226,200


$

649.68

92.31

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Watermark

Dallas, TX




205,200


$

777.03

92.50

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Legacy
      Pines

Houston,
    TX




283,360


$

840.65

96.10

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Park Place
      (Houston)

Houston, TX




207,016


$

864.32

94.76

%

$

—

Ranchstone

Houston,
    TX




193,160


$

811.37

95.00

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Reserve at
      Woodwind Lakes

Houston, TX




316,192


$

831.53

92.07

%

$

14,820

5.930%

6/15/2015

Cascade at
      Fall Creek

Humble,
    TX




227,796


$

973.07

96.34

%

$

—

Chalet at
      Fall Creek

Humble, TX




260,228


$

933.31

93.28

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)

Westborough
      Crossing

Katy,
TX




197,280


$

629.94

95.62

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Kenwood
      Club

Katy, TX




318,080


$

794.85

95.63

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Lane at Towne
      Crossing

Mesquite,
      TX




277,632


$

590.22

94.01

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Highwood

Plano, TX




156,800


$

740.00

97.96

%

$

—

(4)

(4)

(4)

Los Rios
      Park

Plano,
    TX




470,112


$

797.58

95.98

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Boulder
      Ridge

Roanoke, TX

1999/2008



446,082


$

804.48

88.26

%

$

—

(2)

(2)

(2)

Copper
      Ridge

Roanoke,
    TX




254,000

1,270

$

904.43

51.00

%

$

—

Cypresswood
      Court

Spring, TX




160,576


$

684.59

95.67

%

$

—

(6)

(6)

(6)

Villages at
      Kirkwood

Stafford,
      TX




244,682


$

882.83

94.89

%

$

—

(7)

(7)

(7)


____________________


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Mid-America
is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to Mid-America’s
knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against us. Mid-America is
presently subject to routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business, some of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and
none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
financial condition, liquidity or results of operations of Mid-America.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE
OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON
EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES.

Mid-America’s common stock has been listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol “MAA” since our initial public
offering in February 1994. On February 6, 2009, the reported last sale price of
Mid-America’s common stock on the NYSE was $29.31 per share, and there were
approximately 1,728 holders of record of the common stock. Mid-America believes
we have a significantly larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock.
The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices of our
common stock and the dividends declared by Mid-America with respect to the
periods indicated.

Sales
      Prices

Dividends

Dividends

High

Low

Paid

Declared


:

First
      Quarter

$

54.700

$

38.280

$0.615

$

0.615

Second Quarter

$

57.820

$

49.760

$0.615

$

0.615

Third
      Quarter

$

60.660

$

45.000

$0.615

$

0.615

Fourth Quarter

$

49.560

$

23.630

$0.615

$

0.615

2007:

First
      Quarter

$

60.740

$

51.700

$0.605

$

0.605

Second Quarter

$

59.620

$

50.110

$0.605

$

0.605

Third
      Quarter

$

56.000

$

43.150

$0.605

$

0.605

Fourth Quarter

$

54.590

$

41.750

$0.605

$

0.615

Mid-America’s quarterly dividend rate is currently $0.615 per common
share. The Board of Directors reviews and declares the dividend rate quarterly.
Actual dividends made by Mid-America will be affected by a number of factors,
including the gross revenues received from the apartment communities, the
operating expenses of Mid-America, the interest expense incurred on borrowings
and unanticipated capital expenditures.

Mid-America
expects to make future quarterly distributions to shareholders; however, future
distributions by Mid-America will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors
and will depend on the actual funds from operations of Mid-America, our
financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements
under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and such other factors as
the Board of Directors deems relevant.


Mid-America
has established the Direct Stock Purchase and Distribution Reinvestment Plan, or
DRSPP, under which holders of common stock, preferred stock and limited
partnership interests in Mid-America Apartments, L.P. can elect to automatically
reinvest their distributions in additional shares of common stock. The plan also
allows for the optional purchase of common stock of at least $250, but not more
than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges.
Mid-America, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional
cash payments in excess of $5,000. To fulfill our obligations under the DRSPP,
Mid-America may either issue additional shares of common stock or repurchase
common stock in the open market. Mid-America may elect to sell shares under the
DRSPP at up to a 5% discount.

In 2006,
Mid-America issued a total of 1,356,015 shares through our DRSPP and offered an
average discount of 1.5% for optional cash purchases. In 2007, Mid-America
issued a total of 136,483 shares through our DRSPP and offered an average
discount of 1.5% for optional cash purchases. In 2008, Mid-America issued a
total of 421,794 shares through our DRSPP and offered an average discount of
1.5% for optional cash purchases.

The
following table provides information with respect to compensation plans under
which our equity securities are authorized for issuance as of December 31, 2008.

Number of
      Securities

Number of
      Securities

Remaining
      Available for

to be
      Issued upon

Weighted Average

Future
      Issuance under

Exercise of
      Outstanding

Exercise Price of

Equity
      Compensation Plans

Options,
      Warrants

Outstanding Options

(excluding
      securities

and
      Rights

Warrants and Rights

reflected
      in column (a))

(a) (1)

(b) (1)

(c) (2)

Equity compensation

plans approved

by
      security holders

25,782

$

25.38

447,581

Equity compensation

plans not approved

by
      security holders

N/A

N/A

N/A

Total

25,782

$

25.38

447,581

____________________

(1)

Columns (a) and (b) above do not include 67,679 shares of
      restricted stock that are subject to vesting requirements which were
      issued through Mid-America’s Fourth Amended and Restated 1994 Restricted
      Stock and Stock Option Plan, 67,786 shares of restricted stock that are
      subject to vesting requirements which were issued through Mid-America’s
      2004 Stock Plan, or 65,436 shares of common stock which have been
      purchased by employees through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. See Item
      8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements, Note 2 for more information on these
  plans.

(2)

Column (c) above includes 363,017 shares available to be issued
      under Mid-America’s 2004 Stock Plan and 84,564 shares available to be
      issued under Mid-America’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan. See Item 8.
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements, Note 2 for more information on these
  plans.

Mid-America has not granted any
stock options since 2002.


The
following graph compares the cumulative total returns of the shareholders of
Mid-America since December 31, 2003 with the S&P 500 Index and the FTSE
NAREIT Equity Index prepared by the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts, or NAREIT. The graph assumes that the base share price for
Mid-America’s common stock and each index is $100 and that all dividends are
reinvested. The performance graph is not necessarily indicative of future
investment performance.

Dec
      '03

Dec
      '04

Dec
      '05

Dec
      '06

Dec
      '07

Dec
      '08

Mid-America

$100.00

$131.05

$163.17

$201.12

$156.86

$143.66

S&P

$100.00

$110.88

$116.33

$134.70

$142.10

$  89.53

FTSE NAREIT Equity Index

$100.00

$131.58

$147.58

$199.32

$168.05

$ 
      89.91

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA.

The
following table sets forth selected financial data on a historical basis for
Mid-America. This data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto and “Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Mid-America Apartment
Communities, Inc.

Selected Financial Data

(Dollars in thousands except per share
data)

____________________


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND
ESTIMATES

The following
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are
based upon our consolidated financial statements, and the notes thereto, which
have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements
requires us to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical
experience and various other factors and circumstances. We believe that our
estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however,
actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions.

We believe that the estimates and assumptions listed below are most
important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations
because they require the greatest subjective determinations and form the basis
of accounting policies deemed to be most critical. These critical accounting
policies include revenue recognition, capitalization of expenditures and
depreciation of assets, impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and
fair value of derivative financial instruments.

Revenue recognition

We lease multifamily residential apartments under operating leases
primarily with terms of one year or less.

Rental revenues are recognized using a method
that represents a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and other
revenues are recorded when earned.

We record all gains and losses on sales of real estate in accordance with
Statement No. 66,

Accounting for Sales of Real
Estate

.

Capitalization of expenditures and depreciation of assets

We carry real estate assets at depreciated cost. Depreciation is computed
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets,
which range from 8 to 40 years for land improvements and buildings, 5 years for
furniture, fixtures, and equipment, 3 to 5 years for computers and software, and
1 year for acquired leases, all of which are subjective determinations. Repairs
and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred while significant improvements,
renovations, and replacements are capitalized. The cost to complete any deferred
repairs and maintenance at properties acquired by us in order to elevate the
condition of the property to our standards are capitalized as incurred.

Development costs, which in 2008 were limited to adding new units to
three existing properties, are capitalized in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects

and Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 34,

Capitalization of
Interest Cost

.

Impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill

We account for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of
Statement No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

,
or Statement 144, and evaluate our goodwill for impairment under Statement No.
142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,

or Statement 142. We evaluate
goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in our fiscal fourth quarter, or
sooner if a goodwill impairment indicator is identified. We periodically
evaluate long-lived assets, including investments in real estate and goodwill,
for indicators that would suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may not
be recoverable. The judgments regarding the existence of such indicators are
based on factors such as operating performance, market conditions, and legal
factors.


In
accordance with Statement 144, long-lived assets, such as real estate assets,
equipment, and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to
be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the
asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash
flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed
of are separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of
the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer
depreciated. The assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held
for sale are presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability
sections of the balance sheet.

In
accordance with Statement 142, goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and
is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate
that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent
that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. This determination is
made at the reporting unit level and consists of two steps. First, we determine
the fair value of a reporting unit and compare the fair value to its carrying
amount. In the apartment industry, the primary method used for determining fair
value is to divide annual operating cash flows by an appropriate capitalization
rate. We determine the appropriate capitalization rate by reviewing the
prevailing rates in a property’s market or submarket. Second, if the carrying
amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s
goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of
goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit in a
manner similar to a purchase price allocation, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,

Business Combinations

. The residual
fair value after this allocation is the implied fair value of the reporting unit
goodwill.

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

Mid-America utilizes certain derivative financial instruments, primarily
interest rate swaps and caps, during the normal course of business to manage, or
hedge, the interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt or as
hedges in anticipation of future debt transactions to manage well-defined
interest rate risk associated with the transaction.

In
order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedging instrument, the
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item must be highly
effective. While Mid-America’s calculation of hedge effectiveness contains some
subjective determinations, the historical correlation of the hedging instruments
and the underlying hedged item are measured by Mid-America before entering into
the hedging relationship and have been found to be highly correlated.

Mid-America measures ineffectiveness using the change in the variable cash flows
method for interest rate swaps and the hypothetical derivative method for
interest rate caps for each reporting period through the term of the hedging
instruments. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded in earnings.
The change in fair value of the interest rate swaps and the intrinsic value or
fair value of caps designated as cash flow hedges are recorded to accumulated
other comprehensive income in the statement of shareholders’ equity.

On
January 1, 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements,

or Statement 157.

Statement 157 defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. Statement 157 applies to reported balances that are required or
permitted to be measured at fair value under existing accounting pronouncements;
accordingly, the standard does not require any new fair value measurements of
reported balances.


Statement 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an
entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be
determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant
assumptions in fair value measurements, Statement 157 establishes a fair value
hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on
market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity
(observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy)
and the reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions
(unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy).

Level
1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities that Mid-America has the ability to access. Level 2 inputs
are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for
the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs may
include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as
well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other than quoted
prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves that
are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable
inputs for the asset or liability which are typically based on an entity’s own
assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances
where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from
different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value
hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its
entirety. Mid-America’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to
the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers
factors specific to the asset or liability.

The
valuation of our derivative financial instruments is determined using widely
accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis on the
expected cash flows of each derivative. The fair values of interest rate swaps
are determined using the market standard methodology of netting the discounted
future fixed cash payments and the discounted expected variable cash receipts.
The variable cash receipts are based on an expectation of future interest rates
(forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair
values of interest rate caps are determined using the market standard
methodology of discounting the future expected cash receipts that would occur if
variable interest rates rise above the strike rate of the caps. The variable
interest rates used in the calculation of projected receipts on the cap are
based on an expectation of future interest rates derived from observable market
interest rate curves and volatilities. To comply with the provisions of
Statement 157, Mid-America incorporates credit valuation adjustments to
appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective
counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. In adjusting
the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance
risk, we have considered the impact of netting and any applicable credit
enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts, and
guarantees.

Although Mid-America has determined that the majority of the inputs used to
value our derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the
credit valuation adjustments associated with our derivatives utilize Level 3
inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood
of default by ourselves and our counterparties. As of December 31, 2008,
Mid-America has assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation
adjustments on the overall valuation of our derivative positions and has
determined that the credit valuation adjustments are significant to the overall
valuation of our derivatives. As a result, Mid-America has determined that our
derivative valuations in their entirety are classified in Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2008, Mid-America had a total of $990.5
million of notional amount in derivative instruments, all of which had fair
values measured using Level 3 inputs. Realized and unrealized losses did not
materially affect our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources
during the year. Mid-America experienced an overall decrease in fair value of
our derivatives due to the fluctuations in the interest rate market throughout
the year.


OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

Mid-America experienced an increase in income from continuing operations before
non-operating items in 2008 as we continued to grow our portfolio through
acquisitions and limited development and our same store portfolio maintained an
average occupancy of 95.3% and raised average effective rents by 1.8% over 2007.
Our same store portfolio represents those communities that have been held and
have been stabilized for at least 12 months. Communities excluded from the same
store portfolio would include recent acquisitions, communities being developed
or in lease-up, communities undergoing extensive renovations, and communities
identified as discontinued operations.

Mid-America
has grown externally during the past three years by following its acquisition
strategy to invest in large and mid-sized growing markets in the Sunbelt region
of the United States. Mid-America acquired six properties in 2006, four
properties in 2007 and five properties in 2008. Mid-America also purchased two
properties through a joint venture in 2008. Offsetting some of this increased
revenue stream is five property dispositions in 2007, one of which was through a
joint venture.

Mid-America
also benefited from reduced interest expense in 2008 as our twelve month average
interest rate dropped from 5.4% in 2007 to 4.9% in 2008.

The
following is a discussion of the consolidated financial condition and results of
operations of Mid-America for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with all of the consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As of
December 31, 2008, the total number of apartment units Mid-America owned or had
an ownership interest in was 42,554 in 145 communities, compared to 40,248
apartment units in 137 communities at December 31, 2007, and 40,293 apartment
units in 138 communities at December 31, 2006. For communities owned 100% by
Mid-America, the average monthly rental per apartment unit, excluding units in
lease-up, increased to $750 at December 31, 2008 from $743 at December 31, 2007,
and $726 at December 31, 2006. For these same units, overall occupancy at
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was 93.4%, 94.7%, and 94.2%,
respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2008, TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007

Property
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, increased by approximately $22.3
million from the year ended December 31, 2008, due to (i) a $7.1 million
increase in property revenues from the five properties acquired in 2008, or the
2008 acquisitions, (ii) a $5.8 million increase in property revenues from the
four properties acquired in 2007, or the 2007 acquisitions, (iii) a $1.7 million
increase in property revenues from our development communities, and (iv) a $7.7
million increase in property revenues from the properties held throughout both
periods. The increase in property revenues from properties held throughout both
periods was generated primarily by Mid-America’s same store portfolio and was
driven by a 1.8% increase in average effective rent per unit in 2008 over 2007.


Property
operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building repairs and
maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping and other
property related costs. Property operating expenses for the year ended December
31, 2008, increased by approximately $12.9 million from the year ended December
31, 2007, due primarily to increases of property operating expenses of (i) $3.5
million from the 2008 acquisitions, (ii) $2.9 million from the 2007
acquisitions, (iii) $0.8 million from our development communities, and (iv) $5.7
million from the properties held throughout both periods. The increase in
property operating expenses from the properties held throughout both periods
consisted primarily of Mid-America’s same store portfolio and represented an
average 3.5% increase over prior year expenses and included $591,000 of expense
related to Hurricane Ike.

Depreciation
expense increased by approximately $5.4 million primarily due to the increases
of depreciation expense of (i) $2.3 million from the 2008 acquisitions, (ii)
$1.6 million from the 2007 acquisitions, (iii) $0.3 million from our development
communities, and (iv) $3.0 million from fixed asset additions at communities
held throughout both periods. These increases were partially offset by a
decrease in depreciation expense of $1.8 million from the expiration of the
amortization of fair market value of leases of communities which we previously
acquired.

Property
management expenses decreased by approximately $1.1 million from the year ended
December 31, 2007, to the year ended December 31, 2008, due to decreased
incentive compensation. General and administrative expenses increased by
approximately $1.0 million over this same period mainly as a result of increased
personnel costs.

Interest
expense decreased approximately $1.6 million in 2008 from 2007 due primarily to
the decrease in our average annual borrowing cost from 5.4% in 2007 to 4.9% in
2008. This decrease was somewhat offset by an increase in our average debt
outstanding by approximately $83.8 million from 2007 to 2008 to fund
acquisitions and our development and redevelopment programs.

For the year
ended December 31, 2007, Mid-America recorded total gains of approximately $5.4
million from the sale of a community owned through a joint venture. The sale of
this community resulted in an additional incentive fee being paid to Mid-America
of approximately $1.0 million in 2007. In 2007, Mid-America also benefited from
a $9.2 million gain resulting from the sale of four communities owned directly
by Mid-America. Mid-America had no property dispositions in 2008.

For the year
ended December 31, 2007, Mid-America recorded net casualty gains and other
settlement proceeds and gains on sale of land totaling $1.1 million. For the
year ended December 31, 2008, Mid-America recorded a loss of $0.3 million for
these same items.

Primarily as
a result of the foregoing, net income decreased by approximately $9.7 million in
2008 from 2007.

COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2007, TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006

Property
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, increased by approximately $29.2
million from the year ended December 31, 2006, due to (i) a $4.8 million
increase in property revenues from the 2007 acquisitions, (ii) an $11.5 million
increase in property revenues from the six properties acquired in 2006, or the
2006 acquisitions, (iii) a $0.8 million increase in property revenues from the
development communities, and (iv) a $12.1 million increase in property revenues
from the properties held throughout both periods. The increase in property
revenues from properties held throughout both periods was generated primarily by
Mid-America’s same store portfolio and was driven by an average 2.5% increase in
average rent per unit in 2007 over 2006.


Property
operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building repairs and
maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping and other
property related costs. Property operating expenses for the year ended December
31, 2007, increased by approximately $9.8 million from the year ended December
31, 2006, due primarily to increases of property operating expenses of (i) $2.1
million from the 2007 acquisitions, (ii) $5.0 million from the 2006
acquisitions, (iii) $0.3 million form the development communities, and (iv) $2.4
million from the properties held throughout both periods. The increase in
property operating expenses from the properties held throughout both periods
consisted primarily of Mid-America’s same store portfolio and represented an
average 2.7% increase over prior year expenses.

Depreciation
expense increased by approximately $7.2 million primarily due to the increases
of depreciation expense of (i) $1.2 million from the 2007 acquisitions, (ii)
$3.3 million from the 2006 acquisitions, (iii) $0.2 million from the development
communities, (iv) $1.8 million from fixed asset additions at the communities
held throughout both periods, and (v) $0.7 million from the amortization of fair
market value of leases of acquired communities.

Property
management expenses increased by approximately $4.8 million from the year ended
December 31, 2006, to the year ended December 31, 2007, partially due to
increased incentive compensation as a result of improved property performance
and increased franchise and excise taxes due to state tax law changes. General
and administrative expenses increased by approximately $0.9 million over this
same period also partially related to increased incentive compensation due to
improved performance.

Interest
expense increased approximately $1.3 million in 2007 from 2006 due primarily to
the approximate $42.4 million increase in the average debt outstanding from 2006
due to acquisitions and our development and redevelopment programs.

For the year
ended December 31, 2007, Mid-America recorded total gains of approximately $5.4
million from the sale of a community owned through a joint venture. The sale of
this community resulted in an additional incentive fee being paid to Mid-America
of approximately $1.0 million in 2007. In 2007, Mid-America also benefited from
a $9.2 million gain resulting from the sale of four communities owned directly
by Mid-America. Mid-America had no property dispositions in 2006.

For the year
ended December 31, 2007, Mid-America recorded net casualty gains and other
settlement proceeds and gains on sale of land totaling $1.1 million. For the
year ended December 31, 2006, Mid-America recorded $0.1 million for these same
items.

Primarily as
a result of the foregoing, net income increased by approximately $19.0 million
in 2007 over 2006.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

Funds from
operations, or FFO, represents net income (computed in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP) excluding extraordinary
items, minority interest in operating partnership income, gains on disposition
of real estate assets, plus depreciation of real estate, and adjustments for
joint ventures to reflect FFO on the same basis. This definition of FFO is in
accordance with the NAREIT definition. Disposition of real estate assets
includes sales of discontinued operations as well as proceeds received from
insurance and other settlements from property damage.


In response
to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Staff Policy Statement relating to
EITF Topic D-42 concerning the calculation of earnings per share for the
redemption of preferred stock, Mid-

America has included the amount
charged to retire preferred stock in excess of carrying values in our FFO
calculation.

Mid-America's policy is to expense the cost of interior painting, vinyl
flooring, and blinds as incurred for stabilized properties. During the
stabilization period for acquisition properties, these items are capitalized as
part of the total repositioning program of newly acquired properties, and, thus
are not deducted in calculating FFO.

FFO should
not be considered as an alternative to net income or any other GAAP measurement
of performance, as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to
cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities as a measure of
liquidity. Mid-America believes that FFO is helpful to investors in
understanding Mid-America's operating performance in that such calculation
excludes depreciation expense on real estate assets. Mid-America believes that
GAAP historical cost depreciation of real estate assets is generally not
correlated with changes in the value of those assets, whose value does not
diminish predictably over time, as historical cost depreciation implies.
Mid-America’s calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating
FFO utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such
other REITs.

The
following table is a reconciliation of FFO to net income for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 (dollars and shares in thousands):

Years ended December 31,




Net income

$

30,249

$

39,946

$

20,945

Depreciation of
      real estate assets

88,555

83,532

76,205

Net casualty (gains) loss and other settlement proceeds


(589

)

(84

)

Gains on
      dispositions within real estate joint ventures

(38

)

(5,388

)

—

Depreciation of real estate assets of discontinued
      operations


1,517

2,003

(Gains) loss on
      sales of discontinued operations


(9,164

)

—

Depreciation of real estate assets of real estate joint
      ventures




Preferred
      dividend distribution

(12,865

)

(13,688

)

(13,962

)

Minority interest in operating partnership income

1,822

3,510

1,590

Premiums and
      original issuance costs associated with

the redemption of preferred stock

—

(589

)

—

Funds from operations

$

109,749

$

99,102

$

87,197

Weighted average shares and units:

Basic

29,356

27,777

25,979

Diluted

29,459

27,943

26,204

FFO
increases for both 2008 over 2007, and 2007 over 2006 were principally the
result of improved community operations from Mid-America’s same store portfolio
and the addition of communities from the 2006 acquisitions, 2007 acquisitions
and 2008 acquisitions as previously reviewed in the net income discussion
above.


TRENDS

During the first half of 2008,
rental demand for apartments continued at robust levels in most of our markets
with the notable exception of Florida, where after several years of good growth,
markets weakened. Towards the end of the second quarter, we experienced a
reduction in our rate of revenue growth, which we think is likely to be due to
the slowdown in general economic conditions. During the third quarter and
through the end of 2008, the rate of revenue growth continued to
slow.

Job formation, which is a primary
driver of demand by apartment residents, weakened towards the end of the second
quarter and through the end of 2008. On the supply side, new apartment
construction continued to be limited, as in most markets, rents have yet to rise
sufficiently to offset the rapid run-up of costs of new construction over the
last five years and financing for new development has become difficult to
obtain. Competition from condominiums reverting back to being rental units, or
new condominiums being converted to rental, was not a major factor in most of
our markets because most of our markets and submarkets have not been primary
areas for condominium development. We have found the same to be true for rental
competition from single family homes. We have avoided committing a significant
amount of capital to markets where most of the excessive inflation in house
prices has occurred. We are seeing significant rental competition from
condominiums and single family houses in only a few submarkets.

The primary reason that our
residents leave us is to buy a house, but we have seen that reason as a percent
of total move-outs drop over the past twelve months. Analysts point out that
homeownership increased from 65% to over 69% of households over ten years ending
in 2005. This increase, representing approximately five million households, was
driven primarily by the availability of new mortgage products, many requiring no
down-payment and minimal credit ratings. With a reversion of mortgage
underwriting back to more traditional standards, it is possible that a long-term
correction will occur, and that home ownership may return to more sustainable
levels. This could be quite significant for the apartment business, and we
believe, if this occurs, it could benefit us for several years.

We believe that the signs of slower
revenue growth will be temporary, and that revenue growth should resume in 2010.
We also believe reduced availability of financing for new apartment construction
will likely limit new apartment supply, and more sustainable credit terms for
residential mortgages should work to favor rental demand at existing
multi-family properties. At the same time, we expect long term demographic
trends, including the growth of prime age groups for rentals, immigration, and
population movement to the southeast and southwest will continue to build
apartment rental demand for our markets.

While it seems possible that in 2009
we will face declining economic growth as a result of reduced liquidity in the
economy, we think that the supply of new apartments is not excessive, and that
positive absorption of apartments will return for most of our markets in 2010.
Should the economy fall into a deeper recession, the limited new supply of
apartments and the more disciplined mortgage financing for single family home
buying should lessen the impact.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES

Net cash
flow provided by operating activities increased by approximately $19.4 million
to $137.9 million for 2008, compared to $118.6 million for 2007, mainly related
to the growth of Mid-America through acquisitions and improved operating results
in 2008. Net cash flow provided by operating activities increased by
approximately $16.1 million to $118.6 million for 2007 compared to $102.5
million for 2006 mainly related to the growth of Mid-America through
acquisitions and improved operating results in 2007.


Net cash
used in investing activities was approximately $243.0 million, $108.8 million
and $241.1 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change in net cash
used in investing activities resulted mainly from the varying levels of
acquisition activity. A total of approximately $156.3 million

was
invested in 2008 to acquire properties, this compares to approximately $88.6
million in 2007, and $195.0 million in 2006. Mid-America began limited
development activities in 2006, which used net cash of approximately $10.9
million in 2006, $14.6 million in 2007 and $22.7 million in 2008. Mid-America
also expanded our renovation activities using net cash of approximately $6.1
million in 2006, $11.3 million in 2007 and $18.2 million in 2008. In 2007,
Mid-America received a total of $39.2 million from the disposition of real
estate assets, mainly related to property sales. No communities were sold in
2006 or 2008.

Net cash
provided by financing activities was $97.3 million, $1.9 million and $130.1
million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fluctuation in net cash
provided by financing activities was mainly impacted by proceeds from issuances
of common shares and units. Proceeds from issuances of common shares and units
increased in 2006 to approximately $152.0 million primarily due to Mid-America’s
raising of funds through stock issuances from our direct stock purchase plan, a
controlled equity plan and an overnight offering. During 2007, Mid-America was
not as active in raising funds through these equity plans; however, in 2008
Mid-America raised a total of $126.0 million of proceeds from issuances of
common shares and units, primarily through a controlled equity plan. Net cash
provided by financing activities in 2007 was also impacted by the redemption of
our 9¼% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, or Series F, for $11.9
million.

The weighted average interest rate
at December 31, 2008 for the $1.3 billion of debt outstanding was 4.8%, compared
to the weighted average interest rate of 5.4% on $1.3 billion of debt
outstanding at December 31, 2007. We utilize both conventional and tax exempt
debt to help finance our activities. Borrowings are made through individual
property mortgages as well as company-wide secured credit facilities. We utilize
fixed rate borrowings, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps to manage our
current and future interest rate risk. More details on our borrowings can be
found in the schedules presented later in this section.

At December 31, 2008, we had secured
credit facility relationships with Prudential Mortgage Capital which are credit
enhanced by the Federal National Mortgage Association, or FNMA, Financial
Federal which are credit enhanced by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or
Freddie Mac, and a $50 million bank facility. Together, these credit facilities
provided a total line capacity of $1.39 billion and collateralized availability
to borrow of $1.36 billion at December 31, 2008. We had total borrowings
outstanding under these credit facilities of $1.18 billion at December 31,
2008.

Approximately 68% of our outstanding
obligations at December 31, 2008 were borrowed through facilities with/or credit
enhanced by FNMA, also referred to as the FNMA Facilities. The FNMA Facilities
have a combined line limit of $1.04 billion, all of which was collateralized and
available to borrow at December 31, 2008. We had total borrowings outstanding
under the FNMA Facilities of approximately $905 million at December 31, 2008.
Various traunches of the FNMA Facilities mature from 2011 through 2018. The FNMA
Facilities provide for both fixed and variable rate borrowings. The interest
rate on the majority of the variable portion is based on the FNMA Discount
Mortgage Backed Security, or DMBS, which are credit-enhanced by FNMA and are
typically sold every 90 days by Prudential Mortgage Capital at interest rates
approximating three-month LIBOR less an average spread of 0.05% - 0.13% over the
life of the FNMA Facilities, plus a credit enhancement fee of 0.49% to 0.795%.
While, generally, the DMBS continued to trade below three-month LIBOR, the
spread between them increased during the fourth quarter of 2007 and during 2008,
ranging from 0.05% above three-month LIBOR to 1.23% below three-month LIBOR.
While we feel this recent volatility is an anomaly and believe that this spread
will return to more historic levels, we cannot forecast when or if the
uncertainty and volatility in the market may change.


Approximately 21% of our outstanding
obligations at December 31, 2008 were borrowed through facilities with/or credit
enhanced by Freddie Mac, also referred to as the Freddie Mac Facilities. The

Freddie Mac Facilities have a combined line limit
of $300 million, of which $276 million was collateralized and available to
borrow at December 31, 2008. We had total borrowings outstanding under the
Freddie Mac Facilities of approximately $276 million at December 31, 2008. The
Freddie Mac facilities mature in 2011 and 2014. The interest rate on the Freddie
Mac Facilities renews every 30 or 90 days and is based on the Freddie Mac
Reference Bill Rate on the date of renewal, which has historically approximated
LIBOR, plus a credit enhancement fee of 65 basis points to 69 basis points. The
Freddie Mac Reference Bill rate has traded consistently below LIBOR, and the
historical average spread has risen recently from the more normal 15 basis
points to 17 basis points below LIBOR to 41 basis points below LIBOR with a high
of 200 basis points below LIBOR on November 1, 2008.

Each of our secured credit
facilities is subject to various covenants and conditions on usage, and is
subject to periodic re-evaluation of collateral. If we were to fail to satisfy a
condition to borrowing, the available credit under one or more of the facilities
could not be drawn, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In the event of
a reduction in real estate values the amount of available credit could be
reduced. Moreover, if we were to fail to make a payment or violate a covenant
under a credit facility, after applicable cure periods, one or more of our
lenders could declare a default, accelerate the due date for repayment of all
amounts outstanding and/or foreclose on properties securing such facilities. Any
such event could have a material adverse effect.

The following schedule details the
line limits, collateralized availability and the outstanding balances of our
various borrowings as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Line

Amount

Amount

Limit

Collateralized

Borrowed

FNMA Credit Facilities

$

1,044,429

$

1,044,429

$

904,833

Freddie Mac
      Credit Facilities

300,000

275,929

275,929

Regions Credit Facility

50,000

43,863


Regions Term
      Loan

38,625

38,625

38,625

Other Borrowings

103,008

103,008

103,008

Total
      Debt

$

1,536,062

$

1,505,854

$

1,323,056

As of December 31, 2008, we had
entered into interest rate swaps totaling a notional amount of $908 million. To
date, these swaps have proven to be highly effective hedges. We had also entered
into interest rate cap agreements totaling a notional amount of approximately
$82 million as of December 31, 2008.


The following schedule outlines our
variable versus fixed rate debt, including the impact of interest rate swaps and
caps, outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Average

Years
      to

Principal

Contract

Effective

Balance

Maturity

Rate

Conventional - Fixed Rate or Swapped

(1)

$

1,018,484

4.1

5.5

%

Tax-free - Fixed
      Rate or Swapped

(1)

37,730

8.3

4.7

%

Conventional - Variable Rate

179,796

5.2

2.5

%

Tax-free -
      Variable Rate

4,760

19.4

3.9

%

Conventional - Variable Rate - Capped

(2)

17,936

0.9

2.8

%

Tax-free -
      Variable Rate - Capped

(2)

64,350

3.2

1.8

%

Total
      Debt Outstanding

$

1,323,056

4.5

4.8

%

____________________

(1)

Maturities on existing swapped balances are calculated using the
      life of the underlying variable debt.

(2)

When
      the capped rates of 6.0% and 6.5% are not reached, the average rate
      represents the rate on the underlying variable
debt.

We only have two scheduled
refinancings prior to 2011. One is a $39 million mortgage with Regions Bank that
matures April 1, 2009. We plan to replace the Regions debt with mortgages from
Freddie Mac which were put in place in the fourth quarter of 2008. The other is
the $50 million credit facility with a group of banks led by Regions Bank that
matures May 24, 2010.

The following schedule outlines the
contractual maturity dates of our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2008 (in
thousands):

Line Limit

Credit Facilities

Regions

Fannie Mae

Freddie Mac

Regions

Term Loan

Other

Total


$

—

$

—

$

—

$

38,625

$

—

$

38,625


—

—

50,000

—

—

50,000


80,000

100,000

—

—

—

180,000


80,000

—

—

—

—

80,000


203,193

—

—

—

—

203,193


321,236

200,000

—

—

18,984

540,220


120,000

—

—

—

53,520

173,520

Thereafter

240,000

—

—

—

30,504

270,504

Total

$

1,044,429

$

300,000

$

50,000

$

38,625

$

103,008

$

1,536,062


The following schedule outlines the
interest rate maturities of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements and
fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Swap Balances

Temporary

Total

SIFMA

Fixed Rate

Fixed Rate

Contract

LIBOR

(formerly BMA)

Balances

Balances

(1)

Balance

Rate


$

25,000

$

—

$

—

$

65,000

$

90,000

6.9

%


140,000

8,365

—

—

148,365

5.7

%


158,000

—

—

—

158,000

5.2

%


150,000

17,800

—

—

167,800

5.1

%


190,000

—

—

—

190,000

5.2

%


144,000

—

18,984

—

162,984

5.7

%


75,000

—

38,321

—

113,321

5.6

%

Thereafter

—

—

25,744

—

25,744

5.6

%

Total

$

882,000

$

26,165

$

83,049

$

65,000

$

1,056,214

5.5

%

____________________

(1)

Represents a $65 million fixed rate FNMA borrowing that converts to
      a variable rate on December 1, 2009.

During 2008,
Mid-America sold 1,955,300 shares of common stock through our continuous equity
offering program generating net proceeds of approximately $103.6 million. In
2007 and 2006, Mid-America sold 323,700 shares and 194,000 shares generating net
proceeds of approximately $18.8 million and $11.5 million, respectively.

During 2008,
Mid-America offered an average 1.5% discount through our DRSPP and issued
approximately 403,000 shares of common stock through the direct stock purchase
feature of this plan, generating approximately $20 million in proceeds. During
2007 and 2006, Mid-America also offered an average 1.5% discount through our
DRSPP and issued approximately 120,000 and 1,340,000 shares of common stock
through the direct stock purchase feature of this plan, generating approximately
$6 million and $77 million in proceeds, respectively.

On October
16, 2007, Mid-America redeemed all of the issued and outstanding shares of
Series F for the total redemption price of $11.9 million.

In May 2006,
Mid-America sold 1,150,000 shares of common stock through a public offering
generating net proceeds of approximately $59.5 million.

We believe that we have adequate
resources to fund our current operations, annual refurbishment of our
properties, and incremental investment in new apartment properties. We rely on
the efficient operation of the financial markets to finance debt maturities, and
on FNMA and Freddie Mac, or the Agencies, who have now been placed into
conservatorship by the U.S. Government, and whose securities are now implicitly
Government-guaranteed. The Agencies provide credit enhancement for approximately
$1.2 billion of our debt as of December 31, 2008. The Federal Housing Finance
Agency, or FHFA, is the appointed conservator of the Agencies, and in a press
release dated September 12, 2008, stated that “business will continue as usual
at the Enterprises during the conservatorship – this applies to both their
single family and multifamily businesses. FHFA recognizes the importance of all
aspects of the Enterprises’ multifamily businesses … for a healthy secondary
market and housing affordability. In particular, support for multifamily housing
finance is central to the Enterprises’ public purpose… As conservator, FHFA
expects each Enterprise to continue underwriting and financing sound multifamily
business.”

The interest rate markets for FNMA
DMBS and Freddie Mac Reference Bills, which in our experience are highly liquid
and highly correlated with three-month LIBOR interest rates, are also an
important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap effectiveness.
Prudential Mortgage Capital, a DUS lender for Fannie Mae, markets 90-day Fannie
Mae Discount Mortgage Backed Securities monthly, and is obligated to advance
funds to us at DMBS rates plus a credit spread under the terms of the credit
agreements between Prudential and us. Financial Federal, a Freddie Mac Program
Plus Lender and Servicer, is obligated to advance funds under the terms of
credit agreements between Financial Federal and us.


For the year ended December 31,
2008, our net cash provided by operating activities was in excess of covering
funding improvements to existing real estate assets, distributions to
unitholders, and dividends paid on common and preferred shares by approximately
$12.7 million, as compared to $4.1 million for the same period in 2007. This
compares to a shortfall for the twelve months of 2005 of approximately $4.5
million. While we had sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current
rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant deterioration
in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay
distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be
required to reduce the distribution rate.

The following table reflects our
total contractual cash obligations which consist of our long-term debt and
operating leases as of December 31, 2008, (dollars in thousands):

Contractual

Obligations

(1)






Thereafter

Total

Long-Term Debt

(2)

$

40,357

$

2,488

$

178,333

$

82,036

$

161,039

$

858,803

$

1,323,056

Fixed Rate
      or

Swapped Interest

(3)

51,186

43,123

35,404

26,403

18,911

29,076

204,103

Operating Lease





—

—


Total

$

91,559

$

45,627

$

213,753

$

108,447

$

179,950

$

887,879

$

1,527,215

____________________

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

At December 31, 2008, and 2007, we
did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial
partnerships established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet
arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Our two joint
ventures with Crow Holdings (one terminated in 2005 and one terminated in 2007)
were established to acquire approximately $200 million of multifamily properties
and to enhance our return on investment through the generation of fee income.
Mid-America Multifamily Fund I, LLC, was established to acquire $500 million of
apartment communities with redevelopment upside offering value creation
opportunity through capital improvements, operating enhancements and
restructuring in-place financing. As of December 31, 2008, Mid-America
Multifamily Fund I, LLC owned two properties but did not expect to acquire any
additional communities. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities
involving non-exchange traded contracts. As such, we are not materially exposed
to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk that could arise if we had
engaged in such relationships. We do not have any relationships or transactions
with persons or entities that derive benefits from their non-independent
relationships with us or our related parties other than those disclosed in Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 14.

Our investments in our real estate
joint ventures are unconsolidated and are recorded using the equity method as we
do not have a controlling interest.


INSURANCE

Mid-America renegotiated our
insurance programs effective July 1, 2008. We believe that the property and
casualty insurance program in place provides appropriate insurance coverage for
financial protection against insurable risks such that any insurable loss
experienced would not have a significant impact on our liquidity, financial
position or results of operation. We expect the renegotiated programs to result
in a reduction in annual policy premiums of approximately $1.3 million when
compared to the higher rates experienced with the prior policy.

INFLATION

Substantially all of the resident leases at the apartment communities
allow, at the time of renewal, for adjustments in the rent payable there under,
and thus may enable Mid-America to seek rent increases. Almost all leases are
for one year or less. The short-term nature of these leases generally serves to
reduce the risk to Mid-America of the adverse effects of inflation.

IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS

In September 2006, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157

Fair Value Measurements

,

or
Statement 157. Statement 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
Statement 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007
and interim periods within those fiscal years. FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-2

Effective Date of FASB Statement

, or FSP 157-2, delays the effective date
of Statement 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities except for
items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements
on a recurring basis. For these items, the effective date will be for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2008. We adopted Statement 157 effective
January 1, 2008. We do not believe the adoption has had or will have a material
impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as
a whole.

On December 4, 2007, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (Revised
2007),

Business Combinations

, or Statement 141R. Statement 141R will significantly change
the accounting for business combinations. Under Statement 141R, an acquiring
entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with limited
exceptions. Statement 141R will change the accounting treatment for certain
specific items, including acquisition costs which will generally be expensed as
incurred. This will have a material impact on the way we account for property
acquisitions and therefore will have a material impact on our financial
statements. Statement 141R applies prospectively to business combinations for
which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual
reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008.

On December 4, 2007, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - An
Amendment of ARB No. 51

, or Statement 160.
Statement 160 establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary. Specifically, this statement requires the recognition of a
noncontrolling interest (minority interest) as equity in the consolidated
financial statements and separate from the parent's equity. The amount of net
income attributable to the noncontrolling interest will be included in
consolidated net income on the face of the income statement. Statement 160
clarifies that changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do
not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the parent retains its
controlling financial interest. This will impact our financial statement
presentation by requiring the minority interests in the operating partnership to
be presented as a non-controlling interest as a component of equity. Statement
160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal
years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008.


On March 19, 2008, the FASB issued
FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities - an Amendment of FASB Statement 133,

or Statement 161

.

Statement 161 enhances required disclosures regarding
derivatives and hedging activities, including enhanced disclosures regarding how
an entity uses derivative instruments and how derivative instruments and related
hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

, and how derivative instruments
and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial
performance, and cash flows.

Statement 161 is
effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15,
2008.

In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP
No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether
Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating
Securities

to clarify that unvested
share-based awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends are
participating securities and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings
allocation in computing earnings per share, or EPS, under the two-class method
described in SFAS No. 128,

Earnings Per
Share

. This FSP is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
interim periods within those years. All prior period EPS data presented are to
be adjusted retrospectively (including interim financial statements, summaries
of earnings, and selected financial data) to conform with the provisions of this
FSP. Management does not believe that the adoption of this FSP will have a
material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations
taken as a whole.

In September 2008, the FASB ratified
EITF Issue No. 08-5,

Issuer’s Accounting for
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value with a Third-Party Credit
Enhancement

, or EITF 08-5. EITF 08-5 requires
that the measurement of liabilities with inseparable, third-party credit
enhancements carried at or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis exclude
the effect of the credit enhancement. EITF 08-5 is effective on a prospective
basis in the first reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and
the effect of initially applying EITF 08-5 shall be included in the fair value
in the period of adoption. Management is evaluating the impact that EITF 08-5
will have on our financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Mid-America's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest
rates obtainable on our secured and unsecured borrowings. At December 31, 2008,
51% of Mid-America's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. Mid-America's
interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate
fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing
costs. To achieve this objective, Mid-America manages its exposure to
fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed
rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the
interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings.
Mid-America uses our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby
limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. Mid-America does
not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
Approximately 86% of Mid-America's outstanding debt was subject to fixed or
capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at December 31,
2008. Mid-America regularly reviews interest rate exposure on outstanding
borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate
fluctuations.

The table
below provides information about Mid-America's financial instruments that are
sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents
principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected
maturity dates. For Mid-America’s interest rate swaps and caps, the table
presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they
expire. Weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the
reporting date (dollars in 000's).


Total

Fair






Thereafter

Total

Value

Long-term Debt

Fixed Rate

(1)

$

65,000

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

83,049

$

148,049

$

141,817

Average interest rate

7.71

%

0.00

%

0.00

%

0.00

%

0.00

%

5.77

%

6.62

%

Variable Rate

(1)

$

38,624

$


$

111,404

$

80,000

$

158,629

$

785,689

$

1,175,007

$

1,078,166

Average interest rate

3.20

%

1.96

%

1.79

%

3.60

%

3.03

%

2.30

%

2.47

%

Interest Rate Swaps

Variable to Fixed

$

25,000

$

148,365

$

158,000

$

167,800

$

190,000

$

219,000

$

908,165

$

(76,961

)

Average Pay Rate

3.98

%

5.07

%

4.61

%

4.41

%

4.58

%

4.77

%

4.66

%

Interest Rate
      Cap

Variable to Fixed

$

11,720

$

5,095

$

33,731

$

23,795

$

7,945

$

—

$

82,286

$


Average Pay Rate

6.00

%

6.00

%

6.09

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

0.00

%

6.04

%

____________________

(1)

Excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap
      agreements.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The Reports of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated Financial

Statements and Selected Quarterly Financial Information are
set forth on pages F-1 to F-40 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Management’s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

The
management of Mid-America, with the participation of our principal executive and
financial officers, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures in ensuring that the information required to be disclosed in our
filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, including ensuring that such information
is accumulated and communicated to Mid-America management as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on such evaluation,
our principal executive and financial officers have concluded that such
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008, (the
end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K).

Management’s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting

Management’s
report on our internal control over financial reporting is presented on page F-1
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The reports of Ernst & Young LLP
relating to the consolidated financial statements, notes to the consolidated
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting are presented on pages F-2 to F-3 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.


Changes in Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

As of the
year ended December 31, 2008, there were no significant changes in Mid-America’s
internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or that are
reasonably likely to materially affect, Mid-America’s internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9A(T). CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Not applicable.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

The
information contained in Mid-America’s 2008 Proxy Statement in the sections
entitled “Information About The Board of Directors and Its Committees”,
“Proposal 1 - Election of Directors”, “Executive Officers” and “Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” is incorporated herein by reference
in response to this item.

Our Board of
Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all
officers, directors and employees, which can be found on Mid-America’s website
at http://www.maac.net, on the Investor Relations page under Governance
Documents. Mid-America will provide a copy of this document to any person,
without charge, upon request, by writing to the Investor Relations Department at
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc., 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38138.
We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K
regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our website at the address and
the locations specified above.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The
information contained in Mid-America’s 2008 Proxy Statement in the section
entitled “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation” and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The
information contained in Mid-America’s 2008 Proxy Statement in the sections
entitled “Security Ownership of Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this
item.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

The
information contained in Mid-America’s 2008 Proxy Statement in the sections
entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Information About
The Board of Directors and Its Committees” is incorporated herein by reference
in response to this item.


ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The
information contained in Mid-America’s 2008 Proxy Statement in the section
entitled “Proposal 2 - Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES.

(a)

The following
      documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
    10-K:

1.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting

F
      – 1

Reports of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F –

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008, and

F
      – 4

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations for the years ended

December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006

F – 5

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years
      ended

December 31, 2008, 2007, and

F
      – 6

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended

December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006

F – 7

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years
      ended

December 31, 2008, 2007, and

F
      – 8

2.

Financial Statement Schedule required to be filed by Item 8 and
      Paragraph (b) of

this Item 15:

Schedule III -
      Real Estate Investments and Accumulated Depreciation as of

December 31, 2008

F – 37

3.

The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K, except as
      otherwise noted,

have been filed with previous reports by the registrant and are
      herein incorporated

by reference.







______________________________

†      Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b)

Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c)

Financial Statement
Schedule:

See
Item 15(a)(2) above.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
      INC.

Date: February
      24, 2009

/s/ H. Eric
      Bolton, Jr.

H. Eric Bolton,
      Jr.

Chairman of the
      Board of Directors,

President and
      Chief Executive Officer

(Principal
      Executive Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity and on the
dates indicated.


Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of
Mid-America is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(f)
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of Mid-America’s consolidated financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of Mid-America; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of Mid-America are being made only in accordance with
appropriate authorizations of management and directors of Mid-America; and (iii)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Mid-America’s assets that could
have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management conducted an assessment of Mid-America’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 using the framework specified in

Internal Control - Integrated
Framework

, published by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on such assessment,
management has concluded that Mid-America’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

The effectiveness of Mid-America’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is presented in this Annual Report.

F-1

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of

Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Mid-America Apartment

Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These consolidated financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Mid-America Apartment
Communities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 24, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst &
      Young LLP

Memphis,
      Tennessee

February 24,

F-2

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of

Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

We have audited Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance
sheets of Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2008, of Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. and our report dated February
24, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst &
      Young LLP

Memphis,
      Tennessee

February 24,

F-3

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31, 2008, and

(Dollars in thousands, except per
share data)

December 31, 2008

December 31, 2007

Assets:

Real estate
      assets:

Land

$

240,426

$

214,743

Buildings and improvements

2,198,063

2,044,380

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

65,540

55,602

Capital improvements in progress

25,268

12,886

2,529,297

2,327,611

Less accumulated depreciation

(694,054

)

(616,364

)

1,835,243

1,711,247

Land held for future development

1,306

2,360

Commercial properties, net

7,958

6,778

Investments in real estate joint ventures

6,824


Real estate assets, net

1,851,331

1,720,553

Cash and cash
      equivalents

9,426

17,192

Restricted cash


3,724

Deferred
      financing costs, net

15,681

15,219

Other assets

16,840

23,028

Goodwill

4,106

4,106

Assets held for sale

24,157

—

Total assets

$

1,921,955

$

1,783,822

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:

Liabilities:

Notes payable

$

1,323,056

$

1,264,620

Accounts payable

1,234

1,099

Fair
      market value of interest rate swaps

76,961

16,039

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

66,982

61,213

Security deposits

8,705

8,453

Liabilities associated with assets held for
      sale


—

Total liabilities

1,477,533

1,351,424

Minority
      interest

30,471

28,868

Redeemable stock

1,805

2,574

Shareholders'
      equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share, 20,000,000 shares
      authorized,

$155,000 or $25 per share liquidation
      preference;

8.30% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
      6,200,000

shares
      authorized, 6,200,000 shares issued and outstanding



Common stock, $0.01 par value per share, 50,000,000
      shares authorized;

28,224,708 and 25,718,880 shares issued and outstanding
      at

December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007,
      respectively

(1)



Additional paid-in capital

954,127

832,511

Accumulated distributions in excess of net
      income

(464,617

)

(414,966

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

(77,708

)

(16,908

)

Total shareholders' equity

412,146

400,956

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

1,921,955

$

1,783,822

____________________

(1)

Number of shares issued and outstanding represent total shares of
      common stock regardless of classification on the consolidated balance
      sheet. The number of shares classified as redeemable stock on the
      consolidated balance sheet for December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007,
      are 48,579 and 60,212, respectively.

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-4

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.

Statements of Operations

Years ended December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006

(Dollars in thousands,
except per share data)

____________________

(1)

Beginning in 2006, at their regularly scheduled meetings, the Board
      of Directors began routinely declaring dividends for payment in the
      following quarter. This resulted in dividends declared during 2006 being
      different from dividends paid in 2006. Mid-America paid dividends of
      $2.46, $2.42 and $2.38 in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
  respectively.

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-5

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

Years Ended December
31, 2008, 2007, and 2006

(Dollars and
Shares in Thousands)

Accumulated

Accumulated

Additional

Distributions

Other

Preferred Stock

Common Stock

Paid-In

in
      Excess of

Comprehensive

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Capital

Other

Net Income

Income (Loss)

Total

BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2005

6,675


21,995


670,319

(2,422

)

(315,366

)

7,128

359,946

Comprehensive
      income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

20,945

—

20,945

Other comprehensive income -

derivative instruments (cash flow hedges)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,769

3,769

Comprehensive income

24,714

Issuance and
      registration of common shares

—

—

2,731


147,770

—

—

—

147,799

Shares repurchased and retired

(1

)

—

(39

)

(39

)

Exercise of
      stock options

—

—



4,631

—

—

—

4,633

Stock issued to employee stock ownership plan

—

—


—


—

—

—


Restricted
      shares issued to officers and directors (Note 2, Note 12)

—

—


—

—

—

—

—

—

Adjustment of Unearned Compensation

—

—

—

—

(2,213

)

2,422

—

—


Amortization of
      LESOP provision employee advances (Note 12)

—

—

—

—


—

—

—


Shares issued in exchange for units

—

—


—


—

—

—


Shares issued in
      exchange from redeemable stock

—

—

—

—

Adjust redeemable stock to fair market value

—

—

—

—

—

—

(469

)

—

(469

)

Adjustment for
      Minority Interest Ownership in

operating partnership

—

—

—

—

(9,006

)

—

—

—

(9,006

)

Amortization of unearned compensation

—

—

—

—

1,045

—

—

—

1,045

Dividends on
      common stock ($2.99 per share)

(1)

—

—

—

—

—

(70,721

)

—

(70,721

)

Dividends on preferred stock

—

—

—

—

—

(13,962

)

—

(13,962

)

BALANCE
      DECEMBER 31, 2006

6,675


25,033


814,006


(379,573

)

10,897

445,648

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

39,946

—

39,946

Other comprehensive
      income -

derivative instruments (cash flow hedges)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(27,805

)

(27,805

)

Comprehensive income

12,141

Issuance and registration of common shares

—

—



25,381

—

—

—

25,386

Shares
      repurchased and retired

(2

)

—

(123

)

(123

)

E

xerc

i

se o

f

s

t

oc

k

op

ti

ons

—

—


—


,


—

—

—


,


Stock issued to
      employee stock ownership plan

—

—


—


—

—

—


Shares issued in exchange for units

—

—




—

—

—


Shares issued in
      exchange from redeemable stock

—

—

—

—

Adjust redeemable stock to fair market value

—

—

—

—

—

—


—


Adjustment for
      Minority Interest Ownership in

operating partnership

—

—

—

—


—

—

—


Amortization of unearned compensation

—

—

—

—


—

—

—


Dividends on
      common stock ($2.43 per share)

—

—

—

—

—

(61,892

)

—

(61,892

)

Redemption of preferred stock

(475

)

(5

)

(11,276

)

(589

)

(11,870

)

Dividends on
      preferred stock

—

—

—

—

—

(13,688

)

—

(13,688

)

BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2007

6,200

$


25,655

$


$

832,511

$

—

$

(414,966

)

$

(16,908

)

$

400,956

Comprehensive
      income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

30,249

—

30,249

Other comprehensive income -

derivative instruments (cash flow hedges)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(60,800

)

(60,800

)

Comprehensive
      income

(30,551

)

Issuance and
      registration of common shares

—

—

2,402


124,111

—

—

—

124,135

Shares repurchased and retired

(14

)

—

(679

)

(679

)

Exercise of
      stock options

—

—



1,862

—

—

—

1,863

Stock issued to employee stock ownership plan

—

—


—


—

—

—


Shares issued in
      exchange for units

—

—


—


—

—

—


Shares issued in exchange from redeemable stock


—



Redeemable stock
      fair market value and Issuances

—

—

—

—

—


—


Adjustment for Minority Interest Ownership in

operating
      partnership

—

—

—

—

(6,317

)

—

—

—

(6,317

)

Amortization of
      unearned compensation

—

—

—

—


—

—

—


Dividends on common stock ($2.43 per share)

—

—

—

—

—

(67,347

)

—

(67,347

)

Dividends on
      preferred stock

—

—

—

—

—

(12,865

)

—

(12,865

)

BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2008

6,200

$


28,176

$


$

954,127

$

—

$

(464,617

)

$

(77,708

)

$

412,146

____________________

(1)

In the first quarter of 2006, the
      Board of Directors began declaring the quarterly common dividend at their
      regularly scheduled meeting rather than in the month the dividend is paid
      This resulted in two dividend payments being declared in the first quarter
      of 2006, even though only one dividend payment was
  paid.

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statement.

F-6

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES,
INC.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Years Ended December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006

(Dollars in
thousands)




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

30,249

$

39,946

$

20,945

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
      operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of deferred financing
      costs

93,181

88,713

81,584

Stock compensation expense

1,027


1,386

Stock issued to employee stock ownership
      plan




Redeemable stock issued




Amortization of debt premium

(1,410

)

(2,037

)

(1,916

)

Loss from investments in real estate joint
      ventures




Minority interest in operating partnership income

1,822

3,510

1,590

Loss on debt extinguishment




Derivative interest expense (income)


(397

)

(113

)

Loss (gain) on sale of non-depreciable
      assets


(534

)

(50

)

Loss (gain) on sale of discontinued
      operations


(9,164

)

—

Gains on disposition within real estate joint
      ventures

(38

)

(5,388

)

—

Incentive fees from real estate joint
      ventures

—

(1,019

)

—

Net casualty loss (gains) and other settlement
      proceeds


(589

)

(84

)

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Restricted cash

3,249


1,389

Other assets

5,649

2,559

(6,331

)

Accounts payable


(1,674

)

(505

)

Accrued expenses and other


1,279

1,433

Security deposits



1,328

Net cash provided by operating activities

137,929

118,577

102,464

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of real estate and other assets

(156,305

)

(88,601

)

(194,970

)

Improvements to existing real estate assets

(40,248

)

(33,261

)

(31,565

)

Renovations to existing real estate assets

(18,192

)

(11,323

)

(6,077

)

Development

(22,699

)

(14,555

)

(10,919

)

Distributions from real estate joint
      ventures


9,855


Contributions to real estate joint ventures

(7,567

)

(243

)

—

Proceeds from disposition of real estate
      assets

1,967

29,336

2,064

Net cash used in investing activities

(243,043

)

(108,792

)

(241,117

)

Cash flows
      from financing activities:

Net change in credit lines

106,058

83,199

58,686

Proceeds from notes payable

38,700

—

27,842

Principal payments on notes payable

(84,912

)

(12,891

)

(29,862

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(2,835

)

(1,650

)

(3,050

)

Repurchase of common stock

(679

)

(123

)

(39

)

Proceeds from issuances of common shares and
      units

126,003

26,454

151,956

Distributions to unitholders

(6,313

)

(6,221

)

(5,897

)

Dividends paid on common shares

(65,809

)

(61,257

)

(55,540

)

Dividends paid on preferred shares

(12,865

)

(13,779

)

(13,962

)

Redemption of preferred stock

—

(11,870

)

—

Net cash provided by financing activities

97,348

1,862

130,134

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash
      equivalents

(7,766

)

11,647

(8,519

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

17,192

5,545

14,064

Cash and cash
      equivalents, end of year

$

9,426

$

17,192

$

5,545

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

Interest paid

$

63,722

$

67,345

$

66,228

Supplemental disclosure of noncash investing and financing
      activities:

Conversion of units to common
      shares

$


$


$


Interest
      capitalized

$


$


$


Marked-to-market adjustment on
      derivative instruments

$

(60,707

)

$

(27,805

)

$

3,769

Fair value adjustment
      on debt assumed

$

—

$

—

$

1,553

Reclass of redeemable stock from
      equity to liabilities

$


$


$

—

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-7

Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Years ended December 31,
2008, 2007, and 2006

1. Organization and Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies

Organization and Formation of
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. (“Mid-America”) is a self-administrated
and self-managed real estate investment trust which owns, acquires and operates
multifamily apartment communities mainly in the Sunbelt region of the United
States. Mid-America owned and operated 143 apartment communities principally
through its majority owned subsidiary, Mid-America Apartments, L.P. (the
“Operating Partnership”), as of December 31, 2008. Mid-America also owned a
33.33% interest in a real estate joint venture, Mid-America Multifamily Fund I,
LLC, which owned two apartment communities at December 31, 2008.

Basis of Presentation and Principles of
Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts of
Mid-America, the Operating Partnership, and all other entities which are
variable interest entities (“VIEs”) as defined by FIN 46(R) in which Mid-America
is the primary beneficiary, or any entities in which Mid-America owns a
controlling financial interest. In determining whether Mid-America has a
controlling financial interest, the following factors are considered, among
others: ownership of voting interests, protective rights of investors, and
participatory rights of investors. Mid-America owns 51% to 100% of all
consolidated subsidiaries. Mid-America had no interests in VIEs during any of
the periods presented.

Mid-America uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in entities
for which Mid-America exercises significant influence, but does not have the
ability to exercise control.

All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

Minority Interest

Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated financial statements relates
to the ownership interest in the Operating Partnership by the holders of Class A
Common Units of the Operating Partnership (“Operating Partnership Units”).
Mid-America is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership. Net income
is allocated to the minority interest based on their respective ownership
percentage of the Operating Partnership. Issuance of additional common shares or
Operating Partnership Units changes the ownership of both the minority interest
and Mid-America. Such transactions and the related proceeds are treated as
capital transactions and result in an allocation between shareholders’ equity
and minority interest to account for the change in the respective percentage
ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating Partnership.

Mid-America’s Board of Directors established economic rights in respect to each
Operating Partnership Unit that were equivalent to the economic rights in
respect to each share of common stock. The holder of each unit may redeem their
units in exchange for one share of common stock or cash, at the option of
Mid-America. At December 31, 2008, a total of 2,403,515 units were outstanding
and redeemable to Mid-America by the holders of the units for 2,403,515 shares
of common stock or approximately $89,315,000, based on the closing price of
Mid-America’s common stock on December 31, 2008 of $37.16 per share, at
Mid-America’s option. At December 31, 2007, a total of 2,423,819 units were
outstanding and redeemable to Mid-America by the holders of the units for
2,423,819 shares of common stock or approximately $103,618,000, based on the
closing price of Mid-America’s common stock on December 31, 2007 of $42.75 per
share, at Mid-America’s option.

F-8

The
Operating Partnership has followed the policy of paying the same per unit
distribution in respect to the units as the per share distribution in respect to
the common stock. Operating Partnership net income for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
allocated approximately 8.7%, 9.4%, and 10.1%, respectively, to holders of
Operating Partnership Units and 91.3%, 90.6%, and 89.9%, respectively, to
Mid-America.

Use of Estimates

Management of Mid-America has made a number of estimates and assumptions
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses to prepare these financial statements and notes in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Mid-America leases multifamily residential apartments under operating leases
primarily with terms of one year or less. Rental revenues are recognized using a
method that represents a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and
other revenues are recorded when earned.

Mid-America records all gains and losses on real estate in accordance with
Statement No. 66

Accounting for Sales of Real
Estate

.

Rental Costs

Costs
associated with rental activities are expensed as incurred. Certain costs
associated with the lease-up of development projects, including cost of model
units, their furnishings, signs, and “grand openings” are capitalized and
amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. All other costs relating
to renting development projects are expensed as incurred.

Earnings Per Share

The
computation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted earnings per share is
based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus the
shares resulting from the assumed exercise of all dilutive outstanding options
using the treasury stock method. For periods where Mid-America reports a net
loss available for common shareholders, the effect of dilutive shares is
excluded from earnings per share calculations because including such shares
would be anti-dilutive.

A
reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted
earnings per share computations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006 is presented on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Mid-America considers cash, investments in money market accounts and
certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders for property taxes,
insurance, debt service and replacement reserves.

F-9

Real Estate Assets and Depreciation

Real
estate assets are carried at depreciated cost. Repairs and maintenance costs are
expensed as incurred while significant improvements, renovations, and recurring
capital replacements are capitalized.

Recurring
capital replacements typically include scheduled carpet replacement, new roofs,
HVAC units, plumbing, concrete, masonry and other paving, pools and various
exterior building improvements. These expenditures extend the useful life of the
property and increase the property’s fair market value. The cost of interior
painting, vinyl flooring and blinds are expensed as incurred.

In
conjunction with acquisitions of properties, Mid-America’s policy is to provide
in its acquisition budgets adequate funds to complete any deferred capital
improvement items to bring the properties to the required standard, including
the cost of replacement appliances, carpet, interior painting, vinyl flooring
and blinds. These costs are capitalized.

Development projects and the related carrying costs, including interest,
property taxes, insurance and allocated development overhead during the
construction period, are capitalized and reported in the accompanying balance
sheets as “construction in progress” during the construction period in
accordance with Statement No. 67,

Accounting
for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects.

Upon completion and certification for
occupancy of individual units within a development, amounts representing the
completed unit's portion of total estimated development costs for the project
are transferred to land, buildings, and furniture, fixtures and equipment as
real estate held for investment. Capitalization of interest, property taxes,
insurance and allocated development overhead costs cease upon the transfer, and
the assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives in accordance with
Statement No. 34,

Capitalization of Interest
Costs

. Total interest capitalized during
2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $826,000, $795,000, and $297,000,
respectively.

Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which range from 8 to 40 years for land improvements
and buildings and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment and 3 to 5 years
for computers and software.

In
accordance with Statement No. 141,

Business
Combinations

, the fair value of the real
estate acquired is allocated to the acquired tangible assets, consisting of
land, building, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and identified intangible
assets and liabilities, consisting of above and below market leases, resident
relationship values and the value of in-place leases.

The
fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property (land, building,
furniture, fixtures and equipment) is determined by valuing the property as if
it were vacant. The “as-if-vacant” value is then allocated to land, building,
furniture, fixtures and equipment based on management’s determination of the
relative fair values of these assets. Management determines the as-if-vacant
fair value of a property using methods similar to those used by independent
appraisers. Factors considered by management in performing these analyses
include an estimate of carrying costs during the period of time that would be
required in the current market conditions to lease-up the property to determine
the fair value of the in-place leases and resident relationships. Management
includes real estate taxes, insurance, operating expenses and lost rentals as
well as the costs required to execute similar leases in the estimated carrying
costs.

In
allocating the fair value of identified intangible assets and liabilities of an
acquired property, the in-place leases are compared to current market
conditions. Based on these evaluations, management believes that the leases
acquired on each of its property acquisitions were at market rates since the
lease terms generally do not extend beyond one year.

F-10

The
fair value of the in-place leases and resident relationships is then amortized
over the remaining term of the resident leases. The amount of these resident
lease intangibles included in gross real estate assets totaled $23.3 million,
$20.7 million, and $18.6 million as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively, and the amortization recorded as depreciation expense was $2.8
million, $4.6 million, and $3.9 million for the years ending December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively.

Goodwill and Intangible
Assets

Mid-America accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of
Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets (“Statement 144”) and evaluates its goodwill for impairment under
Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“Statement 142”).
Mid-America evaluates its goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in
Mid-America’s fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if a goodwill impairment
indicator is identified. Mid-America periodically evaluates its long-lived
assets, including its investments in real estate and goodwill, for indicators
that would suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may not be
recoverable. The judgments regarding the existence of such indicators are based
on factors such as operating performance, market conditions, and legal
factors.

In
accordance with Statement 144, long-lived assets, such as real estate assets,
and equipment, and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to
be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the
asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash
flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed
of are separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of
the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer
depreciated. The assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held
for sale are presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability
sections of the balance sheet.

Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and is tested for impairment more
frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be
impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying
amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. This determination is made at the
reporting unit level and consists of two steps. First, Mid-America determines
the fair value of a reporting unit and compares it to its carrying amount. In
the apartment industry, the primary method used for determining fair value is to
divide annual operating cash flows by an appropriate capitalization rate.
Mid-America determines the appropriate capitalization rate by reviewing the
prevailing rates in a property’s market or submarket. Second, if the carrying
amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s
goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of
goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit in a
manner similar to a purchase price allocation, in accordance with Statement No.
141,

Business Combinations

. The residual fair value after this allocation is the implied
fair value of the reporting unit goodwill.

Land Held for Future Development

Real
estate held for future development are sites intended for future multifamily
developments and are carried at the lower of cost or fair value in accordance
with Statement No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

.

F-11

Investment In and Advances to Real
Estate Joint Ventures

Mid-America’s investments in its unconsolidated real estate joint ventures are
recorded on the equity method as Mid-America is able to exert significant
influence, but does not have a controlling interest in the joint
venture.

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt using
a method which approximates the interest method.

Other Assets

Other
assets consist of deferred rental concessions which are recognized on a straight
line basis over the life of the leases, receivables and deposits from residents,
and other prepaid expenses including prepaid insurance and prepaid
interest.

Accrued Expenses and Other
Liabilities

Accrued expenses consist of accrued real estate taxes, accrued interest payable,
other accrued expenses payable, unearned income and the adjustment for the fair
market value of Mid-America’s derivative financial instruments.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In
September 2006, the FASB issued Statement 157. Statement 157 defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements. Statement 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. FASB
Staff Position No. FAS 157-2

Effective Date of
FASB Statement 157

, or FSP 157-2, delays the
effective date of Statement 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
liabilities except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in
the financial statements on a recurring basis. For these items, the effective
date will be for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We adopted

Statement 157 effective January 1, 2008.
Management does not believe the adoption has had or will have a material impact
on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations taken as a
whole.

On
December 4, 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 (Revised 2007),

Business
Combinations

, or Statement 141R. Statement
141R will significantly change the accounting for business combinations. Under
Statement 141R, an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair
value with limited exceptions. Statement 141R will change the accounting
treatment for certain specific items, including acquisition costs which will
generally be expensed as incurred. This will have a material impact on the way
we account for property acquisitions and therefore will have a material impact
on our financial statements. Statement 141R applies prospectively to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the
first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15,
2008.

On
December 4, 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements - An Amendment of ARB No. 51

, or Statement 160. Statement 160 establishes new accounting
and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for
the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Specifically, this statement requires the
recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority interest) as equity in the
consolidated financial statements and separate from the parent's equity. The
amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest will be
included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement.
Statement 160 clarifies that changes in a parent's ownership interest in a
subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the
parent retains its controlling financial interest. This will impact our
financial statement presentation by requiring the minority interests in the
operating partnership to be presented as a non-controlling interest as a
component of equity. Statement 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15,
2008.

F-12

On
March 19, 2008, the FASB issued FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities - an Amendment of FASB Statement 133,

or Statement 161

.

Statement 161 enhances required
disclosures regarding derivatives and hedging activities, including enhanced
disclosures regarding how an entity uses derivative instruments and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB
Statement No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

, and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial
position, financial performance, and cash flows. Statement 161 is effective for
fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008.

In
June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities

to
clarify that unvested share-based awards containing nonforfeitable rights to
dividends are participating securities and, therefore, need to be included in
the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share, or EPS, under the
two-class method described in SFAS No. 128,

Earnings Per Share

. This FSP is
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. All prior period EPS
data presented are to be adjusted retrospectively (including interim financial
statements, summaries of earnings, and selected financial data) to conform with
the provisions of this FSP. Management does not believe that the adoption of
this FSP will have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or
results of operations taken as a whole.

In
September 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 08-5,

Issuer’s Accounting for Liabilities Measured at Fair Value
with a Third-Party Credit Enhancement

, or
EITF 08-5. EITF 08-5 requires that the measurement of liabilities with
inseparable, third-party credit enhancements carried at or disclosed at fair
value on a recurring basis exclude the effect of the credit enhancement. EITF
08-5 is effective on a prospective basis in the first reporting period beginning
on or after December 15, 2008, and the effect of initially applying EITF 08-5
shall be included in the fair value in the period of adoption. Management is
evaluating the impact that EITF 08-5 will have on our financial
statements.

Reclassifications

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2008
presentation; specifically, certain contract labor expenses related to
landscaping activities which were previously classified within the landscape
line of property operating expenses have been reclassified to the personnel line
of property operating expenses and certain communities have been reclassified as
held for sale. The reclassifications had no effect on net income available for
common shareholders.

2. Stock Based Compensation

In
December 2004, FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised December 2004),

Share-Based Payment

(“Statement 123R”). Statement 123R replaces FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, and supersedes APB Opinion No.
25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees

. Statement 123R requires
compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions be recognized in
the financial statements. With limited exceptions, the amount of compensation
cost is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity or the
liability instruments issued. In addition, liability awards are remeasured each
reporting period. Compensation cost is recognized over the period that an
employee provides service in exchange for the award.

F-13

Mid-America adopted Statement 123R effective January 1, 2006 using the “modified
prospective” method permitted by Statement 123R in which compensation cost is
recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of
Statement 123R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and
(b) based on the requirements of Statement 123 for all awards granted to
employees prior to the effective date of Statement 123R that remain unvested on
the effective date. The effect of adopting Statement 123R for the year ended
December 31, 2006 was an increase of approximately $669,000 in net income from
continuing operations and in net income, resulting in an increase of
approximately $0.03 in basic earnings per share and $0.02 in diluted earnings
per share. These increases occurred primarily because the fair market values
assigned to certain plans at grant date were not impacted by the increase in
share price that Mid-America had experienced over the prior two years, resulting
in plans generating higher payouts for participants than their fair market value
models would have predicted based on then stock price volatility. This series of
events resulted in the amount recorded to compensation expense in accordance
with Statement 123R being smaller than the actual number of shares issued times
their issue price. The adoption of Statement 123R had no impact on cash flow
from operations or cash flow from financing activities.

Incentive Plans Overview and Summary

Mid-America’s stock compensation plans consist of the ESPP and a number of
incentives provided to attract and retain independent directors, executive
officers and key employees. Incentives are currently granted under the 2004
Stock Plan which was approved at the May 24, 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. This plan replaced the 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan
(collectively, the “Plans”) under which no further awards may be granted as of
January 31, 2004. The 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan allowed for
the grant of restricted stock and stock options up to a total of 2.4 million
shares. The 2004 Stock Plan allows for the grant of restricted stock and stock
options up to a total of 500,000 shares. Mid-America believes that such awards
better align the interests of its employees with those of its shareholders.
Total compensation costs under the Plans were approximately $1,022,000,
$697,000, and $858,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the total unrecognized compensation cost
related to the Plans was approximately $3,841,000. This cost is expected to be
recognized over the weighted average period of 2.1 years. Information concerning
specific grants under the Plans is listed below.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the
“ESPP”) provides a means for employees to purchase common stock of Mid-America.
The Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of 150,000 shares for the
plan. The ESPP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors who may annually grant options to employees to purchase annually up to
an aggregate of 15,000 shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the
market price of the common stock. Shares are purchased semi-annually on June 30
and December 31. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, 5,581,
4,894, and 4,462 shares, respectively, were purchased through the ESPP. Because
it is not possible to reasonably estimate fair value at the grant date,
Mid-America estimates the compensation costs based on intrinsic values updated
until the date of the settlement. Compensation cost recognized for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, was approximately $35,000, $35,000 and
$44,000, respectively.

Options

All
option awards made under the Plans have been granted with the exercise price
equal to the market price on the day of grant. The options vest over five years
of continuous service at a rate of 10%, 10%, 20%, 30% and 30%, and expire 10
years from grant date. Mid-America issues new shares when options are exercised.
Dividends are not paid on unexercised options.

F-14

The
fair value of each option award is estimated on the grant date using the
Black-Scholes method, which utilizes the assumptions noted in the following
table. Volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mid-America’s common
stock. Expected life of the option is estimated using historical data to
estimate option exercise and employee termination. Mid-America uses a U.S.
constant-maturity Treasury close to the same expected life of the option to
represent the risk-free rate. Turnover is based on the historical rate at which
options are exercised. Mid-America uses its current dividend yield at the time
of grant to estimate the dividend yield over the life of the option. No options
were granted during 2008, 2007 or 2006; therefore, no fair value was calculated.

A
summary of option activity under the Plans as of December 31, 2008, and the
changes during the year then ended follows:

Weighted-

Weighted-

Average

Average

Remaining

Aggregate

Exercise

Contractual

Intrinsic

Options

Shares

Price

Life

Value

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

110,526

$

23.52

Granted

—

—

Exercised

81,344

22.90

Forfeited

3,400

24.13

Expired

—

—

Outstanding at
      December 31, 2008

25,782

$

25.38

3.1

$

303,637

Exercisable at December 31, 2008

25,782

$

25.38

3.1

$

303,637

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31,
2008, was approximately $2,249,000. Cash received from the exercise of options
for the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $1,863,000.

Executive 2000 Restricted Stock

In
2000, Mid-America issued 10,750 restricted shares of common stock to executive
officers with a grant date fair value of $22.1875 per share. The grant date fair
value was determined by the closing trading price of Mid-America’s shares on the
day prior to the date of the grant. These shares vest 10% each over ten years
through 2010. The executive officers have the option to accelerate the vesting
in lieu of bonuses. As of December 31, 2008, no shares have been vested early.
Recipients receive dividend payments on the shares of restricted stock prior to
vesting.

F-15

A summary of the
status of the Executive 2000 Restricted Stock nonvested shares as of December
31, 2008, and the changes for the year ended December 31, 2008, is presented
below:

Weighted

Average

Grant-Date

Nonvested Shares

Shares

Fair Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2008

3,225

$

22.19

Granted

—

Vested

(1,075

)

$

22.19

Forfeited

—

Nonvested at December 31, 2008

2,150

$

22.19

As of December 31, 2008,
there was approximately $28,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to nonvested shares granted. This cost is expected to be recognized over the
weighted average period of 0.5 years. The total fair value of shares vesting
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, was approximately
$24,000, $24,000 and $24,000, respectively.

Key Managers 2002 Restricted Stock

In 2002, Mid-America issued 97,881 restricted shares of common stock to
key managers with a grant date fair value of $25.65 per share. The grant date
fair value was determined by the closing trading price of Mid-America’s shares
on the day prior to the date of the grant. As a result of three managers leaving
the employment of Mid-America, as of December 31, 2008, only 81,916 shares
remain issued. These shares will vest 20% on March 31 of each year for five
consecutive years beginning in 2008. Recipients receive dividend payments on the
shares of restricted stock prior to vesting.

A summary of the status of the Key Management 2002 Restricted Stock
nonvested shares as of December 31, 2008, and the changes for the year ended
December 31, 2008, is presented below:

Weighted

Average

Grant-Date

Nonvested Shares

Shares

Fair Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2008

81,916

$

25.65

Granted

—

Vested

(16,387

)

$

25.65

Forfeited

—

Nonvested at December 31, 2008

65,529

$

25.65

As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $660,000 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested shares granted. This cost is
expected to be recognized over the weighted average period of 2.0 years. The
total fair value of shares vesting during the year ended December 31, 2008 was
approximately $420,000. No shares vested during the years ended December 31,
2007 or 2006.

Director Restricted Stock Plan

Starting with the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, non-employee
directors elected to the Board of Directors received a grant of $75,000 worth of
restricted shares of common stock. The shares vest in three equal installments
over the director’s three-year term. To begin the program, non-employee
directors not sitting for re-election at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
received a pro-rata grant representing the number of years left in their term.
Non-employee directors appointed to the Board outside of the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders may be issued partial or initial grants. No shares of restricted
stock were granted to non-employee directors during 2007. At our 2008 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, a proposal was approved to move to annual elections of
directors and director grants were increased from what was effectively an annual
grant of $25,000 under the previous program to annual grants of $30,000.
Directors have the right to receive their grants either in shares of restricted
stock that will vest after one year of service on the Board of Directors or have
them issued into a deferred compensation plan.

F-16

A summary of the
status of the Director Restricted Stock nonvested shares as of December 31,
2008, and the changes for the year ended December 31, 2008, is presented below:

Weighted

Average

Grant-Date

Nonvested Shares

Shares

Fair Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2008

5,819

$

51.53

Granted

1,260

$

55.47

Vested

(3,077

)

$

48.74

Forfeited

—

Nonvested at December 31, 2008

4,002

$

54.92

As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $118,000 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation
arrangements granted. This cost is expected to be recognized over the weighted
average period of 0.5 years. The total fair value of shares vesting during the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, was approximately $150,000,
$187,000 and $154,000, respectively.

Key Managers 2005 Restricted
Stock

In 2005, the Board of Directors adopted the 2005 Key Management
Restricted Stock Plan (the “2005 Plan”), a long-term incentive program for key
managers and executive officers. The 2005 Plan grants shares of restricted stock
based on a sliding scale of total shareholder return over three 12-month periods
ending in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Any restricted stock earned will vest 100% three
years after the date of the restricted stock issuance. Recipients will receive
dividend payments on the shares of restricted stock during the restriction
periods. There is no automatic vesting of the shares. Based on Mid-America’s
performance from July 1, 2005, through June 30, 2006, 25,034 restricted shares
of common stock were issued to key managers and executive officers on June 30,
2006. No shares of restricted stock were issued in 2007 or 2008. As a result of
three managers leaving the employment of Mid-America, as of December 31, 2008,
only 22,532 shares remain issued under this plan.

The fair value of the stock award was estimated on the grant date using a
Monte Carlo simulation with the assumptions noted in the following table.
Volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mid-America’s common stock.
The expected term of the 2005 Plan is based on the criteria for the plan and the
expected life of the awards. Mid-America uses a U.S. constant-maturity Treasury
with the same term as the expected term of the 2005 Plan to represent the
risk-free rate. Turnover is based on the historical experience for the key
managers and executive officers. Mid-America uses its current dividend yield at
the time of grant to estimate the dividend yield over the life of the
plan.

Volatility

17.10

%

Expected life in
      years


Risk-free rate

3.77

%

Dividend
yield

5.20

%

As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $537,000 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation
arrangements granted. Mid-America’s policy is to recognize compensation cost on
a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for an entire award
(rather than each portion of an award). Accordingly, the $537,000 unrecognized
cost will be recognized over the weighted average period of 1.7 years. No shares
vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 or 2006.

F-17

Long-Term Performance Based Incentive
Plan for Executive Officers

The Compensation
Committee, by authorization of the Board of Directors of Mid-America, submitted
the Long-Term Performance Based Incentive Plan for Executive Officers (the
“Long-Term Plan”), which was approved by shareholders on June 2, 2003. The
Long-Term Plan allowed executive management to earn performance units that
converted into shares of restricted stock based on achieving defined total
shareholder investment performance levels. Based on Mid-America’s performance
from January 1, 2003, through December 31, 2005, 74,895 restricted shares of
common stock were issued to executive management on March 14, 2006. While these
shares of restricted stock will be entitled to dividend payments, they will not
be transferable or have voting privileges until they vest. Dependent upon the
executive officer’s continued employment with Mid-America, these shares of
restricted stock vest 20% annually from 2006 through 2010.

The fair value of the stock award was estimated on the grant date using a
Monte Carlo simulation with the assumptions noted in the following table.
Volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mid-America’s common stock.
The expected term of the Long-Term Plan is based on the criteria for the plan
and the expected life of the awards. Mid-America uses a U.S. constant-maturity
Treasury for the same term as the expected term of the Long-Term Plan to
represent the risk-free rate. Turnover is based on the historical experience for
the key managers and executive officers. Mid-America uses its current dividend
yield at the time of grant to estimate the dividend yield over the life of the
plan.

Volatility

6.38

%

Expected life in
      years


Risk-free rate

1.99

%

Dividend
yield

9.60

%

For the year ended December 31, 2008, compensation costs related to the
Long-Term Plan were approximately $41,000. As of December 31, 2008, there was
approximately $83,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted. This unrecognized cost
will be recognized over the weighted average period of 1.5 years. The total fair
value of shares vesting during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006, was approximately $66,200, $66,200, and $66,200, respectively.

Key Managers 2008 Restricted
Stock

In 2008, the Board of Directors adopted the 2008 Key Management
Restricted Stock Plan (the “2008 Plan”), a long-term incentive program for key
managers and executive officers. The 2008 Plan consists of both an annual and
three year program. Under the annual program participants can earn both service
and performance based shares of restricted stock. The service based shares are
awarded at the beginning of the 2008 Plan with the timing of vesting dependent
on employment and total shareholder return performance. The earning of
restricted shares under the performance program is based on employment and total
shareholder return performance. Any shares earned through the annual performance
program will be issued on January 1, 2010 and will vest 50% annually beginning
on January 1, 2010. Participation in the three year program is limited to the
executive officers and awards shares of restricted stock based upon both
Mid-America’s total shareholder return performance over a three year period and
that performance in relation to that of our peers. Any shares earned through the
three year program will be issued on January 1, 2012 and will vest 25% annually
beginning on January 1, 2013. Recipients will receive dividend payments on any
shares of restricted stock earned and issued during the restriction periods. On
July 1, 2008, Mid-America issued 15,920 shares of restricted stock under the
annual service based program of the 2008 Plan. As a result of two managers
leaving the employment of Mid-America, as of December 31, 2008, 149 shares have
been forfeited and 473 shares have early vested.

F-18

The fair value of
the stock award was estimated on the grant date using a multifactor Monte Carlo
simulation. The valuation used an interest rate term structure as of July 1,
2008 based on a zero coupon risk-free rate to represent the risk-free rate for
the simulation which varied between 1.95% for 0.25 years to 3.24% for 4.00
years. The dividend yield assumption was 4.669% and was based on the closing
stock price of $52.69 on July 1, 2008. Volatility for Mid-America and our peers
was obtained by using a blend of both historical and implied volatility
calculations. Historical volatility was based on the standard deviation of daily
total continuous returns and implied volatility was based on the trailing month
average of interpolating between the volatilities implied by stock call option
contracts that were closest to the terms and closest to the money. Volatility
for Mid-America was 34.87% for year 1, 30.92% for year 2, 29.63% for year 3, and
28.61% for year 4. Volatilities for our peers ranged from 25.05% to 49.94%. The
requisite service period of the 2008 Plan is based on the criteria for the
separate programs and is 5.5 years for the annual service based program, 2.5
years for the annual performance based program and 7.5 years for the three-year
program. Turnover is based on the historical experience for the key managers and
executive officers.

As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $2,416,000 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation
arrangements granted. Mid-America’s policy is to recognize compensation cost on
a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for an entire award
(rather than each portion of an award). Accordingly, the $2,416,000 unrecognized
cost will be recognized over the weighted average period of 2.3 years. No shares
vested during the year ended December 31, 2008.

3. Comprehensive Income

Total comprehensive income and its components for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows (dollars in thousands):

Twelve months

ended December 31,




Net
      income

$

30,249

$

39,946

$

20,945

Marked-to-market
      adjustment on derivative instruments

(60,800

)

(27,805

)

3,769

Total
      comprehensive (loss) income

$

(30,551

)

$

12,141

$

24,714

4. Real Estate Joint Ventures

In 2004, Mid-America entered into a joint venture (“CH/Realty II”) with
Crow Holdings with the purchase of the Verandas at Timberglen apartments.
Mid-America owned a 33.33% interest in CH/Realty II, and contributed 33.33% of
the capital necessary to establish the joint venture. On January 12, 2007,
CH/Realty II sold the Verandas at Timberglen apartments and Mid-America sold its
ownership interest in CH/Realty II to Crow Holdings. As a result, Mid-America
booked a gain on sale of $5.4 million and an incentive fee of $1 million, both
of which are recorded in Mid-America’s 2007 consolidated financial statements.
Following the sale of the property from the joint venture, Mid-America’s
relationship with Crow Holdings in CH/Realty II ceased to exist.

F-19

In 2007,
Mid-America entered into a joint venture, Mid-America Multifamily Fund I, LLC
(“Fund I”), with institutional capital in which we also own a 33.33% interest.
In 2008, Fund I acquired two properties with a combined total of 626 units. As
of December 31, 2008, Mid-America does not expect to make further investments
through Fund I.

The income, contributions, distributions and ending investment balances
related to Mid-America’s joint ventures consisted of the following for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 (dollars in thousands):

F-20

5. Borrowings

Mid-America
maintains a total of $1,044 million

of secured credit facilities with Prudential Mortgage Capital,
credit enhanced by FNMA (the “FNMA Facilities”). The FNMA Facilities provide for
both fixed and variable rate borrowings and have traunches with maturities from
2011 through 2018.

The interest rate on the majority of the variable portion renews every 90
days and is based on the FNMA discount mortgage backed security rate on the date
of renewal, which, for Mid-America, has historically approximated three-month
LIBOR less an average spread of 0.05% - 0.13% over

the life of the FNMA Facilities, plus a
fee of 0.49% to 0.795%.

Borrowings under the FNMA Facilities totaled $905 million at December 31,
2008, consisting of $65 million under a fixed portion at a rate of 7.7%, and the
remaining $840 million under the variable rate portion of the facility at an
average rate of 2.9%. The available borrowing base capacity at December 31,
2008, was $1,044 million. Commitment fees related to our unused FNMA Facilities
totaled approximately $183 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Mid-America has 21 interest rate swap agreements, totaling a notional amount of
$666 million designed to fix the interest rate on a portion of the variable rate
borrowings outstanding under the FNMA Facilities at approximately 5.3%. The
interest rate swaps have maturities between 2010 and 2015. The swaps are highly
effective and are designed as cash flow hedges. Mid-America has also entered
into thirteen interest rate caps totaling a notional amount of $82 million which
are designated against the FNMA Facilities. These interest rate caps have
maturities between 2009 and 2013 and twelve are set at 6.0% and one is set at
6.5%. The FNMA Facilities are subject to certain borrowing base calculations
that can effectively reduce the amount that may be borrowed.

Mid-America has a $300 million credit facility with Freddie MAC (the
“Freddie Mac Facility”). At December 31, 2008, Mid-America had $276 million
borrowed against the Freddie Mac Facility at an interest rate of 1.1%.
Commitment fees related to our Freddie Mac Facility totaled approximately $137
thousand for the year ended December 31, 2008. Mid-America has thirteen interest
rate swap agreements, totaling a notional amount of $217 million designed to fix
the interest rate on a portion of the variable rate borrowings outstanding under
the Freddie Mac Facility at approximately 5.3%. The interest rate swaps expire
in 2011 and 2014.

Mid-America also maintains a $50 million secured credit facility with two
banks led by Regions Bank (the “Regions Credit Line”; formerly with AmSouth Bank
before their merger in 2006). The Regions Credit Line bears an interest rate of
LIBOR plus a spread of 1.25%. This credit line expires in May 2010 and is
subject to certain borrowing base calculations that effectively reduce the
amount that may be borrowed. At December 31, 2008, Mid-America had $44 million
available to be borrowed under the Regions Credit Line agreement with $1 million
borrowed under this facility at an interest rate of 2.0%. Approximately $6
million of the facility is used for letters of credit.

Each of Mid-America’s credit facilities is subject to various covenants
and conditions on usage. If Mid-America were to fail to satisfy a condition to
borrowing, the available credit under one or more of the facilities could not be
drawn, which could adversely affect Mid-America’s liquidity. Moreover, if
Mid-America were to fail to make a payment or violate a covenant under a credit
facility, after applicable cure periods one or more of its lenders could declare
a default, accelerate the due date for repayment of all amounts outstanding
and/or foreclose on properties securing such facilities. Any such event could
have a material adverse effect on Mid-America. Mid-America believes it was in
compliance with these covenants and conditions on usage at December 31, 2008.

Mid-America had outstanding at December 31, 2008, a $39 million
promissory note with Regions Bank, (formerly with Union Planters Bank before
their merger in July 2004) at a variable interest rate based on three month
LIBOR of 3.2% which matures in April 2009. Mid-America has entered into an
interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25 million and an
interest rate of 5.0% which expires in 2009 and is designated against the
Regions Bank promissory note.

F-21

At December 31,
2008, Mid-America had $71 million of fixed rate conventional individual property
mortgages with an average interest rate of 5.9% and an average maturity of 2020,
a $15 million variable rate mortgage with an embedded cap rate of 7% at an
interest rate of 3.8% with a maturity in 2015, a $12 million fixed rate tax
exempt individual property mortgage with an interest rate of 5.3% and a maturity
in 2028, and a $5 million variable rate tax exempt individual property mortgage
at an interest rate of 3.9% with a maturity in 2028.

At December 31, 2008, Mid-America had $180 million

(after considering the impact of interest
rate swap agreements in effect) conventional variable rate debt outstanding at
an average interest rate of 2.5%, $5 million (after considering the impact of
interest rate swap agreements) of tax-free variable rate debt outstanding at an
average rate of 3.9%, $18 million of capped conventional variable rate debt at
an average interest rate of 2.8%, and an additional $64 million of capped
tax-free variable rate debt at an average rate of

1.8%. The interest rate on all other debt,
totaling $1,056 million, was hedged or fixed at an average interest rate of
5.5%.

As of December 31, 2008, Mid-America estimated that the weighted average
interest rate on Mid-America’s debt was 4.8%.

The following table summarizes Mid-America’s indebtedness at December 31,
2008, and 2007, (dollars in millions):

At December 31, 2008

Actual

Average

Balance at

Interest

Interest

December 31,

Rates

Rate

Maturity

Balance


Fixed Rate:

Taxable

5.30-7.71%

6.74%

2009-2044

$

136.4

$

223.0

Tax-exempt

5.25%

5.25%


11.6

11.9

Interest rate swaps

4.38-6.42%

5.31%

2009-2015

908.2

756.3

$

1,056.2

991.2

Variable Rate:

(1)

Taxable

0.66-4.62%

2.47%

2009-2018

179.8

221.5

Tax-exempt

3.86%

3.86%


4.8

4.8

Interest rate caps

1.66-2.83%

1.99%

2009-2013

82.3

47.1

266.9

273.4

$

1,323.1

$

1,264.6

____________________

(1)

Amounts are adjusted to reflect interest rate swap
      and cap agreements in effect at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively
      which results in Mid-America paying fixed interest payments over the terms
      of the interest rate swaps and on changes in interest rates above the
      strike rate of the cap.

F-22

The following table includes scheduled principal repayments on the
borrowings at December 31, 2008, as well as the amortization of the fair market
value of debt assumed (dollars in thousands):

Year

Amortization

Maturities

Total


$

1,732

$

38,625

$

40,357


1,827


2,488


1,929

176,404

178,333


2,036

80,000

82,036


2,410

158,629

161,039

Thereafter

64,724

794,079

858,803

$

74,658

$

1,248,398

$

1,323,056

F-23

6.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Following are the
details of the interest rate swaps that were entered into as of December 31,
2008 (dollars in thousands):

Interest Rate

Notional

Fixed

Balance

Variable Leg Base

Leg

Expiration

Interest rate swaps designated against the FNMA
      Facilities

50,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.48

%


40,000

3-month LIBOR

5.54

%


50,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.36

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

5.15

%


50,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.29

%


50,000

3-month LIBOR

5.00

%


50,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.06

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

5.34

%


25,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.34

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

5.89

%


25,000

3-month
      LIBOR

6.10

%


50,000

3-month LIBOR

6.22

%


25,000

3-month
      LIBOR

6.09

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

5.02

%


25,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.12

%


50,000

3-month LIBOR

4.94

%


25,000

3-month
      LIBOR

4.58

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

5.21

%


640,000

5.37

%

Interest rate swaps designated against the FNMA Tax-Free
      Bond Facility

8,365

BMA Municipal
      Swap Index

4.73

%


10,800

BMA Municipal Swap Index

4.42

%


7,000

BMA Municipal
      Swap Index

4.42

%


26,165

4.51

%

Interest rate swaps designated against the Freddie Mac
      Facility

26,000

3-month LIBOR

5.40

%


10,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.11

%


15,000

3-month LIBOR

5.19

%


15,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.72

%


17,000

3-month LIBOR

5.53

%


10,000

1-month
      LIBOR

6.25

%


10,000

1-month LIBOR

6.42

%


10,000

1-month
      LIBOR

5.87

%


10,000

3-month LIBOR

5.72

%


7,000

3-month
      LIBOR

5.72

%


22,000

3-month LIBOR

4.38

%


40,000

3-month
      LIBOR

4.82

%


25,000

3-month LIBOR

4.87

%


217,000

5.27

%

Interest rate swaps designated against Union Planters
      Bank borrowings

25,000

4.98

%


Total interest rate swaps entered into

as of December 31, 2008

$

908,165

5.31

%

F-24

At December 31,
2008, all of Mid-America’s interest rate swaps and interest rate caps were
designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with Statement No. 133 as amended.
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Mid-America recorded approximately $77.0
million and $16.0 million, respectively, to accrued expenses and other
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Mid-America also recorded
approximately $0.1 million and $0.0 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, to other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. These accrued
expenses and other liabilities, and other assets represented the fair values of
the interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.

7. Fair Value Disclosure of Financial
Instruments

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other liabilities and security deposits are carried at amounts
which reasonably approximate their fair value due to their short term
nature.

Fixed rate notes payable at December 31, 2008, and 2007, total $148
million and $235 million, respectively, and have estimated fair values of $142
million and $221 million (excluding prepayment penalties), respectively, based
upon interest rates available for the issuance of debt with similar terms and
remaining maturities as of December 31, 2008, and 2007. The carrying value of
variable rate notes payable (excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap
agreements) at December 31, 2008, and 2007, total $1,078 million and $1,030
million, respectively, based upon interest rates available for the issuance of
debt with similar terms and remaining maturities as of December 31, 2008, and
2007.

In the normal course of business, Mid-America uses certain derivative
financial instruments to manage, or hedge, the interest rate risk associated
with our variable rate debt or to hedge anticipated future debt transactions to
manage well-defined interest rate risk associated with the
transaction.

We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes. Further, Mid-America has a policy of entering into contracts with
major financial institutions based upon their credit rating and other factors.
When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the
derivatives are designated to hedge, Mid-America has not sustained any material
loss from those instruments nor do we anticipate any material adverse effect on
our net income or financial position in the future from the use of
derivatives.

Mid-America requires that derivative financial instruments designated as
cash flow hedges be effective in reducing the interest rate risk exposure that
we are designated to hedge. This effectiveness is essential for qualifying for
hedge accounting. Instruments that meet the hedging criteria are formally
designated as hedging instruments at the inception of the derivative contract.
We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged
items, as well as our risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking the
hedge transaction. This process includes linking all derivatives that are
designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and liabilities
on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions.
We also formally assess, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and
on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives used are highly effective in
offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. When it is determined that a
derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, Mid-America discontinues
hedge accounting prospectively.

All of our derivative financial instruments are reported at fair value,
are represented on the balance sheet, and are characterized as cash flow hedges.
These transactions hedge the future cash flows of debt transactions through
interest rate swaps that convert variable payments to fixed payments and
interest rate caps that limit the exposure to rising interest rates. The
unrealized gains/losses in the fair value of these hedging instruments are
reported on the balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated
other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion of the hedging
transactions reclassified to earnings. As of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006
the year-to-date ineffective portion of the hedging transactions reclassified to
earnings was a $93,000 decrease, a $470,000 decrease, and a $144,000 decrease,
respectively, to interest expense.

F-25

On January 1, 2008, Mid-America adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

(“Statement 157”).

Statement 157 defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements. Statement 157 applies to reported balances that are
required or permitted to be measured at fair value under existing accounting
pronouncements; accordingly, the standard does not require any new fair value
measurements of reported balances.

Statement 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement,
not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should
be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant
assumptions in fair value measurements, Statement 157 establishes a fair value
hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on
market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity
(observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy)
and the reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions
(unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy).

Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities that Mid-America has the ability to access.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are
observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2
inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active
markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other
than quoted prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield
curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are
unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on an
entity’s own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity.
In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on
inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair
value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its
entirety. Mid-America’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to
the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers
factors specific to the asset or liability.

Currently, Mid-America uses certain derivative financial
instruments

to manage its interest rate risk. The valuation of these instruments is
determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash
flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. The fair values of
interest rate swaps are determined using the market standard methodology of
netting the discounted future fixed cash payments and the discounted expected
variable cash receipts. The variable cash receipts are based on an expectation
of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market
interest rate curves.

The fair values of interest rate options are determined using the market
standard methodology of discounting the future expected cash receipts that would
occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rate of the caps. The
variable interest rates used in the calculation of projected receipts on the cap
are based on an expectation of future interest rates derived from observable
market interest rate curves and volatilities.

To comply with the provisions of Statement
157, we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both
our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty’s nonperformance
risk in the fair value measurements of all of our derivative financial
instruments. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the
effect of nonperformance risk, Mid-America has considered the impact of netting
and any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds,
mutual puts, and guarantees.

Although Mid-America has determined that the majority of the inputs used
to value our derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the
credit valuation adjustments associated with our derivatives utilize Level 3
inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood
of default by our self and our counterparties. As of December 31, 2008,
Mid-America has assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation
adjustments on the overall valuation of our derivative positions and has
determined that the credit valuation adjustments are significant to the overall
valuation of our derivatives. As a result, we have determined that our
derivative valuations in their entirety are classified in Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy.

F-26

The table below
presents the Mid-America’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis as of December 31, 2008, aggregated by the level in the fair
value hierarchy within which those measurements fall.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair
Value on a Recurring Basis at December 31, 2008

(dollars in
thousands)

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets

Significant

for Identical

Other

Significant

Balance at

Assets and

Observable

Unobservable

December 31,

Liabilities (Level 1)

Inputs (Level 2)

Inputs (Level 3)


Assets

Derivative financial

instruments

$

—

$

—

$


$


Liabilities

Derivative financial

instruments

$

—

$

—

$

76,961

$

76,961

The table below presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending
balances of assets and liabilities having fair value measurements based on
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).

Changes in Level 3 Assets/(Liabilities)
Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the year

ended December 31,

(dollars in thousands)

Total Realized and

Unrealized Gains

Total Gains

Included in Other

Purchases,

Net Transfers

Balance at

Included in

Comprehensive

Issuances and

In
      and/or Out

Balance at

12/31/2007

Income

Income

Settlements

of Level 3

12/31/2008

Derivative financial

instruments

$

(15,976)

$

(74)

$

(60,969)

$


$

—

$

(76,910)

F-27

Changes in Level 3
Assets/(Liabilities) Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the
period

October 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008

(dollars in thousands)

Total Realized and

Unrealized Gains

Total Gains

Included in Other

Purchases,

Net Transfers

Balance at

Included in

Comprehensive

Issuances and

In
      and/or Out

Balance at

9/30/2008

Income

Income

Settlements

of Level 3

12/31/2008

Derivative financial

instruments

$

(18,980)

$


$

(58,153)

$


$

—

$

(76,910)

Of the instruments for which Mid-America utilized significant Level 3
inputs to determine fair value and that were still held by Mid-America at
December 31, 2008, the unrealized loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 was
$61.2 million. The fair value of these instruments are reported on the balance
sheet in Other Assets and Fair Market Value of Interest Rate Swaps with a
corresponding adjustment for the unrealized gains/losses to accumulated other
comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion of the hedging transactions
reclassified to interest expense. We use three major banks to provide nearly 78%
of our swaps, JP Morgan Chase, Royal Bank of Canada, and Deutsche Bank, all of
which have high investment grade ratings from Moody’s and S&P. Our interest
rate swaps with JP Morgan Chase, Royal Bank of Canada, and Deutsche Bank had
liability positions on our Consolidated Balance Sheets of $7.5 million, $27.1
million and $30.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008.

Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair
value of positions that Mid-America has classified within the Level 3 category.
As a result, the unrealized gains and losses for assets and liabilities within
the Level 3 category presented in the tables above may include changes in fair
value that were attributable to both observable and unobservable
inputs.

The fair value estimates presented herein are based on information
available to management as of December 31, 2008, and 2007. These estimates are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts Mid-America could ultimately realize.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Mid-America is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to
Mid-America’s knowledge, with advice of legal counsel, is any material
litigation threatened against Mid-America. Mid-America is subject to routine
litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which is expected
to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is expected to have a
material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of Mid-America.

Mid-America had operating lease expense of approximately $13,000,
$11,300, and $12,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Mid-America has commitments of approximately $15,600 in 2009,
$15,600 in 2010, $15,600 in 2011, $9,100 in 2012 under operating lease
agreements outstanding at December 31, 2008.

9. Income Taxes

No provision for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. Mid-America has made an election to be taxed
as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, Mid-America is generally not subject to
federal income tax on that portion of its income that qualifies as REIT taxable
income to the extent that it distributes at least 90% of its taxable income to
Mid-America’s shareholders and complies with certain requirements. If
Mid-America fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, Mid-America will be
subject to the federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum
tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Even though Mid-America
qualifies for taxation as a REIT, Mid-America may be subject to certain federal,
state and local taxes on our income and property and to federal income and
excise tax on our undistributed income.

F-28

Earnings and
profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to shareholders, differ
from net income reported for financial reporting purposes primarily because of
differences in depreciable lives, bases of certain assets and liabilities and in
the timing of recognition of earnings upon disposition of properties. For
federal income tax purposes, the following summarizes the taxability of cash
distributions paid on the common shares in 2007 and 2006 and the estimated
taxability for 2008:




Per common share

Ordinary income

$

1.43

$

1.44

$

0.94

Capital
      gains

—

0.47

—

Return of capital

1.03

0.51

1.44

Total

$

2.46

$

2.42

$

2.38

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued
Interpretation No. 48

Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes

, or FIN 48. FIN
48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in
financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes

. Mid-America adopted FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. FIN 48 prescribes
a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition and
measurement of tax positions taken in tax returns. Mid-America has identified
and examined our tax positions, including our status as a real estate investment
trust, for all open tax years through December 31, 2006, and concluded that the
full benefit of each tax position taken should be recognized in the financial
statements. There were no significant changes in unrecognized tax benefits that
occurred within the twelve months following the adoption date.

FIN 48 requires that an enterprise must calculate interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits. The decision regarding where to classify
interest and penalties on the income statement is an accounting policy decision
that should be consistently applied. Interest and penalties calculated on any
future uncertain tax positions will be presented as a component of income tax
expense. No interest and penalties are accrued under FIN 48 on our balance sheet
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Mid-America’s tax years that remain subject to examination for U.S.
federal purposes range from 2004 through 2007. Our tax years that remain open
for state examination vary but range from 2003 through 2007.

10. Shareholders’ Equity

Series F Preferred Stock

In 2002, Mid-America issued Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock (“Series F Preferred Stock”) with a $25.00 per share liquidation
preference and a preferential cumulative annual distribution of $2.3125 per
share, payable monthly. On October 16, 2007, Mid-America redeemed all of the
474,500 issued and outstanding shares of the Series F Preferred Stock for $11.9
million.

Series H Preferred Stock

In 2003, Mid-America issued the Series H Preferred Stock with a $25.00
per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.075 per share, payable quarterly. Mid-America has outstanding
6,200,000 Series H Preferred Stock shares for which it received net proceeds of
$150.1 million. On and after August 11, 2008, the Series H Preferred Stock
shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of Mid-America, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends
owed and unpaid to the redemption date.

F-29

Direct Stock Purchase and Distribution
Reinvestment Plan

Mid-America has a
Dividend and Distribution Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (“DRSPP”)
pursuant to which Mid-America's shareholders have the ability to reinvest all or
part of their distributions from Mid-America’s common stock, preferred stock or
limited partnership interests in Mid-America Apartments, L.P. into Mid-America’s
common stock. The plan also provides the opportunity to make optional cash
investments in common shares of at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any
given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. Mid-America, in its
absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in
excess of $5,000. To fulfill its obligations under the DRSPP, Mid-America may
either issue additional shares of common stock or repurchase common stock in the
open market. Mid-America has registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission the offer and sale of up to 7,600,000 shares of common stock pursuant
to the DRSPP. Mid-America may elect to sell shares under the DRSPP at up to a 5%
discount.

Common stock shares totaling 421,794 in 2008, 136,483 in 2007, and
1,356,015 in 2006, were acquired by shareholders under the DRSPP. Mid-America
offered an average of a 1.5% discount for optional cash purchases in 2008, 2007
and 2006.

Controlled Equity Offering

On November 3, 2006, Mid-America entered into a sales agreement with
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. to sell up to 2,000,000 shares of Mid-America’s
common stock, from time to time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated
transactions through a controlled equity offering program. On July 3, 2008,
Mid-America entered into a second agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.
with materially the same terms for an additional 1,350,000 shares.

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Mid-America sold
1,955,300, 323,700, and 194,000 shares of common stock for net proceeds of
$103.6 million, $18.8 million and $11.5 million, respectively.

Stock Repurchase Plan

In 1999, Mid-America’s Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase
plan to acquire up to a total of 4.0 million shares of Mid-America’s common
stock. Through December 31, 2007, Mid-America has repurchased and retired
approximately 1.9 million shares of common stock for a cost of approximately $42
million at an average price per common share of $22.54. No shares were
repurchased in 2002 through 2008 under the plan.

11. 8 5/8% Series G Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock

In 2002, Mid-America issued 8 5/8% Series G Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock (“Series G”) with a $25.00 per share liquidation preference and
a preferential cumulative annual distribution of $2.15625 per share, payable
monthly. Mid-America has outstanding 400,000 Series G shares issued in a direct
placement with private investors (“Investors”) for which it received aggregate
proceeds of $10 million. On or after November 15, 2004, Mid-America or the
Investors may give the required one-year notice to redeem or put, respectively,
all or part of the Series G shares beginning on or after November 15, 2005, in
increments of $1 million. In the event the Investors elect to put all or a part
of the Series G to Mid-America, Mid-America has the option to redeem all or a
portion of the shares of the Series G in shares of common stock of Mid-America
in lieu of cash.

F-30

On May 26, 2005,
Mid-America gave the required one-year notice to redeem all of the issued and
outstanding Series G shares. As a result, in accordance with Statement No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“Statement 150”), Mid-America classified the Series G as a liability
within notes payable as of May 26, 2005, on the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. Statement 150 also requires that all subsequent dividend
payments be classified as interest expense on the consolidated financial
statements.

On May 26, 2006, Mid-America redeemed all of the issued and outstanding
shares of Series G.

12. Employee Benefit Plans

Following are details of employee benefit plans not previously discussed
in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, Note 2.

401(k) Savings Plan

The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan is a
defined contribution plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 401(a) and
401(k) of the Code. Mid-America may, but is not obligated to, make a matching
contribution of $0.50 for each $1.00 contributed, up to 6% of the participant’s
compensation. Mid-America’s contribution to this plan was approximately
$405,000, $483,000, and $383,000, in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation
Retirement Plan

Mid-America has adopted a non-qualified deferred compensation retirement
plan for key employees who are not qualified for participation in Mid-America’s
401(k) Savings Plan. Under the terms of the plan, employees may elect to defer a
percentage of their compensation and Mid-America may, but is not obligated to,
match a portion of their salary deferral. The plan is designed so that the
employees’ investment earnings under the non-qualified plan should be the same
as the earning assets in Mid-America’s 401(k) Savings Plan. Mid-America’s match
to this plan in 2008, 2007, and 2006 was approximately $63,000, $43,000, and
$60,000, respectively.

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation
Plan for Outside Company Directors

In 1998, Mid-America established the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation
Plan for Outside Company Directors (the “Directors Deferred Compensation Plan”),
which allows non-employee directors to defer their director fees by having the
fees held by Mid-America as shares of Mid-America common stock. Directors can
also choose to have their annual restricted stock grants issued into the
Directors Deferred Compensation Plan. Amounts deferred through the Directors
Deferred Compensation Plan are distributed to the directors in two annual
installments beginning in the first 90 days of the year following the director’s
departure from the board. Participating directors may choose to have the amount
issued to them in shares of Mid-America common stock or paid to them as cash at
the market value as of the end of the year the director ceases to serve on the
board.

During 2008,
2007, and 2006, Mid-America issued 6,600, 5,572, and 4,146 shares of common
stock, respectively, with weighted-average grant date fair values of $47.92,
$51.29, and $57.05, respectively, to outside directors.

F-31

In
accordance with ASR 268 and EITF D-98: “Classification and Measurement of
Redeemable

Securities”, the shares of common
stock held in the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan are classified outside of
permanent equity in redeemable stock because the directors have redemption
rights not solely within the control of Mid-America. Additionally, any shares
that become mandatorily redeemable because a departed director has elected to
receive a cash payout are recorded as a liability as required by FASB 150
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both
Liabilities and Equity.” Accordingly, $246,000, and $230,000 was recorded in
accrued expenses and other liabilities at December 31, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.

Employee Stock Ownership
Plan

The Mid-America Apartment
Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the “ESOP”) is a
non-contributory stock bonus plan that satisfies the requirements of Section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each employee of Mid-America is eligible to
participate in the ESOP after completing one year of service with Mid-America.
Participants' ESOP accounts will be 100% vested after three years of continuous
service, with no vesting prior to that time. Mid-America contributed 22,500
shares of common stock to the ESOP upon conclusion of the initial offering.
During 2008, 2007, and 2006, Mid-America contributed approximately $991,000,
$876,000, and $774,000, respectively, to the ESOP which purchased an additional
21,822, 16,613, and 13,804, shares of common stock, with weighted-average grant
date fair values of $45.41, $52.75, and $56.08, respectively.

Restricted Stock and Stock Option
Plan

Mid-America adopted the 1994
Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan (the “1994 Plan”) to provide incentives
to attract and retain independent directors, executive officers and key
employees. As of January 31, 2004, no further awards may be granted under this
plan. The 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan was replaced by the 2004
Stock Plan (collectively the “Plans”) by shareholder approval at the May 24,
2004, Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Plans provide(d) for the granting of
options to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock (“Options”) or
grants of restricted shares of common stock (“Restricted Stock”). The Plan also
allow(ed) Mid-America to grant options to purchase Operating Partnership Units
at the price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior
to issuance of the units (the “LESOP Provision”). The 1994 Plan authorized the
issuance of 2,400,000 common shares or options to acquire shares. The 2004 Stock
Plan authorizes the issuance of 500,000 common shares or options to acquire
shares. Under the terms of the 1994 Plan, Mid-America could advance directors,
executive officers, and key employees a portion of the cost of the common stock
or units. The employee advances mature five years from the date of issuance and
accrue interest, payable in arrears, at a rate established at the date of
issuance. Mid-America has also entered into supplemental bonus agreements with
the employees which are intended to fund the payment of a portion of the
advances over a five year period. Under the terms of the supplemental bonus
agreements, Mid-America will pay bonuses to these employees equal to 3% of the
original note balance on each anniversary date of the advance, limited to 15% of
the aggregate purchase price of the shares and units. In March of 2002,
Mid-America entered into duplicate supplemental bonus agreements on the then
existing options to executive officers, effectively doubling their advances. The
advances become due and payable and the bonus agreement will terminate if the
employees voluntarily terminate their employment with Mid-America. Mid-America
also agreed to pay a bonus to certain executive officers in an amount equal to
the debt service on the advances for as long as they remain employed by
Mid-America.

As of December 31, 2008, Mid-America
had one advance outstanding relating to the Plan totaling approximately $69,000,
which is recorded in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets. The $69,000 advance at December 31, 2008, is to one former executive
officer, has an interest rate of 6.4% and matures in May 2010.

F-32

13. Earnings from Discontinued
Operations

In accordance with Statement No.
144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the four
communities that Mid-America sold in 2007, along with the three communities that
Mid-America has identified as communities we are actively marketing for sale as
of December 31, 2008, have been classified as discontinued operations in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The following is a summary of earnings
from discontinued operations for the three years ended December 31, 2008,
(dollars in thousands):




Revenues:

Rental revenues

$

5,362

$

7,424

$

9,697

Other
      revenues




Total
      revenues

5,636

7,814

10,141

Expenses:

Property
      operating expenses

3,130

3,919

5,113

Depreciation
      and amortization


1,517

2,003

Other
      non-property income

—

(1

)

(10

)

Interest expense


1,133

1,609

Income on
      debt extinguishment

—

—

(27

)

Total
      expenses

4,324

6,568

8,688

Earnings from
      discontinued operations

before gain
      on sale and settlement proceeds

1,312

1,246

1,453

(Loss) gain on sale

(120

)

9,164

—

Earnings from
      discontinued operations

$

1,192

$

10,410

$

1,453

On July 7, 2008, Mid-America entered
into a listing agreement to market for sale Westbury Springs, a 150-unit
community in Lilburn, GA, and Mid-America classified the community as held for
sale at that time; however, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we made the
determination to end the active marketing of Westbury Springs based on market
feedback. As a result, Westbury Springs was classified as held for use and
therefore is not included in the discontinued operation line in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations as of December 31, 2008. Furthermore, as of December
31, 2008, Westbury Springs was valued at its carrying amount before it was
classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation expense that would
have been recognized had the asset been continuously classified as held for use,
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

14. Related Party
Transactions

Pursuant to management contracts
with Mid-America’s joint ventures, Mid-America manages the operations of the
joint venture apartment communities for a fee of 4% of the revenues of the joint
venture. Mid-America received approximately $206,000, $34,000, and $210,000, as
management fees from the joint ventures in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Also in 2008, Mid-America received approximately $50,000 of acquisition fees,
$185,000 in asset management fees and $22,000 in construction management fees
from our joint venture. No such fees were received in 2007 and 2006.

Mid-America has an advance to one
former executive officer through the 1994 Plan as discussed in Note
12.

F-33

15. Segment Information

At December
31, 2008, Mid-America owned or had an ownership interest in 145 multifamily
apartment communities in 13 different states from which it derives all
significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. Mid-America’s
operational structure is organized on a decentralized basis, with individual
property managers having overall responsibility and authority regarding the
operations of their respective properties. Each property manager individually
monitors local and area trends in rental rates, occupancy percentages, and
operating costs. Property managers are given the on-site responsibility and
discretion to react to such trends in the best interest of Mid-America.
Mid-America’s senior management evaluates the performance of each individual
property based on its contribution to net operating income in order to ensure
that the individual property continues to meet Mid-America’s return criteria and
long term investment goals. Mid-America defines each of its multifamily
communities as an individual operating segment. It has also determined that all
of its communities have similar economic characteristics and meet the other
criteria which permit the communities to be aggregated into one reportable
segment, which is acquisition and operation of the multifamily communities
owned.

16. Subsequent Events

Dispositions.

On January 15, 2009, Mid-America sold the Woodstream
apartments, a 304-unit community in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Acquisitions.

On January 16, 2009, Mid-America acquired one of the 15
remaining units of the Village Oaks apartments located in Temple Terrace,
Florida.

F-34

17. Selected Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)

Mid-America Apartment Communities,
Inc.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

(Dollars in thousands except per
share data)

F-35

Some of the
financial data in the tables above differ from the values as originally reported
in their respective Form 10-Qs or Form 10-Ks due to the reclassification of
certain property level bonuses from property management expenses to property
operating expenses, as well as the reclassification of certain properties as
discontinued operations.

A reconciliation of the affected
financial data is below (in thousands):

Values as

Property

Held

Values as

Originally

Bonus

For

Reported at

Reported

Reclass

Sale

December 31, 2008

First Quarter 2007

Total operating
    revenues

$

84,991

$

—

$

(1,364

)

$

83,627

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

21,669


(294

)

21,378

Interest
      expense

(16,014

)

—


(15,814

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale


(3

)



Second Quarter 2007

Total
      operating revenues

86,779

—

(1,439

)

85,340

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

22,262


(424

)

21,842

Interest
      expense

(16,034

)

—


(15,828

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale


(4

)



Third Quarter 2007

Total
      operating revenues

90,164

—

(1,419

)

88,745

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

24,220

—

(393

)

23,827

Interest
      expense

(16,147

)

—


(15,939

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale

(5

)

—



Fourth Quarter 2007

Total
      operating revenues

91,023

—

(1,389

)

89,634

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

24,894

—

(393

)

24,501

Interest
      expense

(16,257

)

—


(16,058

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale


—



First Quarter 2008

Total
      operating revenues

92,144

—

(1,395

)

90,749

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

25,082

—

(329

)

24,753

Interest
      expense

(16,334

)

—


(16,205

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale

—

—



Second Quarter 2008

Total
      operating revenues

92,834

—

(1,398

)

91,436

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

24,516

—

(258

)

24,258

Interest
      expense

(15,145

)

—


(15,035

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale

—

—



Third Quarter 2008

Total
      operating revenues

93,473

—


93,792

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

22,887

—


23,046

Interest
      expense

(15,004

)

—

(35

)

(15,039

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale


—

(124

)


Fourth Quarter 2008

(1)

Income from
      continuing operations before non-operating items

23,697

—


23,840

Interest
      expense

(15,654

)

—

(77

)

(15,731

)

Discontinued
      operations:

Income (loss)
      from discontinued operations before gain (loss) on sale


—

(66

)


____________________

(1)

As
      originally reported in the registrant's Form 8-K filed on February 5,
      2009. In the fourth quarter of 2008, a property which had previously been
      classified as held for sale was removed from such classification. As a
      result of the adjustments to remove the property from discontinued
      operations, some line item values not affecting net income were
      misadjusted between the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The adjustment
      did not impact the full year 2008 values.

F-36

Mid-

America

Apartment

Communities,

Inc.

Schedule

III

Real Estate and

Accumulated

Depreciation

December

31, 2008

(Dollars

in

thousands)

Gross Amount

Cost Capitalized

carried at

Life
      used

subsequent to

December 31,

to
      compute

Initial Cost

Acquisition

2008 (21)

depreciation

Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

in
      latest

and

and

and

Accumulated

Date
      of

income

Property

Location

Encumbrances

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Total

Depreciation

Net

Construction

statement (22)

Eagle Ridge

Birmingham, AL

—

(1)

$


$

7,667

$

—

$

2,400

$


$

10,067

$

10,918

$

(3,793

)

$

7,125


1 - 40

Abbington
      Place

Huntsville,
      AL

—

(1)


4,724

—

1,635


6,359

6,883

(2,718

)

4,165


1 -

Paddock Club Huntsville

Huntsville, AL

—

(1)


10,152


10,743

1,739

20,895

22,634

(6,970

)

15,664

1989/98

1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Montgomery

Montgomery,
      AL

—

(1)


13,190

—



14,175

15,140

(4,296

)

10,844


1 -

Calais Forest

Little Rock, AR

—

(1)

1,026

9,244

—

4,681

1,026

13,925

14,951

(6,182

)

8,769


1 - 40

Napa
      Valley

Little Rock,
      AR

—

(1)


8,642

—

2,209


10,851

11,811

(4,876

)

6,935


1 -

Westside Creek I & II

Little Rock, AR

—

(1)

1,270

11,463


2,854

1,271

14,317

15,588

(5,922

)

9,666

1984/86

1 - 40

Edge at Lyon's
      Gate

Phoenix,
      AZ

—

7,901

27,577

—


7,901

27,639

35,540

(548

)

34,992


1 -

Talus Ranch

Phoenix, AZ

—

12,741

49,636

—


12,741

50,003

62,744

(5,605

)

57,139


1 - 40

Tiffany
      Oaks

Altamonte
      Springs, FL

—

(1)

1,024

9,219

—

4,399

1,024

13,618

14,642

(5,907

)

8,735


1 -

Marsh Oaks

Atlantic Beach, FL

—

(1)


2,829

—

1,431


4,260

4,504

(2,203

)

2,301


1 - 40

Indigo
      Point

Brandon,
      FL

—

(4)

1,167

10,500

—

2,493

1,167

12,993

14,160

(4,221

)

9,939


1 -

Paddock Club Brandon

Brandon, FL

—

(2)

2,896

26,111

—

1,679

2,896

27,790

30,686

(10,206

)

20,480

1997/99

1 - 40

Preserve at
      Coral Square

Coral Springs,
      FL

—

(7)

9,600

41,206

—

2,200

9,600

43,406

53,006

(7,560

)

45,446


1 -

Anatole

Daytona Beach, FL

7,000

(10)

1,227

5,879

—

2,338

1,227

8,217

9,444

(3,837

)

5,607


1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Gainesville

Gainesville,
      FL

—

(2)

1,800

15,879

—


1,800

16,618

18,418

(4,855

)

13,563


1 -

Cooper's Hawk

Jacksonville, FL

—

(2)


7,500

—

1,980


9,480

10,334

(4,733

)

5,601


1 - 40

Hunter's Ridge
      at Deerwood

Jacksonville,
      FL

—

(8)

1,533

13,835

—

4,130

1,533

17,965

19,498

(6,916

)

12,582


1 -

Lakeside

Jacksonville, FL

—

(1)

1,431

12,883

(1

)

6,233

1,430

19,116

20,546

(9,890

)

10,656


1 - 40

Lighthouse at
      Fleming Island

Jacksonville,
      FL

—

(1)

4,047

36,431

—

1,523

4,047

37,954

42,001

(7,995

)

34,006


1 -

Paddock Club Jacksonville

Jacksonville, FL

—

(1)

2,294

20,750

(2

)

1,869

2,292

22,619

24,911

(8,590

)

16,321

1989/96

1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Mandarin

Jacksonville,
      FL

—

(2)

1,410

14,967


1,098

1,411

16,065

17,476

(4,582

)

12,894


1 -

St. Augustine

Jacksonville, FL

13,235

(20)

2,858

6,475

(1

)

17,365

2,857

23,840

26,697

(5,853

)

20,844


1 - 40

Woodbridge at
      the Lake

Jacksonville,
      FL

—

(2)


5,804

—

3,666


9,470

10,115

(4,657

)

5,458


1 -

Woodhollow

Jacksonville, FL

—

(1)

1,686

15,179

(8

)

5,282

1,678

20,461

22,139

(9,279

)

12,860


1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Lakeland

Lakeland,
      FL

—

(1)

2,254

20,452

(1,033

)

5,235

1,221

25,687

26,908

(9,843

)

17,065

1988/90

1 -

Savannahs at James Landing

Melbourne, FL

—

(2)


7,868

—

4,001


11,869

12,451

(5,734

)

6,717


1 - 40

Paddock Park
      Ocala

Ocala,
    FL

6,805

(2)(3)

2,284

21,970

—

2,795

2,284

24,765

27,049

(10,022

)

17,027

1986/88

1 -

Paddock Club Panama City

Panama City, FL

—

(2)


14,276

(5

)

1,463


15,739

16,632

(5,216

)

11,416


1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Tallahassee

Tallahassee,
      FL

—

(2)


4,805


10,840

1,480

15,645

17,125

(6,127

)

10,998

1990/95

1 -

Belmere

Tampa, FL

—

(1)


7,667


3,708


11,375

12,227

(5,934

)

6,293


1 - 40

Links at
      Carrollwood

Tampa,
    FL

—

(1)


7,355


3,895


11,250

12,177

(4,494

)

7,683


1 -

Village Oaks

Tampa, FL

—

2,714

19,137

—


2,714

19,154

21,868

(332

)

21,536


1 - 40

High
    Ridge

Athens,
    GA

—

(1)


7,958

—

1,698


9,656

10,540

(3,676

)

6,864


1 -

Sanctuary at Oglethorpe

Atlanta, GA

23,500

6,875

31,859

—


6,875

32,099

38,974

(617

)

38,357


1 - 40

Bradford
      Pointe

Augusta,
      GA

—

(5)


6,949

—

1,610


8,559

9,331

(3,500

)

5,831


1 -

Shenandoah Ridge

Augusta, GA

—

(1)


5,850


3,691


9,541

10,199

(5,074

)

5,125


1 - 40

Westbury
      Creek

Augusta,
      GA

3,480

(15)


3,626

—

1,015


4,641

5,041

(1,977

)

3,064


1 -

Fountain Lake

Brunswick, GA

—

(5)


4,551

—

1,630


6,181

6,683

(2,669

)

4,014


1 - 40

Park
    Walk

College Park,
      GA

—

(1)


4,859

—



5,838

6,374

(2,363

)

4,011


1 -

Whisperwood

Columbus, GA

—

(1)

4,290

42,722

(4

)

10,292

4,286

53,014

57,300

(20,269

)

37,031

1980/82/84/86/98

1 - 40

Willow
      Creek

Columbus,
      GA

—

(1)


5,523

—

3,267


8,790

9,404

(3,743

)

5,661

1971/77

1 -

Terraces at Fieldstone

Conyers, GA

—

(1)

1,284

15,819

—


1,284

16,705

17,989

(4,632

)

13,357


1 - 40

Prescott

Duluth,
    GA

—

(6)

3,840

24,876

—


3,840

25,643

29,483

(4,831

)

24,652


1 -

Lanier

Gainesville, GA

18,984

3,560

23,248

—


3,560

24,172

27,732

(3,963

)

23,769


1 - 40

Lake
    Club

Gainesville,
      GA

—

(6)

3,150

18,997

—


3,150

19,359

22,509

(3,194

)

19,315


1 -

Whispering Pines

LaGrange, GA

—

(5)


7,470

(2

)

1,901


9,371

10,192

(3,894

)

6,298

1982/84

1 - 40

Westbury
      Springs

Lilburn,
      GA

—

(1)


6,038

—

1,568


7,606

8,271

(3,141

)

5,130


1 -

Austin Chase

Macon, GA

—

(8)

1,409

12,687

—

1,404

1,409

14,091

15,500

(4,932

)

10,568


1 - 40

The
    Vistas

Macon,
    GA

—

(1)


5,403

—

1,323


6,726

7,321

(2,814

)

4,507


1 -

Walden Run

McDonough, GA

—

(1)

1,281

11,935

—


1,281

12,656

13,937

(2,769

)

11,168


1 - 40

Georgetown
      Grove

Savannah,
      GA

—

1,288

11,579

—

1,083

1,288

12,662

13,950

(4,776

)

9,174


1 -

Oaks at Wilmington Island

Savannah, GA

—

(7)

2,910

26,337

—


2,910

27,228

30,138

(3,056

)

27,082


1 - 40

Wildwood

Thomasville,
      GA

—

(1)


3,971


5,013


8,984

9,793

(3,745

)

6,048

1980/84

1 -

F-37

Gross Amount

Cost Capitalized

carried at

Life
      used

subsequent to

December 31,

to
      compute

Initial Cost

Acquisition

2008 (21)

depreciation

Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

in
      latest

and

and

and

Accumulated

Date
      of

income

Property

Location

Encumbrances

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Total

Depreciation

Net

Construction

statement (22)

Hidden Lake

Union City, GA

—

(1)

1,296

11,715

—

3,029

1,296

14,744

16,040

(5,880

)

10,160

1985/87

1 - 40

Three
    Oaks

Valdosta,
      GA

—

(1)


4,188


6,127


10,315

11,236

(4,332

)

6,904

1983/84

1 -

Huntington Chase

Warner Robins, GA

—

1,160

10,437

—

1,076

1,160

11,513

12,673

(3,667

)

9,006


1 - 40

Southland
      Station

Warner Robins,
      GA

—

(1)

1,470

13,284

—

2,250

1,470

15,534

17,004

(6,437

)

10,567

1987/90

1 -

Terraces at Townelake

Woodstock, GA

—

(1)

1,331

11,918

1,688

18,701

3,019

30,619

33,638

(10,196

)

23,442


1 - 40

Fairways at
      Hartland

Bowling Green,
      KY

—

(1)

1,038

9,342

—

2,252

1,038

11,594

12,632

(4,682

)

7,950


1 -

Paddock Club Florence

Florence, KY

9,378

1,209

10,969

—

2,058

1,209

13,027

14,236

(5,045

)

9,191


1 - 40

Grand Reserve
      Lexington

Lexington,
      KY

—

(1)

2,024

31,525

—


2,024

31,814

33,838

(8,169

)

25,669


1 -

Lakepointe

Lexington, KY

—

(1)


3,699

—

1,446


5,145

5,556

(2,670

)

2,886


1 - 40

Mansion,
      The

Lexington,
      KY

—

(1)


6,242

—

2,115


8,357

9,051

(4,207

)

4,844


1 -

Village, The

Lexington, KY

—

(1)


8,097

—

3,020


11,117

12,017

(5,683

)

6,334


1 - 40

Stonemill
      Village

Louisville,
      KY

—

(1)

1,169

10,518

—

6,785

1,169

17,303

18,472

(7,674

)

10,798


1 -

Crosswinds

Jackson, MS

—

(1)

1,535

13,826

—

3,146

1,535

16,972

18,507

(7,688

)

10,819

1988/90

1 - 40

Pear
      Orchard

Jackson,
      MS

—

(1)

1,352

12,168

(1

)

4,474

1,351

16,642

17,993

(8,281

)

9,712


1 -

Reflection Pointe

Jackson, MS

5,880

(11)


8,770


4,209


12,979

13,827

(6,383

)

7,444


1 - 40

Lakeshore
      Landing

Ridgeland,
      MS

—

(1)


6,470

—



7,252

7,928

(1,615

)

6,313


1 -

Savannah Creek

Southaven, MS

—

(1)


7,013

—

2,186


9,199

9,977

(4,292

)

5,685


1 - 40

Sutton
      Place

Southaven,
      MS

—

(1)


8,053

—

2,465


10,518

11,412

(4,906

)

6,506


1 -

Hermitage at Beechtree

Cary, NC

—

(1)


8,099

—

3,028


11,127

12,027

(4,480

)

7,547


1 - 40

Waterford
      Forest

Cary,
    NC

—

(6)

4,000

20,957

—


4,000

21,759

25,759

(3,437

)

22,322


1 -

Preserve at Brier Creek

Raleigh, NC

—

(1)

5,850

22,695

(19

)

21,586

5,831

44,281

50,112

(3,743

)

46,369

2002/07

1 - 40

Providence at
      Brier Creek

Raleigh,
      NC

—

4,695

30,052

—


4,695

30,147

34,842

(1,183

)

33,659


1 -

Corners, The

Winston-Salem, NC

—

(2)


6,165

—

1,956


8,121

8,806

(4,328

)

4,478


1 - 40

Fairways at
      Royal Oak

Cincinnati,
      OH

—

(1)


7,335

(12

)

2,076


9,411

10,213

(4,709

)

5,504


1 -

Colony at South Park

Aiken, SC

—

(1)


8,005

—



8,701

9,563

(1,876

)

7,687

1989/91

1 - 40

Woodwinds

Aiken,
    SC

—

(1)


4,540

—

1,356


5,896

6,399

(2,493

)

3,906


1 -

Tanglewood

Anderson, SC

—

(1)


3,853

—

2,114


5,967

6,394

(3,065

)

3,329


1 - 40

Fairways,
      The

Columbia,
      SC

7,735

(12)


8,207

—

1,659


9,866

10,776

(4,845

)

5,931


1 -

Paddock Club Columbia

Columbia, SC

—

(1)

1,840

16,560

—

2,345

1,840

18,905

20,745

(7,514

)

13,231

1989/95

1 - 40

Highland
      Ridge

Greenville,
      SC

—

(1)


4,337

—

1,624


5,961

6,443

(2,598

)

3,845


1 -

Howell Commons

Greenville, SC

—

(1)

1,304

11,740

—

2,959

1,304

14,699

16,003

(6,122

)

9,881

1986/88

1 - 40

Paddock Club
      Greenville

Greenville,
      SC

—

(1)

1,200

10,800

—

1,331

1,200

12,131

13,331

(4,748

)

8,583


1 -

Park Haywood

Greenville, SC

—

(1)


2,925


3,879


6,804

7,164

(3,558

)

3,606


1 - 40

Spring
      Creek

Greenville,
      SC

—

(1)


5,374

(14

)

2,084


7,458

8,041

(3,522

)

4,519


1 -

Runaway Bay

Mt. Pleasant, SC

8,365

(9)

1,085

7,269

—

4,263

1,085

11,532

12,617

(5,271

)

7,346


1 - 40

Park
    Place

Spartanburg,
      SC

—

(1)


6,504

—

2,019


8,523

9,246

(3,609

)

5,637


1 -

Farmington Village

Summerville, SC

15,200

2,800

26,947

—


2,800

27,048

29,848

(1,768

)

28,080


1 - 40

Hamilton
      Pointe

Chattanooga,
      TN

—

(1)

1,131

10,861

—


1,131

11,691

12,822

(2,726

)

10,096


1 -

Hidden Creek

Chattanooga, TN

—

(1)


9,201

—



9,972

10,944

(2,338

)

8,606


1 - 40

Steeplechase

Chattanooga,
      TN

—

(1)


1,957

—

2,357


4,314

4,531

(2,296

)

2,235


1 -

Windridge

Chattanooga, TN

5,465

(16)


7,416

—

2,234


9,650

10,467

(3,739

)

6,728


1 - 40

Oaks,
    The

Jackson,
      TN

—

(1)


1,594


1,550


3,144

3,333

(1,683

)

1,650


1 -

Post House Jackson

Jackson, TN

5,095


5,078

—

3,290


8,368

8,811

(3,517

)

5,294


1 - 40

Post House
      North

Jackson,
      TN

3,375

(13)


4,299

(57

)

1,940


6,239

6,563

(3,142

)

3,421


1 -

Bradford Chase

Jackson, TN

—

(1)


4,711

—

1,398


6,109

6,632

(3,067

)

3,565


1 - 40

Woods at Post
      House

Jackson,
      TN

4,801


6,839

—

1,715


8,554

8,794

(4,571

)

4,223


1 -

Cedar Mill

Memphis, TN

—

(1)


8,023

—

2,360


10,383

11,207

(2,348

)

8,859

1973/86

1 - 40

Greenbrook

Memphis,
      TN

—

(4)

2,100

24,468


19,631

2,125

44,099

46,224

(23,130

)

23,094

1974/78/83/86

1 -

Kirby Station

Memphis, TN

—

(1)

1,148

10,337

—

6,308

1,148

16,645

17,793

(6,686

)

11,107


1 - 40

Lincoln on the
      Green

Memphis,
      TN

—

(1)

1,498

20,483

—

10,863

1,498

31,346

32,844

(13,503

)

19,341

1988/98

1 -

Park Estate

Memphis, TN

—

(4)


1,141

—

3,698


4,839

5,017

(3,080

)

1,937


1 - 40

Reserve at
      Dexter Lake

Memphis,
      TN

—

(5)

1,260

16,043

2,147

33,441

3,407

49,484

52,891

(11,618

)

41,273

1999/01

1 -

Paddock Club Murfreesboro

Murfreesboro, TN

—

(1)


14,774

—



15,627

16,542

(4,389

)

12,153


1 - 40

Brentwood
      Downs

Nashville,
      TN

—

(1)

1,193

10,739

(2

)

3,335

1,191

14,074

15,265

(6,647

)

8,618


1 -

Grand View Nashville

Nashville, TN

—

(1)

2,963

33,673

—

1,912

2,963

35,585

38,548

(8,555

)

29,993


1 - 40

Monthaven
      Park

Nashville,
      TN

—

(7)

2,736

29,556

—

2,193

2,736

31,749

34,485

(6,107

)

28,378

1999/01

1 -

Park at Hermitage

Nashville, TN

6,645

(17)

1,524

14,800

—

4,534

1,524

19,334

20,858

(9,475

)

11,383


1 - 40

Northwood

Arlington,
      TX

—

(2)


8,278

—



8,928

9,814

(2,064

)

7,750


1 -

Balcones Woods

Austin, TX

—

(2)

1,598

14,398

—

7,898

1,598

22,296

23,894

(8,636

)

15,258


1 - 40

Grand Reserve at
      Sunset Valley

Austin,
    TX

—

(7)

3,150

11,868

—

1,174

3,150

13,042

16,192

(2,337

)

13,855


1 -

F-38

Gross Amount

Cost Capitalized

carried at

Life
      used

subsequent to

December 31,

to
      compute

Initial Cost

Acquisition

2008 (21)

depreciation

Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

in
      latest

and

and

and

Accumulated

Date
      of

income

Property

Location

Encumbrances

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Land

Fixtures

Total

Depreciation

Net

Construction

statement (22)

Silverado

Austin, TX

—

(7)

2,900

24,810

—


2,900

25,333

28,233

(3,143

)

25,090


1 - 40

Stassney
      Woods

Austin,
    TX

4,050

(18)

1,621

7,501

—

4,091

1,621

11,592

13,213

(5,809

)

7,404


1 -

Travis Station

Austin, TX

3,585

(19)

2,282

6,169

(1

)

3,634

2,281

9,803

12,084

(4,658

)

7,426


1 - 40

Woods,
    The

Austin,
    TX

—

(2)

1,405

13,083

—

1,865

1,405

14,948

16,353

(3,233

)

13,120


1 -

Celery Stalk

Dallas, TX

—

(6)

1,463

13,165

(1

)

5,121

1,462

18,286

19,748

(9,654

)

10,094


1 - 40

Courtyards at
      Campbell

Dallas,
    TX

—

(2)


8,893

—

2,310


11,203

12,191

(4,244

)

7,947


1 -

Deer Run

Dallas, TX

—

(2)

1,252

11,271

—

2,911

1,252

14,182

15,434

(5,218

)

10,216


1 - 40

Grand
      Courtyard

Dallas,
    TX

—

(7)

2,730

23,219

—


2,730

24,019

26,749

(3,087

)

23,662


1 -

Lodge at Timberglen

Dallas, TX

—

(6)


7,422

(1

)

3,926


11,348

12,172

(5,934

)

6,238


1 - 40

Watermark

Dallas,
    TX

—

(6)


14,839

—



15,224

16,184

(2,809

)

13,375


1 -

Legacy Pines

Houston, TX

—

(2)

2,157

19,491

(15

)

1,845

2,142

21,336

23,478

(4,599

)

18,879


1 - 40

Reserve at
      Woodwind Lakes

Houston,
      TX

14,820

1,968

20,718

—

1,123

1,968

21,841

23,809

(2,469

)

21,340


1 -

Park Place (Houston)

Houston, TX

—

2,061

16,386

—

1,263

2,061

17,649

19,710

(1,453

)

18,257


1 - 40

Ranchstone

Houston,
      TX

—

(7)

1,480

15,352

—


1,480

16,320

17,800

(1,378

)

16,422


1 -

Cascade at Fall Creek

Humble, TX

—

3,230

20,308

—


3,230

20,392

23,622

(1,078

)

22,544


1 - 40

Chalet at Fall
      Creek

Humble,
    TX

—

(7)

2,755

20,820

—


2,755

21,029

23,784

(1,800

)

21,984


1 -

Westborough Crossing

Katy, TX

—

(6)


6,091

(1

)

2,695


8,786

9,462

(4,455

)

5,007


1 - 40

Kenwood
      Club

Katy,
    TX

—

(2)

1,002

17,288

—


1,002

18,287

19,289

(5,359

)

13,930


1 -

Lane at Towne Crossing

Mesquite, TX

—

(2)

1,311

12,254

(8

)

1,177

1,303

13,431

14,734

(3,054

)

11,680


1 - 40

Highwood

Plano,
    TX

—

(4)


7,783

—

2,562


10,345

11,209

(3,873

)

7,336


1 -

Los Rios Park

Plano, TX

—

(2)

3,273

29,483

—

1,369

3,273

30,852

34,125

(6,539

)

27,586


1 - 40

Boulder
      Ridge

Roanoke,
      TX

—

(2)

3,382

27,930

—

2,314

3,382

30,244

33,626

(4,638

)

28,988


1 -

Copper Ridge

Roanoke, TX

—

4,166

—

—

16,632

4,166

16,632

20,798

(79

)

20,719


1 - 40

Cypresswood
      Court

Spring,
    TX

—

(6)


5,190

(1

)

2,098


7,288

7,864

(3,798

)

4,066


1 -

Villages at Kirkwood

Stafford, TX

—

(7)

1,918

16,358

—


1,918

17,317

19,235

(3,071

)

16,164


1 - 40

Green Tree
      Place

Woodlands,
      TX

—

(6)


4,850

—

1,893


6,743

7,282

(3,440

)

3,842


1 -

Township

Hampton, VA

10,800

(14)

1,509

8,189

—

6,690

1,509

14,879

16,388

(5,321

)

11,067


1 - 40

Total Properties

$

234,839

$

1,823,527

$

5,587

$

465,344

$

240,426

$

2,288,871

$

2,529,297

$

(694,054

)

$

1,835,243

Land Held for Future Developments

Various

$

1,306

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

1,306

$

—

$

1,306

$

—

$

1,306

N/A

N/A

Commercial
      Properties

Various

—

2,769

—

12,612

—

15,381

15,381

(7,423

)

7,958

Various

1 -

Total Other

$

1,306

$

2,769

$

—

$

12,612

$

1,306

$

15,381

$

16,687

$

(7,423

)

$

9,264

Total Real Estate Assets, net of Joint Ventures

$

236,145

$

1,826,296

$

5,587

$

477,956

$

241,732

$

2,304,252

$

2,545,984

$

(701,477

)

$

1,844,507

____________________

F-39

Mid-America Apartment Communities,
Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate
Investments and Accumulated Depreciation

A summary
of activity for real estate investments and accumulated depreciation is as
follows:

Year Ended December
      31,

Dollars
      in thousands




Real estate investments:

Balance at beginning of
      year

$

2,342,962

$

2,214,814

$

1,983,671

Acquisitions

156,305

88,601

196,523

Improvement
      and development

84,550

61,004

51,807

Assets held
      for sale

(34,772

)

—

(14,597

)

Disposition
      of real estate assets

(1)

(3,061

)

(21,457

)

(2,590

)

Balance at end of year

$

2,545,984

$

2,342,962

$

2,214,814

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at
      beginning of year

$

616,364

$

543,802

$

473,421

Depreciation

89,401

92,200

78,221

Assets held
      for sale

(10,768

)

—

(7,180

)

Disposition
      of real estate assets

(1)

(943

)

(19,638

)

(660

)

Balance at end of year

$

694,054

$

616,364

$

543,802

The
Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006
includes accumulated depreciation of $7,423, $6,213, and $5,191 respectively, in
the caption "Commercial properties, net".

(1) Includes assets sold, casualty
losses, and removal of certain fully depreciated assets.

See accompanying reports of independent
registered public accounting firms.

F-40