
10-K
FORM 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                       
                                   FORM 10-K
                                       
               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                       
     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
         DECEMBER 31, 1997                                   0-11757


                      J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

               ARKANSAS                                      71-0335111
   (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                        (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
    INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                        IDENTIFICATION NO.)

          615 J.B. HUNT CORPORATE DRIVE                         72745
                LOWELL, ARKANSAS                              (ZIP CODE)
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

              REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                                (501) 820-0000

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                     NONE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                         COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                                       
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO THE
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR AT LEAST THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                         YES  X     NO 
                             ---       -----
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K (SS229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL
NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR
INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K
OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.  [ ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF 17,434,979 SHARES OF THE REGISTRANT'S $.01 PAR
VALUE COMMON STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF FEBRUARY 27,
1998 WAS  $466,385,688 (BASED UPON $26.75 PER SHARE BEING THE CLOSING SALE
PRICE ON THAT DATE, AS REPORTED BY NASDAQ). IN MAKING THIS CALCULATION, THE
ISSUER HAS ASSUMED, WITHOUT ADMITTING FOR ANY PURPOSE, THAT ALL EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT, AND NO OTHER PERSONS, ARE AFFILIATES.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF EACH OF THE REGISTRANT'S CLASSES OF COMMON
                 STOCK, AS OF FEBRUARY 27, 1998:  35,653,708.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THE NOTICE AND PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1998 ANNUAL
            STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING TO BE HELD APRIL 16, 1998 PART II.



PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

     J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries ("JBH" or the "Company"), is a diversified transportation 
services and logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the U.S. 
Department of Transportation ("DOT") and various state regulatory agencies. 
JBH is an Arkansas holding company incorporated on August 10, 1961. Through 
its subsidiaries JBH transports primarily full-load containerizable freight 
throughout the continental United States and portions of Canada and Mexico. 
The Company also manages or provides logistics and transportation-related 
services which may utilize JBH equipment and employees, or may employ 
equipment and services provided by unrelated third parties in the 
transportation industry.

     JBH has various operating authorities granted by the DOT and state 
regulatory agencies. The Company may transport any type of freight (except 
certain types of explosives) from any point in the contiguous United States 
to any other point in the contiguous United States, over any route selected 
by the Company. The Company also has certain intrastate authorities, allowing 
pick-up and delivery within those states. Federal legislation was enacted 
effective January 1, 1995 which preempted each state's right to limit entry 
into intrastate operations.  JBH transports a wide range of products 
including automotive parts, department store merchandise, paper and wood 
products, food and beverages, plastics, chemicals and manufacturing materials 
and supplies.

     JBH was granted certain Canadian authority initially in 1988 and 
currently transports freight to and from all points in the continental United 
States to Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario.  The Company has authorization
to operate directly in all the Canadian provinces, but to date has served 
limited points in Canada primarily through interchange operations with 
Canadian motor carriers. The Company has provided transportation services to 
and from Mexico since 1989 through interchange operations with various Mexican
motor carriers. A joint venture agreement with Transportacion Maritima 
Mexicana, the largest transportation company in Mexico, was signed in 1992.

     In 1990, JBH initiated a new type of truck-load ("T/L") service with the 
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (formally Santa Fe, now 
Burlington Northern Santa Fe).  This new method of operating initially 
involved transporting 48 foot or 53 foot trailers by rail utilizing 
traditional trailer-on-flatcar ("TOFC") medium for a portion of the line-haul 
move.  In 1993, rail operations were expanded to utilize newly-designed 
high-cube containers which could be separated from the chassis and 
double-stacked ("COFC") on rail cars to provide improved productivity.  Since 
this initial agreement, intermodal operations have grown to include arrangements
with nine railroads.  Operating revenues from intermodal operations totaled 
$576 million in 1997.  Substantially all of the freight carried under rail 
arrangements receives priority space on trains and preferential loading and 
unloading at rail facilities.

     The Company commenced offering formal transportation logistics services in
1992.  Logistics services refer to an arrangement whereby a shipper may
outsource a substantial portion of or their entire distribution and
transportation process to one organization.  JBH Logistics provides a range
of comprehensive transportation and management services including experienced
professional managers, information and optimization technology and the actual
design or redesign of system solutions.  Once a logistics arrangement is in
place, JBH Logistics may utilize Company owned and controlled transportation
equipment or third-party equipment and employees or a combination of the two
to meet the customer's service requirements.  Dedicated equipment services
are similar to logistics services and typically involve specifically assigned
revenue equipment, drivers, and management to service customers that wish to
augment or outsource their private fleet.  Operating revenues were $405
million for the logistics and dedicated contract service businesses in 1997.

     In early 1996, the Company embarked upon a strategy to concentrate its
efforts on the two service offerings of dry-van T/L (including intermodal)
and logistics services (including dedicated contract).  In accordance with
that strategy, assets and operations of other service offerings were
subsequently sold.  During 1996, operations involved in the transportation of
small parcels and hazardous commodities were sold.  A sale of flatbed
operations in July of 1997 completed this initiative.  The Company views the
growth opportunity and potential to integrate solutions associated with its
two-part service offering strategy as a key to driving down costs and
providing customers with quality service.





MARKETING AND OPERATIONS

     The truckload market has historically been a lower price, lower service 
market when compared to the less-than-truckload ("LTL") segment. The Company 
has opted to provide a premium service and charge compensating rates rather 
than compete primarily on the basis of price.  The Company's business is well 
diversified and no one customer accounted for more than 6% of revenues during 
1997 or 1996. Marketing efforts include significant focus on the diversified 
group of "Fortune 500" customers. A broad geographic dispersion and a good 
balance in the type of industries served allow JBH some protection from major 
seasonal fluctuations. However, consistent with the T/L industry in general, 
freight is typically stronger in the second half of the year with peak months 
being August, September and October. In addition, demand for services is 
usually strong at the end of the first two calendar quarters (i.e., March and 
June). Revenue is also affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is 
directly related to available working days of shippers.

     The Company markets door-to-door T/L service through its nationwide 
marketing network. Services involving intermodal transportation mediums are 
billed by JBH and all inquiries, claims and other customer contact are 
handled by the Company.  Certain marketing and sales functions are assigned 
to each of the primary businesses of dry-van, logistics management and 
dedicated equipment.  However, marketing strategy and national account 
service coordination is managed at the corporate level.

PERSONNEL

     At December 31, 1997, JBH employed approximately 11,780 people, 
including 8,430 drivers.  Historically the T/L transportation industry and 
the Company have experienced shortages of qualified drivers.  In addition, 
driver turnover rates at JBH and other T/L carriers had exceeded 100%.  In 
September of 1996, a new compensation program was announced for the 
approximate 3,500 over-the-road van drivers.  This comprehensive package, 
which was effective February 25, 1997, included an average 33% increase in 
wages for this group of employees.  This program was designed to attract and 
retain a professional and experienced work force capable of delivering a high 
level of customer service.  As anticipated, this increase in driver wages and 
benefits was partially offset by lower driver recruiting and training 
expense, reduced accident costs and better equipment utilization.  The 
average driver turnover in the van business was 45% in 1997, down from 86% in 
1996.  Drivers are frequently designated as local, regional, regular or 
dedicated and over-the-road and typically compensated on a rate-per-mile 
basis, a rate per week basis or a combination of factors.  JBH also employed 
approximately 2,180 office personnel and 1,170 mechanics at December 31, 
1997.  No employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements and 
management believes that its relationship with all of its employees is 
excellent.

REVENUE EQUIPMENT

     At December 31, 1997, JBH owned approximately 7,510 tractors and operated
10,450 trailers and 19,940 specially designed containers.  JBH believes that 
modern, late-model, clean equipment differentiates quality customer service, 
increases equipment utilization and reduces maintenance costs and downtime. 
Accordingly, the average age of the van tractor and trailing fleet was 
approximately two years and three years, respectively, at December 31, 1997. 
In 1993, the Company commenced receiving a newly-designed container and 
chassis combination that could be transported over the road by truck and also 
be moved by rail or ship.  The container and chassis may be transported as a 
single unit by rail (TOFC) or the container can be separated from the chassis 
and double-stacked (COFC) on rail cars for improved productivity.  Containers 
comprised approximately 70% of the van trailing fleet at December 31, 1997. 
The composition of the dedicated contract fleet varies with specific customer 
service requirements.  All JBH revenue equipment is maintained in accordance 
with a specific maintenance program primarily based on age and miles traveled.

COMPETITION

     JBH is the largest publicly held T/L carrier in the United States. It 
competes primarily with other irregular route, T/L common carriers. LTL 
common carriers and private carriers generally provide limited competition 
for T/L carriers. JBH is one of a few carriers offering nationwide logistics 
management and dedicated revenue equipment services. Although a number of 
carriers may provide competition on a regional basis, only a limited number of





companies represent competition in all markets. The extensive rail network
developed in conjunction with the various railroads also allows the Company
the opportunity to differentiate its services in the marketplace.

REGULATION

     Prior to December of 1995, the Company's operations in interstate 
commerce were regulated by the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC").  
Commencing in January of 1996, the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination 
Act closed the ICC and transferred all remaining regulatory responsibilities 
to a new Surface Transportation Board and to the Federal Highway Administration.
Motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the 
United States DOT governing interstate operation. Such matters as weight and 
dimension of equipment and commercial driver's licensing are also subject to 
federal and state regulations. A federal requirement that all drivers obtain 
a commercial driver's license became effective in April 1992.

     The federal Motor Carrier Act of 1980 was the start of a program to
increase competition among motor carriers and limit the level of regulation
in the industry (sometimes referred to as "deregulation"). The Motor Carrier
Act of 1980 enabled applicants to obtain operating authority more easily and
allowed interstate motor carriers, such as the Company, to change their rates
by a certain percentage per year without approval. The new law also allowed
for the removal of many route and commodity restrictions regarding the
transportation of freight. As a result of the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, the
Company was able to obtain unlimited authority to carry general commodities
throughout the 48 contiguous states. Effective January 1, 1995, the federal
government issued guidelines which allow motor carriers more flexibility in
intrastate operations. Although this reduced level of state regulation may
increase the level of competition in some regions, the Company believes it
will ultimately benefit from this legislation.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company's corporate headquarters are in Lowell, Arkansas. A 150,000-
square-foot building was constructed and occupied in September 1990. The
building is situated on a 127-acre tract of land.

     In addition to the corporate headquarters, the Company owns a separate 
40-acre tract in Lowell, Arkansas with three separate buildings totaling 
18,000 square feet of office space and 80,000 square feet of maintenance and 
warehouse space. These buildings serve as the Lowell operations terminal, 
tractor and trailer maintenance facilities and additional administrative 
offices.  A new terminal and maintenance facility was constructed and 
occupied in Chicago, Illinois during 1996.

A summary of the Company's principal facilities follows:



In addition to the above facilities, the Company leases numerous small 
offices and trailer parking yards in various locations throughout the country.





ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is involved in certain claims and pending litigation arising 
from the normal conduct of business.  Based on the present knowledge of the 
facts and, in certain cases, opinions of outside counsel, management believes 
the resolution of claims and pending litigation will not have a material 
adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the 
Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1997 to a vote of
security holders.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is set
forth below:



(1)  Mr. Logan retired from United Parcel Service of America in 1991.  He
     served as a consultant to the Company in 1995 and 1996 and was named Chief
     Information Officer in January of 1997.

(2)  Mr. Harper joined the Company in 1992 as  Executive Vice President, Special
     Commodities.  In May of 1993, he was named President, Special Commodities.
     In April of 1997, he was named Executive Vice President, Operations.


PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY
HOLDER MATTERS

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market
under the symbol "JBHT."  The following table sets forth, for the calendar
years indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotations National Market System ("NASDAQ").







     On February 27, 1998, the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock as reported by the NASDAQ were $27.75 and $26.63, respectively.
As of February 27, 1998, the Company had 1,749 stockholders of record.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     On January 21, 1998, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend
of $.05 per share, payable on February 17, 1998 to shareholders of record on
February 3, 1998. Although it is the present intention of the Board of
Directors to continue quarterly dividends, payment of future dividends will
depend upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations and
other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The Company declared
and paid cash dividends of $.20 per share in 1997 and 1996.








ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(Dollars in thousands, except revenue and per share amounts)



Percentage of Operating Revenue






ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
FINANCIAL CONDITION

  The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and related footnotes 
appearing in this annual report.

  The following table sets forth certain operating data of the Company.



GENERAL

  J.B. Hunt's 1997 financial and operating results reflect some significant 
management actions which were implemented during 1997 and 1996.  In early 
1996, a decision was made to concentrate company resources on the two core 
transportation service offerings of dry-van truck (including intermodal), and 
logistics (including dedicated contract).  Assets and businesses which did 
not relate to these three types of operations were sold.  Operations which 
transported small parcels and hazardous commodities were sold during 1996 and 
the flatbed business was sold during 1997.  In September of 1996, a new 
over-the-road driver compensation package was announced which was effective 
in February of 1997.  This new program was intended to breakout of a common 
industry practice of hiring and training inexperienced truck drivers and 
experiencing  annual driver turnover rates of approximately 100 percent. This 
new pay and benefit package, which increased annual pay by an average of 33% 
for van over-the-road drivers, was successful in attracting and retaining 
experienced and professional drivers.  Driver turnover in the van business 
was reduced to 45% in 1997 from 86% in 1996.  The increased cost of the new 
pay and benefit package was partially offset, as anticipated, by closing the 
two company-owned driver schools, lower driver hiring expense, reduced 
accident expense and higher equipment utilization.  The ability to hire 
additional van drivers and a strong demand for transportation services 
combined to produce revenue growth of nine percent during the fourth quarter 
of 1997.  This increase in revenue and concurrent down-ward trends in certain 
operating expenses resulted in improved operating income during the fourth 
quarter of 1997.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1997 COMPARED WITH 1996

  The following table sets forth items in the Consolidated Statements of 
Operations as a percentage of operating revenues and the percentage increase 
or decrease of those items as compared with the prior year.


                                       



OPERATING REVENUES

     Operating revenues increased a net of $67 million, or 5%, to $1,554 
million in 1997, from $1,487 in 1996.  The increase in revenue was $137 
million, or 9%, adjusted for the sale of the parcel management, hazardous 
commodities and flatbed businesses.  An analysis of this increase in revenue 
is as follows:



     The Company provides diversified transportation and logistics management 
services which frequently utilize railroad and other third-party revenue 
equipment and employees.  This strategy allows consolidated revenue to grow 
without requiring a comparable increase in the Company's tractor and trailing 
equipment fleet.  The average number of trucks in the fleet declined during 
1997 by approximately 1%, reflecting, in part, the sale of the flatbed 
business.  Dry van truck rates increased by nearly 2% during 1997, while 
intermodal rates declined by approximately 2%.

OPERATING EXPENSES

     Total operating expenses in 1997 increased 6% over 1996.  Operating 
expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenues (operating ratio) 
were 97.2% in 1997, compared with 95.9% in 1996.  The increase in salaries, 
wages and employee benefits was primarily due to the new driver compensation 
package, which was effective in February of 1997.  The significant increase 
in purchased transportation was consistent with trends in recent years and 
reflects payments to railroads and other third-party companies that provided 
transportation services to the Company.  Fuel and fuel taxes expense 
declined, primarily due to lower fuel cost per gallon and improved miles per 
gallon performance.

     The increase in operating supplies and expenses was primarily due to 
higher trailing equipment lease and rental costs.  The decline in insurance 
and claims expense was a result of lower collision frequency, primarily 
related to a decision to limit the speed of the tractor fleet to 59 miles per 
hour and the more experienced driver force attracted by the new compensation 
package.  A related reduction in general and administrative expenses was 
primarily due to reduced driver recruiting and training costs.  Reduced 
insurance related costs and lower driver hiring expenses were two primary 
sources for funding the new driver compensation program.

     As a result of the above, net earnings declined to $11.4 million, or 31 
cents per share in 1997, from $22.1 million, or 58 cents per share in 1996. 
The average number of shares outstanding during 1997 was 36.4 million, down 
from 37.9 million in 1996.  This decrease in shares outstanding was primarily 
due to the Company's acquisition of treasury shares.

                                       

                                       
1996 COMPARED WITH 1995

     The following table sets forth items in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as a percentage of operating revenues and the percentage increase
or decrease of those items as compared with the prior year.



OPERATING REVENUES

     Operating revenues increased $135 million, or 10%, to $1,487 million in 
1996 from $1,352 million in 1995.  An analysis of this increase in revenue is 
as follows:



     Dry van intermodal volume grew rapidly during 1996.  Dry van truck rates 
declined approximately 2% during 1996, while intermodal rates declined 1%. 
These rate decreases negatively impacted revenues and earnings during 1996. 
The average number of tractors in the fleet increased approximately 2% during 
1996.

OPERATING EXPENSES

     Total operating expenses in 1996 increased 7% over 1995.  Operating 
expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenues (operating ratio) 
were 95.9% in 1996, compared with 98.4% in 1995.  The change in salaries, 
wages and employee benefits reflects a small increase in the company-owned 
tractor and driver employee fleet and a higher growth rate for intermodal and 
third-party logistics operations.  No significant changes in driver 
compensation occurred during 1996.  The increase in purchased transportation 
was primarily due to the growth of intermodal and logistics businesses, which 
results in additional payments to railroads and third-party companies for 
purchased transportation services.  Fuel and fuel taxes increased due to 
significantly higher fuel costs per gallon.  This increased cost was partly 
offset by fuel surcharge revenue which was billed to customers.  The decrease 
in depreciation expense was due, in part, to gains on the sale of the parcel 
management and hazardous commodities business.  Gains on the sale of revenue 
equipment were offset against depreciation expense.  Significantly higher 
accident rates during the first half of 1996 contributed to the increase in 
insurance and claims expense.




     The significant decline in general and administrative expenses was 
primarily due to lower driver advertising expenditures.  The increase in 
communication and utilities was due to certain rate reductions and one-time 
credits recognized in early 1995.  Special charges of $17.3 million were 
recorded in 1995 to reduce the carrying value of idle and under-performing 
assets.

     As a result of the above, net earnings increased to $22.1 million, or 58 
cents per share, in 1996, compared with a loss of $2.2 million, or six cents 
per share, after special charges in 1995.  The average number of shares 
outstanding during 1996 was 37.9 million, down from 38.5 million in 1995. The 
decrease in shares outstanding was primarily due to the Company's acquisition 
of treasury shares.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     This discussion of corporate liquidity and capital resources should be 
read in conjunction with information presented in the Consolidated Statements 
of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     The Company generates significant cash from operating activities.  Net 
cash provided by operating activities was $161 million in 1997, $141 million 
in 1996 and $149 million in 1995.  Increased levels of trade accounts 
receivable related to revenue growth and longer payment terms consumed cash 
in 1995 through 1997, as did payments in 1997 and 1996 to settle pending 
accident and cargo claims.  Changes in trade accounts payable, current assets 
and deferred income taxes generated cash in 1997.

     Net cash used in investing activities was $90 million in 1997, $131 
million in 1996 and $137 million in 1995.  The lower consumption of cash in 
1997 was primarily due to fewer purchases of trailing equipment.  While the 
Company leased and rented a significant amount of trailing equipment during 
1997 and late 1996, orders were placed in late 1997 and early 1998 for 
approximately $39 million of trailing equipment.

     Financing activities consumed $71 million in 1997, $10 million in 1996 
and $10 million in 1995.  The primary reasons for the increased use of cash 
in financing activities were net repayments of short-term obligations without 
incurring additional long-term debt and the purchase of treasury stock in 
1997 and 1996.

SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DATA



     The Company is authorized to issue up to $240 million in notes under a 
commercial paper note program, of which $133 million was outstanding at 
December 31, 1997.  In addition, the Company has approximately $121 million 
of uncommitted lines of credit, none of which were outstanding at December 
31, 1997.

     From time to time the Board of Directors authorizes the repurchase of 
company common stock.  Purchases totaled 1.468 million shares during 1997 at 
prices ranging from $13.50 per share to $17.00 per share, 1.159 million 
shares during 1996 at prices ranging from $14.13 to $16.63 per share, and 
 .514 million shares during 1995 at prices ranging from $13.13 to $15.63 per 
share.  The Company typically holds these shares in treasury for general 
corporate purposes, which may include employee stock options and other 
transactions.

     At December 31, 1997, the Company had committed to purchase 
approximately $115 million of revenue and service equipment (net cost, after 
expected proceeds from sale or trade-in allowances of approximately $24 
million).  Additional spending for new revenue equipment is anticipated 
during 1998, however, funding for such expenditures is expected to come from 
cash generated from operations and existing borrowing facilities.
                                       


YEAR 2000

    In 1996, the Company developed a plan to deal with the Year 2000 problem 
and began converting its computer systems to be Year 2000 compliant.  The 
plan provides for the conversion efforts to be completed by the end of 1998.  
The Year 2000 problem is the result of computer programs being written using 
two digits rather than four to define the applicable year.  The total cost of 
the project is estimated to be $820,000 and is being funded through operating 
cash flows.  The Company is expensing all costs associated with these systems 
changes as the costs are incurred.  As of December 31, 1997, approximately 
$325,000 had been expensed.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This report contains statements that may be considered as 
forward-looking or predictions concerning future operations.  Such statements 
are based on management's belief or interpretation of information currently 
available.  These statements and assumptions involve certain risks and 
uncertainties and management can give no assurance that such expectations 
will be realized.  Among all the factors and events that are not within the 
Company's control and could have a material impact on future operating 
results are general economic conditions, cost and availability of diesel 
fuel, adverse weather conditions and competitive rate fluctuations.  Future 
financial and operating results of the Company may fluctuate as a result of 
these and other risk factors as detailed from time to time in Company filings 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standands ("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting 
Comprehensive Income" and SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an 
Enterprise and Related Information."  The Company is currently evaluating the 
effect of SFAS No. 130.  The Company plans to commence reporting separately 
on its two segments, dry-van T/L (including intermodal) and logistics 
services (including dedicated contract) in 1998.

ITEM 7a.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Not applicable to the Company for this annual report on Form 10-k.



ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                                       





                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                                       
                                       


The Board of Directors
J. B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of J. B. Hunt 
Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, 
and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity  
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 
31, 1997.  These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of 
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of J. B. 
Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 
1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of 
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles.



                                 KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



Little Rock, Arkansas
January 30, 1998






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

                          December 31, 1997 and 1996

               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



                                                                    (Continued)





                                    

                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                    Consolidated Balance Sheets, Continued

                          December 31, 1997 and 1996

               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     Consolidated Statements of Operations

                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                 Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                            (Dollars in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 (a) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

    J. B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned
      subsidiaries ("Company"), is a diversified transportation services and
      logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department
      of Transportation and various state regulatory agencies.

 (b) PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

    The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of
      the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  All significant
      intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
      consolidation.

 (c) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all
      highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three
      months or less to be cash equivalents.

 (d) TIRES IN SERVICE

    The Company capitalizes tires placed in service on new revenue equipment as
      a part of the equipment cost.  Replacement tires and costs for recapping
      tires are expensed at the time the tires are placed in service.

 (e) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated on the straight-line
      method over the estimated useful lives of 5 - 10 years for revenue and
      service equipment, 10 to 40 years for structures and improvements, and 3
      to 10 years for furniture and office equipment.  Gains (losses) on
      dispositions of revenue and other equipment, which are included in
      depreciation expense, were approximately $(664,000), $7,949,000, and
      $7,181,000 for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
      respectively.

 (f) REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The Company recognizes revenue based on relative transit time in each
      reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred.


                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 (g) INCOME TAXES

    Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.
      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
      consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
      carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective
      tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax
      assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
      apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences
      are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
      assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income
      in the period that includes the enactment date.

 (h) EARNINGS PER SHARE

    The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, EARNINGS PER SHARE, on a retroactive basis,
      which requires entities to report both basic earnings per share and
      diluted earnings per share for all periods presented.  A reconciliation
      of the numerator and denominator of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per
      share is shown below:




                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    Options to purchase shares of common stock that were outstanding during
      1997 and 1996 but were not included in the computation of diluted
      earnings per share because the options' exercise price was greater than
      the average market price of the common shares are shown in the table
      below.  None of the options outstanding during 1995 were included in the
      computation of diluted earnings per share because they would have been
      anti-dilutive.



 (i) CREDIT RISK

    Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
      concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables.
      Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are
      limited due to the Company's large number of customers and the diverse
      range of industries which they represent.  As of December 31, 1997 and
      1996, the Company had no significant concentrations of credit risk.

 (j) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge the effects of fluctuations
      in interest rates.  The differential paid or received on interest rate
      swap agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is charged or
      credited to interest expense over the life of the agreements.  Any gains
      or losses realized upon the termination of an interest rate swap
      agreement are deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the
      original term as a charge or credit to interest expense.

 (k) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

    Local currencies are generally considered the functional currencies outside
      the United States.  Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end
      exchange rates for operations in local currency environments.  Income and
      expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing
      during the year.

    Prior to January 1, 1997, foreign currency translation adjustments, which
      reflect foreign currency exchange rate changes applicable to the net
      assets of the Mexican operations, were recorded as a separate charge
      against stockholders' equity.  As of January 1, 1997, Mexico is
      considered a highly inflationary economy as defined by SFAS No. 52,
      FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION.  Accordingly, the more stable currency of
      the reporting parent (the Company) has been used, and the effect of
      exchange rates resulting in translation adjustments have been recorded as
      a component of net earnings for the year ended December 31, 1997.

                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 (l)  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN

    Prior to January 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its management
      incentive plan in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles
      Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES,
      and related interpretations.  As such, compensation expense would be
      recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the
      underlying stock exceeded the exercise price.  On January 1, 1996, the
      Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-
      BASED COMPENSATION, which permits entities to recognize as expense over
      the vesting period the fair value of all stock-based awards on the date
      of grant.  Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 also allows entities to continue
      to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net
      earnings and pro forma earnings per share disclosures for employee stock
      option grants made in 1995 and future years as if the fair-value-based
      method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied.  The Company has elected
      to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the
      pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

 (m) IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF

    The Company continually evaluates the carrying value of its assets for
      events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying value
      may not be recoverable.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is
      measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net
      cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  If such assets are
      considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by
      the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair
      value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower
      of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

    During 1995, the Company recorded special charges of approximately
      $17,296,000 to reduce the carrying value of idle and under-performing
      assets, primarily property and equipment and inventories associated with
      the auto hauling operations.  The effect of these charges reduced net
      earnings for 1995 by approximately $10,896,000 ($.29 per share).

 (n) YEAR 2000

    In 1996, the Company developed a plan to deal with the Year 2000 problem
      and began converting its computer systems to be Year 2000 compliant.  The
      plan provides for the conversion efforts to be completed by the end of
      1998.  The Year 2000 problem is the result of computer programs being
      written using two digits rather than four to define the applicable year.
      The total cost of the project is estimated to be $820,000 and is being
      funded through operating cash flows.  The Company is expensing all costs
      associated with these systems changes as the costs are incurred.  As of
      December 31, 1997, approximately $325,000 had been expensed.

                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 (o) USE OF ESTIMATES

    Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions
      relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities to prepare the consolidated financial
      statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
      Actual results could differ from those estimates.

 (p) RECLASSIFICATIONS

    To conform to the 1997 presentation, certain accounts for 1996 and 1995
      have been reclassified.  The reclassifications had no effect on net
      earnings (loss) for either period.

(2) LONG-TERM DEBT

  Long-term debt consists of (in thousands):



  Under its commercial paper note program, the Company is authorized to issue
    up to $240 million in notes.  These notes are supported by two credit
    agreements, which aggregate $240 million, with a group of banks, of which
    $120 million expires March 19, 1998 and $120 million expires March 20,
    2002.  The effective rate on the commercial note program was 5.69% and
    6.18% for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  The 6.25% senior notes are payable at maturity on September 1, 2003; the
    7.84% senior notes are payable in annual installments of $5,000,000 on
    March 31; the 7.80% senior subordinated notes are payable in five equal
    annual installments beginning October 30, 2000; the 6.25% senior notes are
    payable at maturity on November 17, 2000; and the 6.00% senior notes are
    payable at maturity on December 12, 2000.

  Under the terms of the credit agreements and the note agreements, the Company
    is required to maintain certain financial covenants including leverage
    tests, minimum tangible net worth levels and other financial ratios.  The
    Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants at December
    31, 1997.

  The Company has approximately $121 million of uncommitted lines of credit,
    none of which were outstanding at December 31, 1997. These lines are with
    various domestic and international banks and are due on demand.  Interest
    on borrowings is generally tied to the banks' prevailing base rates or
    other alternative market rates.  No commitment or facility fees are paid on
    these lines of credit and the obligations are typically evidenced by
    unsecured demand notes.

  Current maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1997 consist of
    outstanding commercial paper associated with the revolving credit agreement
    which expires March 19, 1998 and one installment of the senior notes.  The
    aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years
    ending December 31 are as follows (in thousands): 1998, $17,500; 1999,
    $5,000; 2000, $60,000; 2001, $10,000; and 2002, $130,000.

(3) CAPITAL STOCK

  The Company maintains a Management Incentive Plan ("Plan") that provides
    various vehicles to compensate key employees with Company common stock.
    Under the Plan, the Company is authorized to award, in aggregate, not more
    than 5,000,000 shares.  At December 31, 1997 there were approximately
    11,000 shares available for grant under the Plan.  The Company has utilized
    three such vehicles to award stock or grant options to purchase the
    Company's common stock: restricted stock awards, restricted options and
    nonstatutory stock options.

  Restricted stock awards are granted to key employees subject to restrictions
    regarding transferability and assignment.  Shares of Company common stock
    are issued to the key employees and held by the Company until each employee
    becomes vested in the award.  Vesting of the awards generally occurs over a
    four year period of time from the award date.  Termination of the employee
    for any reason other than death, disability or certain cases of retirement
    causes the unvested portion of the award to be forfeited.

  Prior to 1994, key employees were granted restricted options to purchase
    stock.  Vesting of the award generally occurred over a four year period
    beginning on the grant date.  Failure to exercise a vested option within
    210 days after vesting or termination of the employee for any reason other
    than death or disability resulted in forfeiture.

                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  The Plan provides that nonstatutory stock options may be granted to key
    employees for the purchase of Company common stock for 100% of the fair
    market value of the common stock at the grant date.  The options generally
    vest over a ten year period and are forfeited if the employee terminates
    for any reason.

  Compensation expense (benefit) under the Plan is charged to earnings over the
    vesting period and amounted to approximately $(78,000), $628,000, and
    $1,100,000 for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
    respectively.

  A summary of the restricted and nonstatutory options to purchase Company
    common stock follows:



  During 1995, the Board of Directors established a nonqualified stock option
    plan to provide performance based compensation to the Chairman of the
    Board.  The plan allows the Chairman the option to purchase up to 2.5
    million shares of the Company's common stock at a price of $17.63 per
    share.  These options vest after five years, except for special
    circumstances in which the options vest earlier.  The options must be
    exercised within one year of vesting and all unexercised options will
    terminate.

                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at the
    grant date for its stock options under SFAS No. 123, the Company's net
    earnings (loss) would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated
    below.



  Pro forma net earnings (loss) reflects only options granted since December
    31, 1994.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation costs for
    stock options under SFAS No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net
    earnings (loss) amounts presented above because compensation cost is
    reflected over the options' vesting periods of 5 to 10 years and
    compensation cost for options granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not
    considered.

  The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during
    1997, 1996 and 1995 was $6.86, $7.88 and $6.35, respectively, on the date
    of grant using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the following
    weighted-average assumptions: 1997 - expected dividend yield 1.1%,
    volatility of 34.1%, risk-free interest rate of 5.8%, and an expected life
    of 7.7 years; 1996 - expected dividend yield 1.4%, volatility of 34.8%,
    risk-free interest rate of 6.2%, and an expected life of 5.6 years; 1995 -
    expected dividend yield 1.4%, volatility of 34.8%, risk-free interest rate
    of 5.6%, and an expected life of 5.6 years.

  The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
    December 31, 1997:



                                                                    (Continued)






                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
  
  On January 21, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash
    dividend of $.05 per share payable on February 17, 1998 to shareholders of
    record on February 3, 1998.
  
(4) INCOME TAXES

  Total income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 1997,
    1996 and 1995 was allocated as follows (in thousands):



  Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to earnings (loss) before income
    taxes consists of (in thousands):




  The following is a reconciliation between the effective income tax rate and
    the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate for each of the three
    fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 1997:



                                                                    (Continued)





                                       
                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
  
  The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
    portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at
    December 31, 1997 and 1996 are presented below (in thousands):



  The Company believes its history of profitability and taxable income and its
    utilization of tax planning sufficiently supports the carrying amount of
    the deferred tax assets.  Accordingly, the Company has not recorded a
    valuation allowance as all deferred tax benefits are more likely than not
    to be realized.
  
  At December 31, 1997, the Company had general business tax credit
    carryforwards of approximately $2,621,000 expiring from the year 2007 to
    2009, and alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards with no expiration
    of approximately $4,700,000.
  
(5) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  The Company maintains a defined contribution employee retirement plan, which
    includes a 401(k) option, under which employees are eligible to participate
    after they complete one year of service.  Beginning January 1, 1998,
    employees will be eligible to participate immediately upon employment.  The
    Company matches a specified percentage of employee contributions, subject
    to certain limitations.  For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
    1995, total Company contributions to the plan, including matching 401(k)
    contributions, were $4,951,000, $3,450,000, and $3,394,000, respectively.
  
                                                                    (Continued)





                                       
                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
  
(6) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, AND TRADE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

  The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of
    these instruments.
  
  LONG-TERM DEBT

  The carrying amount of the commercial paper debt approximates the fair value
    because of the short maturity of the commercial paper instruments.
  
  The fair value of the fixed rate debt is presented as the present value of
    future cash flows discounted using the Company's current borrowing rate for
    notes of comparable maturity.  The calculation arrives at a theoretical
    amount the Company would pay a creditworthy third party to assume its fixed
    rate obligations and not the termination value of these obligations.
    Consistent with market practices, such termination values may include
    various prepayment and termination fees that the Company would
    contractually be required to pay if it retired the debt early.
  
  INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

  The fair values of interest rate swap agreements are obtained from dealer
    quotes.  These values represent the estimated amount the Company would pay
    to terminate such agreements, taking into consideration current interest
    rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties.
  
  The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are
    summarized as follows (in thousands):




(a)  The fair value for these assets either approximated carrying value because 
     of the nature of these instruments, or was impracticable to determine.

                                                                    (Continued)





                                       
                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


(7) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

  The Company advances premiums on life insurance policies on the lives of the
    Company's principal stockholder and his wife.  All premiums paid by the
    Company, along with accrued interest thereon, are reimbursable from a trust
    which is the owner and beneficiary of the policy.  The Company has a
    guarantee from the stockholder for the amount of premiums paid by the
    Company together with interest at the rate of 5% per annum.  The amounts
    reimbursable to the Company amount to approximately $5,408,000 and
    $4,630,000 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  These amounts are
    included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

(8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

  The Company has committed to purchase approximately $115 million of revenue
    and service equipment (net cost, after expected proceeds from sale or trade-
    in allowances of approximately $24 million).
  
  The Company is involved in certain claims and pending litigation arising from
    the normal conduct of business.  Based on the present knowledge of the
    facts and, in certain cases, opinions of outside counsel, management
    believes the resolution of claims and pending litigation will not have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations
    of the Company.
  
(9) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

  Included in the fourth quarter 1997 results is a pre-tax charge of $4.3
    million to adjust workers compensation reserves.  The additional workers
    compensation expense was accrued as a result of an in-depth case by case
    analysis.
  
  Operating results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996
    are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
  


                                                                    (Continued)





                                       
                      J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                               AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements









ITEM 9.   DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed within the twenty-four months prior
to December 31, 1997 involving a change of accountants or disagreements on
accounting and financial disclosure.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

DIRECTORS

     The schedule of directors is hereby incorporated by reference from the
Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholder's Meeting of April 16,
1998 set forth under section entitled "Proposal One Election of Directors".

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth
in Item 4 of this Report under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Company".

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required for Items 11 and 12 is hereby incorporated by
reference from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholders'
Meeting of April 16, 1998 set forth under sections entitled "Stock
Ownership," "Executive Compensation and Other Information," "1998
Performance Based Compensation," and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation."

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required for Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference
from Note (7) Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements and from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual
Stockholders' Meeting of April 16, 1998 set forth under the section entitled
"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS

     The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (a)  Exhibits

     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report ("Exhibit Index").

SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of Lowell, Arkansas, on 6th day of March, 1998.

                              J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                        (Registrant)

                         By: /s/ Kirk Thompson
                             -----------------------------------------
                                 Kirk Thompson
                                 President and Chief Executive Officer

                         By: /s/ Jerry W. Walton
                             -----------------------------------------
                                 Jerry W. Walton
                                 Executive Vice President,
                                 Finance and Chief Financial Officer






     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ John A. Cooper, Jr.        Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors
    John A. Cooper, Jr.

/s/ Fred K. Darragh, Jr.       Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors
    Fred K. Darragh, Jr.

/s/ Wayne Garrison             Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors (Chairman)
    Wayne Garrison

/s/ Gene George                Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors
    Gene George

/s/ Thomas L. Hardeman         Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors
    Thomas L. Hardeman

/s/ J. Bryan Hunt, Jr.         Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors (Vice Chairman)
    J. Bryan Hunt, Jr.

/s/ J.B. Hunt                  Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors (Senior Chairman)
    J.B. Hunt

/s/ Johnelle Hunt              Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors (Corporate
    Johnelle Hunt              Secretary)

/s/ Lloyd E. Peterson          Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors
    Lloyd E. Peterson

/s/ Kirk Thompson              Member of the Board              March 6, 1998
- ---------------------------    of Directors (President and
    Kirk Thompson              Chief Executive Officer)






EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number            Description
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  3A    The Company's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation
        dated May 19, 1988 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4A of
        the Company's S-8 Registration Statement filed April 16, 1991;
        Registration Statement Number 33-40028).

  3B    The Company's Amended Bylaws dated September 19, 1983
        (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3C of the Company's S-1
        Registration Statement filed February 7, 1985; Registration
        Number 2-95714).

  10A   Material Contracts of the Company (incorporated by reference
        from Exhibits 10A-10N of the Company's S-1 Registration
        Statement filed February 7, 1985; Registration Number 2-95714).

  10B   The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan filed on Form S-8
        on February 3, 1984 (Registration Number 2-93928), and a
        Management Incentive Plan filed on Form S-8 on April 16, 1991
        (Registration Statement Number 33-40028). The Management
        Incentive Plan is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit
        4B of Registration Statement 33-40028.  The Company amended and
        restated its Employee Retirement Plan on Form S-8 (Registration
        Statement Number 33-57127) filed December 30, 1994.  The
        Employee Retirement Plan is incorporated herein by reference
        from Exhibit 99 of Registration Statement  Number 33-57127.

  21    Subsidiaries of J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.

          -  J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc., a Georgia corporation
          -  L.A., Inc., an Arkansas corporation
          -  J.B. Hunt Corp., a Delaware corporation
          -  J.B. Hunt Logistics, Inc., an Arkansas corporation
          -  Comercializadora Internacional de Cargo S.A. De C.V., a Mexican
              corporation
          -  Hunt Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation
          -  Servicios de Logistica de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
              corporation
          -  Servicios Administratios de Logistica, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
              corporation
          -  Asesoria Administrativa de Logistica, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
              corporation.
          -  Lake City Express, Inc., an Arkansas Corporation
          -  FIS, Inc., a Nevada corporation

  23    Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

  27    A Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 31, 1997.





