Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading provider of custom information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. Our customers are
primarily Global 2000 companies. Our core competencies include Technology Consulting, Complex Systems Development and Integration, Enterprise Software Package Implementation and Maintenance, Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence and
Analytics, Application Testing, Application Maintenance, Infrastructure Management, and Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing, or BPO and KPO. We tailor our services to specific industries, and utilize an integrated global sourcing model. This
seamless global sourcing model combines technical and account management teams located on-site at the customer location and at dedicated near-shore and offshore development and delivery centers located primarily in India, China, the United States,
Canada, Argentina, Hungary and the Philippines.

Industry Background

Many companies today face intense competitive pressure and rapidly changing market dynamics, driven by such factors as changes in the
economy, government regulations, globalization, virtualization and other technology innovations. In response to these challenges, many companies are focused on improving efficiencies, enhancing effectiveness and driving innovation to favorably
impact both the bottom-line and the top-line. In order to achieve these goals, companies are focusing on a number of services, such as:



•Business and Information Technology, or IT, alignment;



•IT application and infrastructure optimization;



•Business and Knowledge Process effectiveness and efficiency;



•Advanced custom systems development;



•Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence, or BI and Analytics;



•Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP;



•Customer Relationship Management, or CRM;



•Supply Chain Management;



•Enterprise 2.0 business models and technology solutions;



•Service-Oriented Architectures, Web 2.0 and Cloud Computing; and



•Engineering and Manufacturing solutions.

These solutions facilitate faster, more responsive and lower-cost business operations. However, their development, integration and on-going maintenance present major challenges and require a large number
of highly-skilled professionals trained in many diverse technologies and specialized industries. In addition, companies also require additional technical resources to maintain, enhance and re-engineer their core legacy IT systems and to address
application maintenance projects. Increasingly, companies are relying on custom IT solutions providers, such as us, to provide these services.

Additionally, in order to respond effectively to a changing and challenging business environment, IT departments of many companies have focused increasingly on improving returns on IT investments,
lowering costs and accelerating the delivery of new systems and solutions. To accomplish these objectives, many IT departments have shifted all or a portion of their IT development, integration and maintenance requirements to outside service
providers operating with global sourcing models.







Using a globally distributed workforce to provide value-added services presents a number of challenges to IT services and BPO/KPO
providers. The offshore implementation of value-added IT services requires that IT service providers continually and effectively attract, train and retain highly-skilled software development professionals with advanced technical and industry skills
necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer preferences. These skills are necessary to design, develop and deploy high-quality technology solutions in a cost-effective
and timely manner. In addition, IT service providers must have the methodologies, processes and communications capabilities to enable offshore workforces to be successfully integrated with on-site personnel. Service providers must also have strong
research and development capabilities, technology competency centers and relationship management skills in order to compete effectively.

The Cognizant Approach

Our business is organized and managed primarily around our four vertically-oriented business segments:



•Financial Services;



•Healthcare;



•Manufacturing, Retail and Logistics; and



•Other, which includes Communications, Information, Media and Entertainment and High Technology.

This vertical focus has been central to our revenue growth and high customer satisfaction. As the IT services industry continues to
mature, clients are looking for service providers who understand their businesses, industry initiatives, culture and have solutions tailored to meet their individual business needs. We have continued to hire experts out of industry, establish a
broad base of business analysts and consultants, invest in industry training for our staff, and build out industry-specific services and solutions. This approach is central to our high-levels of on-time delivery and customer satisfaction, as we
understand the full context of our clients’ challenges and have deep experience in addressing them.







Our key service areas, IT Consulting and Technology Services and Outsourcing Services are
delivered to our clients across our four business segments in a standardized, high-quality manner through a Global Delivery Model. These service areas include:



•IT Consulting and Technology Services



•Business and Knowledge Process Consulting;



•IT Strategy Consulting;



•Program Management Consulting;



•Technology Consulting;



•Application Design, Development, Integration and Re-engineering, such as:



•Complex Custom Systems Development;



•Data Warehousing / Business Intelligence, or BI;



•Customer Relationship Management, or CRM, System implementation; and



•Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, System implementation; and



•Software Testing Services.



•Outsourcing Services



•Application Maintenance, such as:



•Custom Application Maintenance; and



•CRM and ERP Maintenance;



•IT Infrastructure Outsourcing; and



•Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing, or BPO and KPO.

Business Segments

We are organized around our four
vertically–oriented business segments, and we report the operations of our business as follows:



Financial ServicesHealthcareManufacturing/Retail/LogisticsOtherBankingInsuranceHealthcareLife
SciencesManufacturing and LogisticsRetail and HospitalityConsumer
GoodsCommunicationsInformation,
Media and EntertainmentHigh Technology

Financial Services

In 2010, our Financial Services business segment
represented approximately 42.4% of our total revenues. Revenues from our Financial Services business segment were $1,944.5 million, $1,406.6 million and $1,284.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. This
business segment provides services to our customers operating in the following industries:



•Banking. We focus on traditional retail and commercial banks, and diversified financial enterprises. We assist these clients in such areas as:
Consumer Lending, Cards and Payments, Wholesale Banking, Risk Management, Investment Banking and Brokerage, Asset and Wealth Management, Corporate Services and Retail Banking. We also focus on the needs of broker / dealers, asset management
firms, depositories, clearing organizations and exchanges. Key areas where we help these clients in both driving efficiencies and establishing new capabilities include: Front Office, Middle Office, Back Office, Sales and Brokerage, Research,
Exchange Operations and Prime Brokerage solutions.







•Insurance. We assist with the needs of property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers. We focus on such
areas as: Business Acquisition, Policy Administration, Claims Processing, Management Reporting, Regulatory Compliance and Reinsurance.

Healthcare

In 2010, our Healthcare business segment represented
approximately 25.6% of our total revenues. Revenues from our Healthcare business segment were $1,177.1 million, $860.4 million and $688.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. This business segment
provides services to our customers operating in the following industries:



•Healthcare. We work with many leading healthcare organizations, including leading healthcare organizations in the United States. Our Healthcare
service teams focus on the following key industry solutions: Broker Compensation, Sales and Underwriting Systems, Provider Management, Plan Sponsor Administration, Electronic Enrollment, Membership, Billing, Claims Processing, Medical
Management and Pharmacy Benefit Management. We are also partnering with our customers to enable their IT systems to deal with initiatives such as self service portals (member / provider / broker), consumer-driven healthcare, behavioral health,
regulatory compliance, Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, and healthcare data warehousing and analytics.



•Life Sciences.We partner with the leading organizations in the Life Sciences industry to assist them with the opportunities and challenges of
their rapidly evolving market. We work with many of the world’s leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and medical device companies. We are assisting these companies in dealing with such challenges as: Consolidation, Data
Integration, Time to Market, Safety, Globalization and Regulations. Some of our Life Sciences solutions include: Prescriber Behavior Analysis and Insight, Longitudinal Prescription Data Management Systems, Sales Force Compensation Systems, Sales
Data and Claims Data Management Systems, Clinical Trial Solutions, 21CFR11 Assessment and Computer Systems Validation, Data Mining and Business Intelligence Solutions, e-Business and Data Portals, and ERP implementation, upgrade, and maintenance
services.

Manufacturing / Retail / Logistics

In 2010, our Manufacturing, Logistics and Retail business segment represented approximately 18.5% of our total revenues. Revenues
from our Manufacturing/Retail/Logistics business segment were $849.6 million, $564.9 million and $443.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. This business segment services customers in the following
industry groups:



•Manufacturing and Logistics.We help organizations improve operational efficiencies, enhance responsiveness and collaborate with trading
partners to better serve their end customers. We leverage a comprehensive understanding of the business and technology drivers of the industry. Some of our Manufacturing and Logistics solutions include: Supply Chain Management, Warehouse and Yard
Management, Waste Management, Transportation Management, Optimization, Portals and ERP solutions.



•Retail and Hospitality.We serve a wide spectrum of retailers and distributors, including supermarkets, specialty premium retailers, department
stores and large mass-merchandise discounters. We deliver the best of both worlds: in-depth experience with retailing applications and a strong enterprise architecture foundation. We also serve the entire travel and hospitality industry including
airlines, hotels and restaurants, as well as online and retail travel, global distribution systems and intermediaries and real estate companies. Several of the services we provide for retail and hospitality customers are as follows:



•Upgrade supply chain systems, ranging from order management to category and space management, warehouse management, logistics management, pricing and
promotions, and merchandising management;







•Implement new point of sale solutions that embrace new international standards and provide new flexibility for supporting new merchandising
initiatives;



•Implement point solutions developed by our Retail Center of Excellence. The Center of Excellence has built solution accelerators and defined
implementation methodologies for multi-channel integration, and for Point of Sale systems migration;



•Accelerate the implementation of enterprise and customer relationship management;



•Improve business intelligence effectiveness;



•We leverage our experience in a number of key functional areas such as loyalty programs, technical operations, and inventory distribution, channel
management, brand portal development, outlet service desk and store accounting;



•Our technical and functional consultants provide in-depth knowledge of industry applications and standards; and



•We also provide BPO and niche processes in restaurants, hotels and airlines.



•Consumer Goods.We work with the world’s premier consumer goods manufacturers, creating innovative solutions and strategies that keep them
price-competitive, category-leading and consumer-savvy. Our expertise spans a wide gamut, from demand-driven supply chains, to revenue-creating trade promotion management systems, to analytics systems and mobility solutions that anticipate and serve
ever-changing customer needs.

Other

In 2010, our Other business segment represented approximately 13.5% of our total revenues. Revenues from our Other business segment were $621.2 million, $446.7 million and $400.8 million for the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The Other business segment is an aggregation of operating segments which, individually, are less than 10.0% of consolidated revenues and segment operating profit. The Other business
segment includes Communications, Information, Media and Entertainment Services and High Technology operating segments. A description of operating segments included in Other is as follows:



•Communications.Our Communications industry practice serves some of the world’s leading communications service providers, equipment vendors
and software vendors. We have several industry-specific solutions, including: OSS / BSS Implementation, Network Management Services, Mobile Applications, Conformance Testing, Product Lifecycle Management, Product Implementation, Portals, Business
Activity Monitoring, Mobile Systems Integration, Broadband Evolution Services and Billing Quality Assurance.



•Information, Media and Entertainment.We have an extensive track record working with some of the world’s largest media and entertainment
companies. With the emergence of digital technologies promising to revolutionize the business, we offer consulting and outsourcing services to help media and entertainment companies concentrate on their end product. Some of our solutions include:



•Supply chain management solutions, from pre-press to material procurement, circulation, logistics, and vendor management;



•Business solutions covering advertising management, online media, and e-business;



•Workflow automation covering the product development process for broadcasters;



•Spot ad buying systems covering agency of record, traffic management, post-buy analysis, and financial management;



•Digital Asset Management, or DAM and Digital Rights Management, or DRM; and



•Operational systems including ad sales, studio management, outsourcing billing and payments, along with content management and delivery.







•High Technology. We serve some of the world’s leading Independent Software Vendors, or ISVs, and Online Service Providers. We believe that
the needs of technology companies are different—more technically complex, challenging and advanced than what is typically found in other industries. Catering to these needs, our High Technology practice assists with the unique needs of these
clients in areas such as: Product Development, Product Sustenance, Compatibility Testing, Internationalization, Product Re-engineering, Multiple Channel Extension, Security Testing and Content Management.

Our Solution and Services

We believe that we have developed an effective integrated global delivery business model and this business model is expected to be a
critical element of our continued growth. To support this business model, at December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 104,000 professionals and support staff globally. We also have established facilities and technology and communication
infrastructures to support our business model.

Across each of our business segments, we provide a broad and expanding range
of consulting, information technology and outsourcing services, including:

Consulting and Technology Services



•IT Consulting. Our consulting division, Cognizant Business Consulting, focuses on helping clients derive greater value at the intersection of
their business initiatives and IT requirements. Our consulting offerings are based on rigorous and proven methodologies and scientifically driven frameworks. In the areas of business processes, technologies and offshoring, we analyze the existing
environment, identify opportunities for optimization and provide a robust roadmap for significant cost savings and productivity improvement. The broad areas of coverage include: offshoring strategy, IT strategy, technology rationalization, business
process rationalization, change management and IT solution strategy.



•Program Management Consulting. We provide a broad range of project delivery services, including post-acquisition integration, business and IT
integration, business transformation, product/service launch and organization relocation services.



•Application Design, Development, Integration and Re-engineering. We define customer requirements, write specifications and design, develop, test
and integrate software across multiple platforms including Internet technologies. We modify and test applications to enable systems to function in new operating environments. In addition, these services include Data Warehousing / Business
Intelligence, ERP and CRM implementation services. We follow either one of two alternative approaches to application development and integration:



•full life-cycle application development, in which we assume start-to-finish responsibility for analysis, design, implementation, testing and
integration of systems; or



•cooperative development, in which our employees work with a customer’s in-house IT personnel to jointly analyze, design, implement, test and
integrate new systems.

In both of these approaches, our on-site team members work closely and
collaboratively with our clients. Detailed design, implementation and testing are generally performed at dedicated near-shore and offshore development and delivery centers located primarily in India, China, the United States, Canada, Argentina,
Hungary and the Philippines. In addition, we maintain an on-site presence at each customer location in order to address evolving customer needs and resulting changes to the project.

A key part of our application development and integration offering is a suite of services to help organizations build and integrate
business applications with the rest of their operations. In this suite of services, we leverage our skills in business application development and enterprise application integration to build sophisticated business applications and to integrate these
new applications and websites with client server and legacy systems. We build and deploy robust, scalable and extensible architectures for use in a wide range of industries. We maintain competency centers specializing in







various areas such as: Microsoft solutions; IBM, SAP, Oracle and JAVA applications; and Cloud computing and Mobile solutions. These competency centers enable us to provide application development
and integration services to a broad spectrum of customers.

Our re-engineering service offerings assist customers migrating
from systems based on legacy computing environments to newer standards-based distribution architectures, often in response to the more stringent demands of business. Our re-engineering tools automate many of the processes required to implement
advanced technology platforms. We believe that this automation substantially reduces the time and cost to perform re-engineering services, savings that benefit both our customers and us. These tools also enable us to perform source code analysis and
to re-design target databases and convert certain programming languages. If necessary, our programmers also help customers re-design and convert user interfaces.



•Software Testing. Our Software Testing service offering has experienced significant growth in the past several years. Through this practice, we
provide an independent verification and validation service focused exclusively on supporting the software testing needs of our clients. Our testing service has four key offerings: 1) Independent Functional Testing; 2) Test Automation; 3) Test
Process Consulting; and 4) Performance Testing. We utilize our own Managed Test Center process model to ensure our clients receive the highest quality code possible after it has been tested by us. We focus our Managed Test Centers on specific
domains (e.g., specific industries and software solutions), ensuring we tailor our testing solutions to the particular needs of our clients.

Outsourcing Services



•Application Maintenance. Our Application Maintenance Service offering supports some or all of a customer’s applications ensuring that
systems remain operational and responsive to changing user requirements and provide on-going enhancements as required by the customer.

We provide services to help ensure that a customer’s core operational systems are free of defects and responsive to the customer’s changing needs. As part of this process, we are often able to
introduce product and process enhancements and improve service levels to customers requesting modifications and on-going support.

Our global delivery business model enables us to provide a range of rapid response and cost-effective support services to our customers. Our on-site team members often provide help-desk services at the
customer’s facility. These team members typically are available in the event of an emergency service request and are able to quickly resolve customer problems from remote locations. In the case of more complex maintenance services, including
modifications, enhancements and documentation, which typically have longer turnaround times, we take full advantage of our offshore resources to develop solutions more cost-effectively than would be possible relying on higher cost local
professionals. The services provided by our offshore team members are delivered to customers using satellite and fiber-optic communications.

As part of our Application Maintenance services, we assist customers in renovating their core systems to meet the requirements imposed by new regulations, new standards or other external events. These
services include, or have previously included, Year 2000 compliance, Eurocurrency compliance, decimalization within the securities industry and compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act for the healthcare industry.

We seek to anticipate the operational environment of our customers’ IT systems as we design and develop such systems. We
also offer diagnostic services to customers to assist them in identifying shortcomings in their IT systems and optimizing the performance of their systems.



•IT Infrastructure Services. We provide IT Infrastructure Management Outsourcing services and we anticipate growing demand for these services in
the coming years. We provide service capability in redundant Network Operating Centers, or NOCs, in North America and India through which we are







able to provide significant scale, quality and cost savings to our clients in IT Infrastructure Services. We focus on a number of key areas of infrastructure management such as: Networks,
Servers, Middleware, Security, Vendors, Storage, Messaging, Databases, and Desktops. We can provide these through an IT Service Desk model, focusing on such areas as IT Operations and IT Help Desk.



•Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing, or BPO and KPO.We provide BPO and KPO services to our clients across industries of our
specialization. At Cognizant, we are primarily focused on value-added processes that are specific to clients in our key industry segments (particularly in Financial Services, Healthcare and Manufacturing / Retail / Logistics and Communications). Our
BPO/KPO practice focuses on core back office services covering: Transaction Processing, Accounting Operations, Voice Processes, Data Administration, Data Management and Data Analytics.

In addition to our industry-specific expertise and focus, our strengths, which we believe differentiate us from other IT service providers, include
the following:

Established and Scalable Proprietary Processes:We have a comprehensive process framework that
addresses the entire software engineering life cycle and support activities which are scalable for projects of different sizes and complexities. This proprietary framework, which we refer to as “Process Space” (part of Cognizant 2.0), is
supported by in-house project management, metrics management and workflow tools and is available to all of our programmers globally. Process Space has evolved since its original release in 1996 in breadth, depth and maturity, based on the
implementation feedback from projects and findings of internal quality audits and external assessments. Process capabilities are monitored at the sub-process level and performance targets are monitored at the process level, which are aligned with
the overall business objectives. Statistical process controls are used extensively to continuously monitor, predict and improve performance. Our Quality Assurance group facilitates process implementation from the project inception and audits the
projects periodically to ensure that the implementation is effective and the risks are being managed.

Our process framework has been extensively adapted to cater to different types of projects managed by the organization, including Application Development, Application Maintenance, Testing, Mass Change,
Data Migration, Re-engineering, Business Process Outsourcing, IT infrastructure and Package Development projects.

Highly-Skilled Workforce.Our managers and senior technical personnel provide in-depth project management expertise to customers.
To maintain this level of expertise, we have placed significant emphasis on recruiting and training our workforce of highly-skilled professionals. We have approximately 12,200 project







managers and senior technical personnel around the world, many of whom have significant work experience in North America, Europe and Asia. We also maintain programs and personnel to hire and
train the best available technical professionals in both legacy systems and emerging technologies. We provide extensive combined classroom and on-the-job training to newly hired programmers, as well as additional annual training programs designed to
enhance the business practices, tools, technology and consulting skills of our professional staff. We were assessed by KPMG at Level 5 (the highest possible rating) of the People Capability Maturity Model, or P-CMM, of the Software Engineering
Institute at Carnegie Mellon University. This widely recognized means of implementing current best practices in fields such as human resources, knowledge management and organizational development help improve our processes for managing and
developing our workforce and addressing critical people issues.

Research and Development and Competency Centers. We
have project experience and expertise across multiple architectures and technologies, and have made significant investments in our competency centers and in research and development to keep abreast of the latest technology developments. Most of our
programmers are trained in multiple technologies and architectures. As a result, we are able to react to customers’ needs quickly and efficiently redeploy programmers to different technologies. Also, to develop and maintain this flexibility, we
have made a substantial investment in our competency centers so that the experience gained from particular projects and research and development efforts is leveraged across our entire organization. In addition, through our investment in research and
development activities and the continuing education of our technical personnel, we enlarge our knowledge base and develop the necessary skills to keep pace with emerging technologies. We believe that our ability to work in new technologies allows us
to foster long-term relationships by having the capacity to continually address the needs of both existing and new customers.

Well-Developed Infrastructure.Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure facilitate the seamless
integration of our global workforces. This is accomplished by permitting team members in different locations to access common project information and to work directly on customer projects. This infrastructure allows for:



•rapid completion of projects;



•highest level of quality;



•off-peak use of customers’ technological resources; and



•real-time access to project information by the on-site account manager or the customer.

International time differences enable our offshore teams to access a customer’s computing facilities located in North America,
Europe, the Asia Pacific region and other countries in which we provide services during off-peak hours. This ability to perform services during off-peak hours enables us to complete projects more rapidly and does not require our customers to invest
in duplicative hardware and software. In addition, for large projects with short time frames, our offshore facilities allow for parallel processing of various development phases to accelerate delivery time. In addition, we can deliver services more
rapidly than some competitors without an offshore labor pool because our lower labor costs enable us to cost-effectively assign more professionals to a project.

Business Strategies

Our objectives are to maximize stockholder value and
enhance our position as a leading provider of custom information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. We implement the following core strategies to achieve these objectives:

Further Develop Long-Term Customer Relationships.We have strong long-term strategic relationships with our customers and business
partners. We seek to establish long-term relationships that present recurring revenue opportunities, frequently trying to establish relationships with our customers’ chief information officers, or other IT decision makers, by offering a wide
array of cost-effective high quality services. Approximately 97% of our







revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were derived from customers who had been using our services at the end of 2009. We also seek to leverage our experience with a customer’s
IT systems into new business opportunities. Knowledge of a customer’s processes and IT systems gained during the performance of application maintenance services, for example, may provide us with a competitive advantage in securing additional
maintenance, development and other projects from that customer.

Expand Service Offerings and Solutions.We have
several teams dedicated to developing new, high value services. These teams collaborate with customers to develop these services. For example, we are currently developing new offerings in Business and IT Consulting and vertically-oriented IT
solutions atop innovative technologies such as: Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and Web 2.0. We invest in internal research and development and promote knowledge building and sharing across the organization to promote the development of new
services and solutions. Furthermore, we continue to enhance our capabilities and service offerings in the areas of:



•Customer Relationship Management, or CRM;



•Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP;



•Data Warehousing / Business Intelligence, or BI;



•Software Testing;



•Infrastructure Management; and



•Vertically-Oriented Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing, or BPO and KPO.

We believe that the continued expansion of our service offerings will reduce our reliance on any one technology initiative and may help
foster long-term relationships with our customers by allowing us to better serve their needs. Among service offerings, Infrastructure Management and Vertically-Oriented Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing have been among the key drivers of
growth.

Enhance Processes, Methodologies and Productivity Toolsets.With the globalization of business,we are
committed to improving and enhancing our proprietary Process Space software engineering process and other methodologies and toolsets. In light of the rapid evolution of technology, we believe that continued investment in research and development is
critical to our continued success. We are constantly designing and developing additional productivity software tools to automate testing processes and improve project estimation and risk assessment techniques. For example, we have created and rolled
out “Cognizant 2.0” which uses groupware technology based on Web 2.0 technologies, enabling Cognizant associates to share project experiences and best practice methodologies across the organization with the objective of improving
productivity.

Expand Domestic and International Geographic Presence. As we expand our customer base, we plan to open
additional sales and marketing offices in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. This expansion is expected to facilitate sales and service to existing and new customers. We have established sales and marketing offices in various
metropolitan areas both in the United States and internationally.

Continue to be an Employer of Choice in the Industry.As a rapidly growing professional services firm, a key attribute of our continued success is the ability to continually hire, assimilate, motivate and retain the best talent possible in the industry. We have developed strong relationships with
key universities around the world, particularly in India, to provide a continual funnel of talented staff from Tier One schools. In addition, we continue to expand our presence and brand in our key supply markets, further enhancing our ability to
hire experienced professionals from competing IT services firms and industry to support our client needs and growth. We invest heavily in training programs (centered around Cognizant Academy), motivational programs and career development to ensure
personal professional growth for each of our associates.

Pursue Selective Strategic Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and
Strategic Alliances. We believe that opportunities exist in the fragmented market in which we operate to expand our business through selective







strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances. We believe that acquisition and joint venture candidates may enable us to expand our geographic presence and our capabilities more
rapidly, especially in geographic markets and key industries. For example, in 2010, we completed three acquisitions, to strengthen our business process outsourcing expertise within our logistic services, our business transformation and program
management capabilities and to expand our testing services within Europe. In addition, through our working relationships with independent software vendors we obtain projects using the detailed knowledge we gain in connection with a joint development
process. Finally, we expect to continue to form strategic alliances with select IT service firms that offer complementary services to best meet the requirements of our customers.

Sales and Marketing

We market and sell our services directly through our
professional staff, senior management and direct sales personnel operating out of our Teaneck, New Jersey headquarters and our business development offices which are strategically located in various metropolitan areas around the world. The sales and
marketing group works with our technical team as the sales process moves closer to the customer’s selection of a services provider. The duration of the sales process varies depending on the type of service, ranging from approximately two months
to over one year. The account manager or sales executive works with the technical team to:



•define the scope, deliverables, assumptions and execution strategies for a proposed project;



•develop project estimates;



•prepare pricing and margin analyses; and



•finalize sales proposals.

Management reviews and approves proposals, which are then presented to the prospective customer. Our sales and account management personnel remain actively involved in the project through the execution
phase. We focus our marketing efforts on businesses with intensive information processing needs. We maintain a prospect/customer database that is continuously updated and used throughout the sales cycle from prospect qualification to close. As a
result of this marketing system, we pre-qualify sales opportunities, and direct sales representatives are able to minimize the time spent on prospect qualification. In addition, substantial emphasis is placed on customer retention and expansion of
services provided to existing customers. In this regard, our account managers play an important marketing role by leveraging their ongoing relationship with the customer to identify opportunities to expand and diversify the type of services provided
to that customer.

Customers

The number of customers served by us has increased significantly in recent years. As of December 31, 2010, we were providing services to approximately 712 customers, as compared to approximately 589
customers as of December 31, 2009, and approximately 565 customers as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, we provide a significant volume of services to many customers in each of our business segments. Therefore, a loss of a significant
customer or a few significant customers in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for such segment. However, no individual customer exceeded 10.0% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
In addition, the services we provide to our larger customers are often critical to the operations of such customers and a termination of our services would require an extended transition period with gradual declining revenues. For the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 78.0%, 79.1% and 79.1% of our revenue, respectively, was from North American customers.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived our revenues from the following business segments: 42.4% from Financial Services,
25.6% from Healthcare, 18.5% from Retail/Manufacturing/Logistics and 13.5% from Other.







We provide services either on a time-and-material basis or on a fixed price basis. The
volume of work performed for specific customers is likely to vary from year to year, and a significant customer in one year may not use our services in a subsequent year.

Presented in the table below is additional information about our customers.



Year Ended December 31,201020092008Revenues from top five customers as a percentage of total revenues17.9%17.4%19.4%Revenues from top ten customers as a percentage of total revenues30.3%29.4%30.0%Revenues under fixed-bid contracts as a percentage of total revenues31.5%30.3%26.7%

Competition

The intensely competitive IT services and outsourcing market includes a large number of participants and is subject to rapid change. This
market includes participants from a variety of market segments, including:



•systems integration firms;



•contract programming companies;



•application software companies;



•traditional large consulting firms;



•the professional services groups of computer equipment companies; and



•facilities management and outsourcing companies.

Our direct competitors include, among others, Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, HCL Technologies, HP Enterprise (formerly Electronic Data Systems), IBM Global Services, Infosys
Technologies, Perot Systems (acquired by Dell Inc.), Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro. In addition, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate.

Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition. The
principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our services include:



•performance and reliability;



•quality of technical support, training and services;



•responsiveness to customer needs;



•reputation and experience;



•financial stability and strong corporate governance; and



•competitive pricing of services.

We rely on the following to compete effectively:



•a well-developed recruiting, training and retention model;



•a successful service delivery model;



•a broad referral base;



•continual investment in process improvement and knowledge capture;







•investment in infrastructure and research and development;



•financial stability and strong corporate governance;



•continued focus on responsiveness to customer needs, quality of services, competitive prices; and



•project management capabilities and technical expertise.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights are important to
our business. We presently hold no patents or registered copyrights. Instead, we rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We
require our employees, independent contractors, vendors and customers to enter into written confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary
information disclosed or otherwise made available by us be kept confidential. In addition, when we disclose any confidential or proprietary information to third parties, we routinely require those third parties to agree in writing to keep that
information confidential.

A portion of our business involves the development for customers of highly complex information
technology software applications and other technology deliverables. This intellectual property includes written specifications and documentation in connection with specific customer engagements. Our customers usually own the intellectual property
rights in the software and other deliverables we develop for them.

Employees

We finished the 2010 year with headcount of approximately 104,000. We employed approximately 83,000 persons in the Asia Pacific
region, approximately 17,300 persons in various locations throughout North America and South America and over 3,700 persons in various locations throughout Europe, principally in the United Kingdom. We are not party to any significant
collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.







Our future success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, train and
retain highly-skilled IT development and other professionals. In particular, we need to attract, train and retain project managers, programmers and other senior technical personnel. We believe there is a shortage of, and significant competition for,
IT development professionals in the United States, Europe and in India with the advanced technological skills necessary to perform the services we offer. We have an active recruitment program in India, and have developed a recruiting system and
database that facilitates the rapid identification of skilled candidates. During the course of the year, we conduct extensive recruiting efforts at premier colleges and technical schools in India. We evaluate candidates based on academic
performance, the results of a written aptitude test measuring problem-solving skills and a technical interview. In addition, we have an active lateral recruiting program in North America, Europe and India. A substantial majority of the personnel on
most on-site teams and virtually all the personnel staffed on offshore teams is comprised of Indian nationals.

Our senior
project managers are hired from leading consulting firms in the United States, Europe and India. Our senior management and most of our project managers have experience working in the United States and Europe. This enhances our ability to attract and
retain other professionals with experience in the United States and Europe. We have also adopted a career and education management program to define our employees’ objectives and career plans. We have implemented an intensive orientation and
training program to introduce new employees to the Process Space software engineering process, our other technologies and our services.

Our Executive Officers

The following table identifies our current executive officers:



NameAgeCapacities in Which ServedIn CurrentPosition SinceLakshmi Narayanan(1)57Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors2007Francisco D’Souza(2)42President and Chief Executive Officer2007Gordon Coburn(3)47Chief Financial and Operating Officer, and Treasurer2007Ramakrishnan Chandrasekaran(4)53President and Managing Director, Global Delivery2006Rajeev Mehta(5)44Chief Operating Officer, Global Client Services2006Steven Schwartz(6)43Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary2007



(1)Lakshmi Narayanan was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2007. Mr. Narayanan served as our Chief Executive Officer from
December 2003 through December 2006 and as our President from March 1998 through December 2006. Mr. Narayanan joined our Indian subsidiary as Chief Technology Officer in 1994 and was elected President of such subsidiary on
January 1, 1996. Prior to joining us, from 1975 to 1994, Mr. Narayanan was the regional head of Tata Consultancy Services, a large consulting and software services company located in India. Mr. Narayanan serves on the board of
directors and as the Chairman of the Governance Committee of TVS Capital Funds Limited. Mr. Narayanan holds a Bachelor of Science degree, a Master of Science degree and a Management degree from the Indian Institute of Science.

(2)Francisco D’Souza was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer and became a member of the Board of Directors, effective January 1,
2007. Mr. D’Souza served as our Chief Operating Officer from December 2003 through December 2006. Prior to that, from November 1999 to December 2003, he served as our Senior Vice President, North American Operations and Business
Development. From March 1998 to November 1999, he served as our Vice President, North American Operations and Business Development and as our Director-North American Operations and Business Development from June 1997 to March 1998. From January 1996
to June 1997, Mr. D’Souza was engaged as our consultant. From February 1995 to December 1995, Mr. D’Souza was employed as Product Manager at Pilot Software. Between 1992 and 1995, Mr. D’Souza held various marketing,
business development and technology management positions as a Management Associate at The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation. While working at The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, Mr. D’Souza was part of the team that established
the software development and maintenance business conducted by us. Mr. D’Souza serves on the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Mellon University, the







Board of Trustees of The New York Hall of Science and the Board of Directors of the U.S.-India Business Council. Mr. D’Souza holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the
University of East Asia and a Master of Business Administration degree from Carnegie Mellon University.

(3)Gordon Coburn was appointed Chief Operating Officer, effective January 1, 2007. Mr. Coburn continues to serve as our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer,
positions he has held since his election in March 1998. Mr. Coburn served as our Executive Vice President from December 2003 through December 2006. From November 1999 to December 2003, he served as our Senior Vice President. He
previously was our Vice President from 1996 to November 1999. Mr. Coburn served as Senior Director—Group Finance and Operations for Cognizant Corporation from November 1996 to December 1997. From 1990 to October 1996,
Mr. Coburn held key financial positions with The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation. Mr. Coburn serves on the board of directors of Corporate Executive Board Company and TechAmerica. He also served on the board of directors of ICT
Group, Inc. until its acquisition on February 2, 2010. Mr. Coburn holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wesleyan University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College.

(4)Ramakrishnan Chandrasekaran was appointed President and Managing Director, Global Delivery in August 2006. Mr. Chandrasekaran served as our Executive Vice
President and Managing Director from January 2004 through July 2006. Prior to that, from November 1999 to January 2004, he served as our Senior Vice President responsible for the ISV relationships, key alliances, capacity growth, process
initiatives, business development and offshore delivery. Mr. Chandrasekaran joined us as Assistant Vice President in December 1994, before getting promoted to Vice President in January 1997. Mr. Chandrasekaran has more than
20 years of experience working in the IT services industry. Prior to joining us, Mr. Chandrasekaran worked with Tata Consultancy Services. Mr. Chandrasekaran holds a Mechanical Engineering degree and Master of Business Administration
degree from the Indian Institute of Management.

(5)Rajeev Mehta was appointed Chief Operating Officer, Global Client Services in August 2006 and is responsible for our sales, business development and client relationship
management organizations. Mr. Mehta, who joined Cognizant in 1997, most recently served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Financial Services Business Unit, a position he held from June 2005 to August
2006. From November 2001 to June 2005, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of our Financial Services Business Unit. From January 1998 to November 2001, Mr. Mehta served as our Director of the U.S. Central Region.
Mr. Mehta served as our Senior Manager of Business Development from January 1997 to January 1998. Prior to joining Cognizant in 1997, Mr. Mehta was involved in implementing GE Information Services offshore outsourcing program and also held
consulting positions at Deloitte & Touche and Andersen Consulting. Mr. Mehta holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Maryland and a Master of Business Administration degree from Carnegie Mellon University.

(6)Steven Schwartz was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in July 2007, having global responsibility for managing Cognizant’s legal function.
Mr. Schwartz, who joined Cognizant in 2001, most recently served as Vice President and General Counsel, a position he held from March 2003 to July 2007. From April 2002 to March 2003, he served as our Vice President and Chief Corporate Counsel.
From October 2001 to December 2002, he served as our Chief Corporate Counsel. Mr. Schwartz also serves as our Chief Legal Officer. Mr. Schwartz serves on the board of directors of Information Technology Industry Council. Mr. Schwartz
holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Miami, a Juris Doctor degree from Fordham University School of Law and an L.L.M. (in Taxation) degree from the New York University School of Law.

None of our executive officers are related to any other executive officer or to any of our Directors. Our executive officers are elected
annually by the Board of Directors and serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

Corporate History

We began our IT development and maintenance services business in early 1994, as an in-house technology development center for The
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In 1996, we, along with







certain other entities, were spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation to form a new company, Cognizant Corporation. On June 24, 1998, we completed an initial public offering
of our Class A common stock. On June 30, 1998, a majority interest in us, and certain other entities were spun-off from Cognizant Corporation to form IMS Health. Subsequently, Cognizant Corporation was renamed Nielsen Media Research,
Incorporated.

On January 30, 2003, we filed a tender offer in which IMS Health stockholders could exchange IMS Health
shares held by them for our Class B common stock held by IMS Health. On February 13, 2003, IMS Health distributed all of our Class B common stock that IMS Health owned in an exchange offer to its stockholders. On February 21, 2003,
pursuant to the terms of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all of the shares of Class B common stock automatically converted into shares of Class A common stock. Since February 21, 2003, there have been no outstanding shares of
Class B common stock. Effective May 26, 2004, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, there are no authorized shares of Class B common stock.

Available Information

We make available the following public filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, free of charge through our website atwww.cognizant.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC:



•our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and any amendments thereto;



•our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any amendments thereto; and



•our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto.

In addition, we make available our code of business conduct and ethics entitled “Cognizant’s Core Values and Standards of Business Conduct” free of charge through our website. We intend to
disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market by filing such amendment or waiver with the SEC and
posting it on our website.

No information on our Internet website is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or
any other public filing made by us with the SEC.



