Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading provider of information technology (IT), consulting and business process outsourcing services, dedicated to helping the
world’s leading companies build stronger businesses. Our clients engage us to help them build more efficient operations, provide solutions to critical business and technology problems, and to help them drive technology-based innovation and
growth. Our core competencies include: Business, Process, Operations and IT Consulting, Application Development and Systems Integration, Enterprise Information Management, or EIM, Application Testing, Application Maintenance, IT Infrastructure
Services, or IT IS, and Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing, or BPO and KPO. We tailor our services to specific industries and utilize an integrated global delivery model. This seamless global sourcing model combines client service teams
based on-site at the client locations with delivery teams located at dedicated near-shore and offshore global delivery centers that are located primarily in India, China, the United States, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Hungary, France and the
Philippines.

Industry Background

In today’s complex business environment, many companies face intense competitive pressure and rapidly changing market dynamics, driven by such factors as changes in the economy, government
regulations, globalization, virtualization and other technology innovations. At the same time, companies must evaluate the effect of emerging technologies such as social networks, mobile devices, advanced analytics and cloud computing, or SMAC, on
their business operations. These technologies represent a new IT stack that will profoundly change the way companies relate to their customers, engage with employees, and bring innovative products and services to market. In response to these
challenges, many companies are focused on improving efficiencies, enhancing effectiveness and driving innovation through technology to favorably impact both the bottom-line and the top-line. Companies need to build agility into both the cost and
revenue sides of their models. In this context, they increasingly view the global sourcing model as a key to their efforts to operate more cost-effectively and productively. Separately, to confront secular industry shifts, changing demographics and
new technologies, companies are looking to innovate and build new and different capabilities with emerging technologies to ensure their business models stay relevant.

Companies increasingly seek to meet the dual mandate of more efficient and effective operations, including cost reduction, along with technology-based innovation and business transformation in a
comprehensive, integrated manner. Achieving these objectives presents major challenges and requires companies to have highly skilled professionals trained in many diverse and new technologies and specialized industries. Increasingly, companies are
relying on service providers, like us, operating with global delivery models, to help them meet these ever-changing objectives.

Global demand for high quality, lower cost technology services from outside providers has created a significant opportunity for IT
service providers that can successfully leverage the benefits of and address the challenges in using a global talent pool. The effective use of personnel from across the globe can offer a variety of benefits, including lower costs, faster delivery
of new IT solutions and innovations in industry-specific solutions, processes and technologies. Certain countries, particularly India, the Philippines, Singapore and China, have large talent pools of highly qualified technical professionals who can
provide high quality IT and business and knowledge process outsourcing services at a lower cost. India is a leader in IT services and is regarded as having one of the largest and highest quality pools of talent in the world. Historically, IT service
providers have used offshore labor pools primarily to supplement the internal staffing needs of customers. However, evolving customer demands have led to the increasing acceptance and use of offshore resources for higher value-added services. These
services include application design, development, testing and systems integration, technology consulting and infrastructure management.







The Cognizant Approach

Our solutions are built on a global network of delivery centers, deep domain expertise and a robust portfolio of services.

Global Delivery Model.Our geographic reach extends across the globe, with more than 50 delivery centers in 14 countries. We have a four-tiered global architecture for service delivery and
operations, consisting of employees co-located at clients’ sites, local or in-country delivery centers, regional delivery centers and global delivery centers. We are continuously expanding global delivery capacity in our centers in India, China
and the Philippines. We have added more regional delivery in Europe (for example, in Hungary) and in-country delivery centers in the United States and Europe (for example, in Minot, North Dakota, Des Moines, Iowa and Grenoble, France) and have
increased our presence throughout the world. We also use our proprietary Cognizant 2.0 knowledge-sharing and project-management platform to unite all of our operations around the globe, access capabilities across the company, and streamline
workflow. Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure facilitate the seamless integration of our global workforces.

Domain Expertise.Our business is organized and managed primarily around our four industry-oriented business segments:



•Financial Services;



•Healthcare;



•Manufacturing, Retail and Logistics; and



•Other, which includes Communications, Information, Media and Entertainment, and High Technology.

This industry focus has been central to our revenue growth and high client satisfaction. As the IT services industry continues to mature,
clients are looking for service providers who understand their businesses, industry initiatives, customers, markets and cultures, and can create solutions tailored to meet their individual business needs. To strengthen our industry practices, we
hire professionals who are deeply experienced in the industries we serve, thus establishing a broad base of business analysts and consultants. We continually invest in industry training for our staff and build out industry-specific services and
solutions. This approach is central to our high levels of on-time delivery and client satisfaction, as we understand the full context of our clients’ challenges and have deep experience in addressing them.

Portfolio of Services.We offer a broad range of services designed to help clients address business challenges and enhance their
ability to pursue growth opportunities. Our key service areas, Consulting and Technology Services and Outsourcing Services, are delivered to our clients across our four business segments in a standardized, high-quality manner through our global
delivery model. We continually invest in the expansion of our service portfolio to anticipate and meet clients’ evolving needs. In recent years, in addition to our traditional offerings, we have begun to provide services that enable clients to
harness emerging SMAC technologies. Our current service areas include:



•Consulting and Technology Services



•Business, Process, Operations and IT Consulting



•Application Development and Systems Integration



•Application Testing



•Outsourcing Services



•Application Maintenance



•IT Infrastructure Services



•Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing







Business Segments

We are organized around our four industry-oriented business segments, and we report the operations of our business as follows:



Financial ServicesHealthcareManufacturing/Retail/LogisticsOtherBankingInsuranceHealthcareLife
SciencesManufacturing and LogisticsRetail, Travel and HospitalityConsumer
GoodsCommunicationsInformation,
Media and EntertainmentHigh Technology

Financial Services

Our Financial Services business segment serves leading financial institutions throughout the world. Our clients include banks, investment firms and insurance companies. In 2012, this segment represented
approximately 41.3% of our total revenues. Revenues from our Financial Services business segment were $3,035.4 million, $2,518.4 million, and $1,944.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. This business
segment provides services to our customers operating in the following industries:



•Banking. We focus on serving traditional retail and commercial banks, diversified financial enterprises, broker-dealers, asset management firms,
depositories, clearing organizations and exchanges. Our clients engage us to help make their operations as effective, productive and cost-efficient as possible, and to support new capabilities. We assist these clients in such areas as: Retail
Banking, Wholesale Banking, Consumer Lending, Cards and Payments, Risk Management, Investment Banking and Brokerage, Asset and Wealth Management, and Securities Services.

The demand for our services in the banking sector is being driven by several significant changes in the industry. In
response to the global economic crisis, central banks and government bodies have adopted policies designed to maintain low interest rates, raise capital requirements, impose new regulations, and institute risk-mitigation measures, such as
restricting proprietary trading. Such actions have the effect of curtailing some revenue sources and increasing compliance costs for most financial institutions. In addition, financial institutions must consider adopting new technologies, such as
SMAC, which will impact the way they interface with customers and employees, and how they manage their operations. We help our customers adapt to these changes by providing technology-based industry-specific solutions. In addition to Application
Development and Maintenance, the services increasingly in demand in this sector include EIM, Testing, Customer Relationship Management, or CRM, Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, BPO, IT IS, and Business and Technology Consulting.



•Insurance. We serve the needs of global property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers who turn to us
for assistance in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations and in achieving business transformation. We focus on such aspects of our clients’ operations as: Business Acquisition, Policy Administration, Claims Processing,
Management Reporting, Regulatory Compliance and Reinsurance.

Among the factors driving the
need for our services in the insurance industry is a desire to improve the sales and marketing process, both by deepening direct retail customer relationships and strengthening interactions with networks of independent and captive insurance agents,
often through the use of social and mobile technologies. Insurers also seek to enhance their profitability by differentiating their products and services, resulting in a need for specialized underwriting models and systems. Additionally, many
insurers seek to improve business effectiveness by reducing expense ratios and exiting non-core lines of business and operations. Our services which are most in demand in this sector include: Application Development and Integration, Consulting,
BPO/KPO, IT IS, EIM, and SMAC services.







Healthcare

Our Healthcare segment serves many leading healthcare and life sciences companies. In 2012, our Healthcare business segment represented approximately 26.3% of our total revenues. Revenues from our
Healthcare business segment were $1,934.9 million, $1,622.2 million, and $1,177.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. This business segment provides services to our clients operating in the following
industries:



•Healthcare.We work with many leading global healthcare organizations, including healthcare payers, providers and pharmacy benefit managers. The
healthcare industry today faces the dual challenge of improving the quality of care while lowering the cost of care and making healthcare affordable to a larger population. A key factor driving this transformation has been the Affordable Care Act.

Our Healthcare Practice focuses on providing a broad range of services and solutions to the
industry to address regulatory requirements and emerging industry trends such as: Regulatory Compliance, Integrated Health Management (including establishing health information exchanges), EIM, Claims Investigative Services (aimed at preventing
fraud and abuse and strengthening administrative processes), and Operational Improvement (in areas such as claims processing, enrollment, membership and billing). We also partner with our clients to enable their systems and processes to deal with
the retail orientation of health care, such as the support of individual mandates and the adoption of mobile and analytics solutions to improve access to health information and decision making by end consumers.



•Life Sciences.We partner with leading pharmaceutical, biotech, and medical device companies, as well as providers of generics, animal health
and consumer health products to assist them in transforming their business by helping them be more efficient and effective from an IT and business operations perspective while helping them drive innovation and virtualization in growing their
business.

Among the industry forces generating demand for our services are: financial
pressures caused by payer and government pricing pressures, patent expiry and competition from generics; the drive to expand into new geographic markets; the need for more targeted or personalized therapies leading to R&D innovation; continued
diversification of product portfolios and the related high cost of product development; and a dynamic regulatory environment with greater emphasis on product safety, ethics and compliance, transparency of pricing and promotional activity.

Our Life Sciences solutions help transform many of the business processes in the life sciences value chain
(Research, Clinical Development, Manufacturing and Supply Chain, Sales and Marketing) as well as regulatory and administrative functions and general IT. Among our services most often in demand are Consulting, EIM, Customer Solutions,
BPO/KPO, IT IS, Application Maintenance, Application Development and Systems Integration, Testing and SMAC services.

Manufacturing/Retail/Logistics

Our Manufacturing, Retail and Logistics segment provides business consulting and technology services for global leaders in a range of sub-sectors, including industrial, automotive, process logistics and
retailing. In 2012, this segment represented approximately 20.4% of our total revenues. Revenues from our Manufacturing/Retail/Logistics business segment were $1,498.7 million, $1,197.5 million, and $849.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. This business segment services customers in the following industry groups:



•Manufacturing and Logistics.Clients in this sector include manufacturers of automobiles and industrial products, and processors of natural
resources, chemicals and raw materials. In logistics, our clients include rail, truck, marine and other transportation and distribution companies. We also serve many leading energy utilities, as well as oil and gas producers. Our clients seek our
help in implementing







business-relevant changes that will make them more productive, competitive and cost-effective. To that end, we help organizations improve operational efficiencies, enhance responsiveness, and
collaborate with trading partners to better serve their markets and end customers. We leverage a comprehensive understanding of the business and technology drivers of the industry. Some of our Manufacturing and Logistics solutions for Industrial and
Automotive clients include: Warranty Management, Dealer System Integration, Supply Chain Management, Sales and Operations Planning, and Mobility. For transportation and logistics clients, our service areas include Warehouse and Yard Management,
Transportation Asset Management, Transportation Network Design, Global Trade Management and Analytics.

Industry trends that influence the demand for our services in this sector include the increasing globalization of sourcing and the desire of clients to further penetrate emerging markets, leading to
longer and more complex supply chains. In the power generation sector, industry trends include the continued drive toward energy conservation, including “smart meter” installations, the need for better grid reliability and security,
regulatory changes and the need to relieve cost pressures through better asset performance and web-based customer care systems. Clients also wish to optimize their supply chains to better manage inventory, support growing eCommerce operations and
improve customer-supplier collaboration. They seek to apply intelligent systems to manufacturing and logistics operations, enable mobile platforms to support field sales and use data analytics to make better informed decisions. These trends are
driving demand for offerings such as Enterprise Application Services, or EAS, EIM, Consulting and SMAC technologies.



•Retail, Travel and Hospitality.We serve a wide spectrum of retailers and distributors, including supermarkets, specialty premium retailers,
department stores and large mass-merchandise discounters, who seek our assistance in becoming more efficient and cost-effective and in helping to drive business transformation. Current trends affecting demand in the retail industry include a need
for greater cost-efficiency to combat the industry’s traditionally narrow profit margins, changes in supply chain management to facilitate direct store delivery, the ability to accommodate multi-channel (in-store and on-line) models, and the
impact of SMAC technologies on customer and employee interaction.

Services in high demand in
the retail sector include Consulting, eCommerce, EAS, Systems Integration, Testing, BPO/KPO and EIM. We also serve the entire travel and hospitality industry including airlines, hotels and restaurants, as well as online and retail travel, global
distribution systems and intermediaries and real estate companies, providing solutions such as CRM, EIM and BPO/KPO.



•Consumer Goods.We work with many of the world’s premier consumer goods manufacturers, creating innovative solutions and strategies that
help them build and sustain strong brands while enhancing their price-competitiveness, category leadership and consumer loyalty. Principal segments served include consumer durables, food and beverage, footwear and apparel, and home and personal care
products. Our expertise in these areas spans a wide range, from demand-driven supply chains, to revenue-creating trade promotion management systems, to analytics systems and mobility solutions that anticipate and serve ever-changing customer needs.

The demand for our services in this sector is being propelled by such factors as the need of
consumer goods companies to accelerate product innovation to remain competitive and deliver top-line growth, the continuing drive to optimize global sourcing and supply chain management, the impact of SMAC technologies on consumer interaction,
marketing and sales processes, the use of data analytics to increase the effectiveness of product development and marketing, as well as ongoing pressures to curtail IT costs. In response to these needs, we provide solutions including Application
Development and Systems Integration, Consulting, CRM, EIM, Testing, BPO, IT IS and SMAC services.







Other

The Other business segment includes the Communications, Information, Media and Entertainment, and High Technology operating segments. In 2012, our Other business segment represented approximately 12.0% of
our total revenues. Revenues from our Other business segment were $877.5 million, $783.1 million, and $621.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The Other business segment is an aggregation of
operating segments each of which, individually, represents less than 10.0% of consolidated revenues and segment operating profit. Descriptions of the key operating segments included in the Other business segment are as follows:



•Communications. Our communications industry practice serves some of the world’s leading communications service (cable, wireless and
wireline) providers, equipment vendors, and software vendors. We help our clients address the important changes in the communications industry, such as: transition to new network technologies; designing, developing, testing and introducing new
products and channels; improving customer service and increasing customer satisfaction; transforming Business Support Systems (BSSs) and Operations Support Systems (OSSs); transitioning to agile development methodologies; and enabling applications
for cloud deployment. Customer Solutions, Mobility, IT IS, Testing, ERP Implementation, EIM, and Cloud services have been in particular demand.



•Information, Media and Entertainment.We work with some of the world’s largest media and entertainment companies, including information
service providers, publishers, broadcasters, and movie, music and video game companies. The growth of digital platforms is causing significant change to these industries and we are working with clients to help meet these challenges and help
transform their businesses. Additional trends affecting the industry include a decline of traditional print publishing, the need for digital asset management and the impact of SMAC technologies on the consumption of entertainment content.

We provide services in critical areas such as the Digital Content Supply Chain and Media
Asset Management. Some of our other services include: Business Solutions (such as Advertising Management, Online Media, and e-Business); Digital Distribution, Workflow Automation; Intellectual Property Management, Anti-Piracy Initiatives; and
Operational Systems (Advertising Sales, Studio Management, Billing and Payments, Content Management and Delivery).



•High Technology. We serve some of the world’s leading independent software vendors, or ISVs, technology equipment manufacturers, and online
service providers. We assist the ISVs with their transitions to new business models (such as Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS models) and facilitate their license management and sales processes. We help the high-technology manufacturers take on
complex, transformational business process and product engineering initiatives. The technology sector is largely driven by product development. This creates strong demand for Analytical, Engineering, Testing, Go to Market strategies, and Content
Management services. Other in-demand services include CRM, Product Technical Support, Supply Chain Management and the application of SMAC technologies to the customer experience, as well as Application Development, Systems Integration and
Application Maintenance.

Our Solutions and Services

Across each of our business segments, we provide a broad and expanding range of consulting, information technology and outsourcing
services, including:

Consulting and Technology Services



•IT Strategy and Business Consulting. Our global consulting team, Cognizant Business Consulting, or CBC, helps clients re-imagine and transform
their businesses to gain competitive advantage. With these new operating models, the value chain is being disaggregated to drive speed to market and agility.







CBC is built on a foundation of deep thought leadership and actionable
strategies. CBC works with clients to improve business performance and operational productivity in order to exceed business goals. We also provide assistance with Strategy Consulting, Business and Operations Consulting, IT Strategy & Change
Management, and Program Management Consulting.

Key factors driving the demand for CBC’s services are the
following:



•The need to run the business better while increasing operational flexibility and reducing time to market;



•Optimizing big data and predictive analytics to gain competitive insight;



•Large business transformations, impacting business and IT operating models;



•Increased demands to collaborate and compete in the market for customers, capabilities and talent;



•Desire to remove roadblocks in the Business/IT relationship – to increase the return on technology investments, both directly and through
positioning IT as a source of digital business innovation;



•Readiness to embrace virtualization capabilities, including greater infrastructure outsourcing and cloud solutions, with a focus on identifying and
managing risk and cost; and



•Ongoing regulatory shifts, which require enhanced risk management and compliance frameworks, as well as greater organizational resilience.

In this environment, the services currently provided by CBC include:



•IT strategy consulting to define new IT target operating models, new delivery models and to optimize IT to business alignment, sourcing strategies and
IT costs;



•Program management consulting, including post-acquisition integration, business and IT integration, business transformation, and large scale business
transformation;



•Operations improvement consulting for business process management, operations strategy, global sourcing and supply chain management, and change
management;



•Strategy consulting with respect to re-imagining new business and operating models, market growth, mergers and acquisitions, product innovation and
sustainability initiatives; and



•Business consulting related to finance, risk advisory, human resources, marketing and analytics functions.

CBC also is expanding new services and capabilities in areas such as BPO, Supply Chain Management, Enterprise Analytics,
EAS, and consulting related to the management of core assets and intellectual property, or IP.



•Application Development and Systems Integration. We offer a full range of Application Design, Application Development and Systems Integration
services, which enable customers to focus on and invest in their core business activities and in growth-producing innovation, while ensuring that their IT functions operate in the most efficient, responsive and cost-effective manner. We have
particular depth of skills in implementing large, complex, business-critical IT development and integration programs.

Demand for our Application Development and Systems Integration services is being driven by the growing need of customers to access outside capabilities to respond to the impact of changes in markets,
regulation, competition and SMAC technologies on their businesses.

As part of our Application Development
services, we define customer requirements, write specifications and design, develop, test and integrate software across multiple platforms including Internet technologies. We modify and test applications to enable systems to function in new
operating







environments. In addition, these services include ERP and CRM implementation services. We follow one of two alternative approaches to application development and systems integration:



•full life-cycle application development, in which we assume start-to-finish responsibility for analysis, design, implementation, testing and
integration of systems; or



•cooperative development, in which our employees work with a customer’s in-house IT personnel to jointly analyze, design, implement, test and
integrate new systems.

In both of these approaches, our on-site team members work closely
and collaboratively with our clients. Detailed design, implementation and testing are generally performed at dedicated near-shore and offshore development and delivery centers. In addition, we maintain an on-site presence at each customer location
in order to address evolving client needs and resulting changes to the project.

A key part of our application
development and systems integration offering is a suite of services to help organizations build and integrate business applications with the rest of their operations. Using this suite of services, we leverage our skills in business application
development and enterprise application integration to build sophisticated business applications and to integrate these new applications and websites with client server and legacy systems. We build and deploy robust, scalable and extensible
architectures for use in a wide range of industries. We maintain competency centers specializing in various areas such as: Microsoft solutions; IBM, SAP, Oracle and Java applications; and Cloud Computing and Mobile solutions. These competency
centers enable us to provide application development and integration services to a broad spectrum of clients.

Our re-engineering service offerings assist customers migrating from systems based on legacy computing environments to
newer standards-based distribution architectures, often in response to the more stringent demands of business. Our re-engineering tools automate many of the processes required to implement advanced technology platforms. We believe that this
automation substantially reduces the time and cost to perform re-engineering services. These tools also enable us to perform source code analysis and to re-design target databases and convert certain programming languages. If necessary, our
programmers also help clients re-design and convert user interfaces.



•Enterprise Information Management.Our EIM practice focuses on helping clients harness the vast amounts of data available on their operations,
customers and markets, and to convert that data into information and insights that are valuable to their businesses and can be used to drive management decisions. We help clients identify the types of data available both within their organizations
and from outside sources, including social media, and to bring that data together in a meaningful “data to foresight” continuum. Among the trends driving this business are: the desire of companies to better understand consumer demands and
market opportunities in order to create new products and services, the explosion of differently structured types of data from newly crafted business processes, the need to manage reporting requirements in regulated industries such as healthcare and
financial services, and the pressures to manage operations more efficiently and cost-effectively through the use of analytical tools. Among the services we provide in the EIM area are the following:



•Strategic, advisory and management consulting services across Information Management, Business Intelligence & Analytics;



•Enterprise Data Management, including the creation of data warehouses, data marts, operational stores, enterprise master data management platforms,
enterprise metadata platforms as well as enterprise data governance;



•Descriptive Analytics/ Business Intelligence that involves the strategy, design, build and management of information assets that drive day to day
decision making;



•Strategic Corporate Performance Management, enabling clients to create executive dashboards or scorecards to better manage operations;







•Packaged Analytics designed to provide solutions to specific business problems leveraging technologies such as Mobile and Cloud; and



•Big Data to assist clients in managing and deriving actionable insights from the explosion in the volume, variety, velocity and complexity of data.





•



Application Testing



•Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud-based Services.We are aiding clients in adapting social, mobile, analytics and cloud-based (SMAC)
technologies to their businesses. Such new technologies are becoming fundamental components of the enterprise IT architecture. These technologies are profoundly changing the way companies relate to their customers, interact with employees, and bring
products and services to market. As such, the SMAC stack holds the promise of innovation and the potential for innovation-driven top line growth and efficiencies that improve the bottom line. We help clients analyze social media sentiment and build
those insights into their customer relationship management process. In other cases, we are enabling clients to manage and analyze vast accumulations of data and to use that data to drive management decisions. We also offer end-to-end services to
enable cloud-based processes, from consulting and implementation to ongoing support activities.

Outsourcing Services



•Application Maintenance. Our Application Maintenance service offering supports some or all of a client’s applications, ensuring that
systems remain operational and responsive to changing user requirements and provide on-going enhancements as required by the client. Beyond the traditional view of IT outsourcing as a cost-saving measure, our Application Maintenance services enable
clients to improve the overall agility, responsiveness, productivity and efficiency of their IT infrastructure. Increasingly, we also are assisting clients in adapting their IT systems to SMAC technologies.

By supporting some or all of a client’s applications, our services help ensure that a user’s core operational
systems are free of defects and responsive to changing needs. As part of this process, we are often able to introduce product and process enhancements and improve service levels to customers requesting modifications and on-going support. We also
provide Application Value Management Solutions that can help balance cost, complexity and capacity and can help clients reduce cost of ownership, improve service levels and create new operational efficiencies.

Our global delivery business model enables us to provide a range of rapid response and cost-effective support services to
our clients. Our on-site team members often provide help-desk services at the client’s facility. These team members typically are available in the event of an emergency service







request and are able to quickly resolve customer problems from remote locations. In the case of more complex maintenance services, including modifications, enhancements and documentation, which
typically have longer turnaround times, we take full advantage of our offshore resources to develop solutions more cost-effectively than would be possible relying on higher cost local professionals.

As part of our Application Maintenance services, we assist clients in renovating their core systems to meet the
requirements imposed by new regulations, new standards or other external events. We seek to anticipate the operational environment of our clients’ IT systems as we design and develop such systems. We also offer diagnostic services to clients to
assist them in identifying shortcomings in their IT systems and optimizing the performance of their systems.



•IT Infrastructure Services. We provide end-to-end IT Infrastructure Management Outsourcing services and anticipate growing demand for these
services in the coming years. We provide service capability in redundant Global Operating Centers, or GOCs, worldwide, through which we are able to provide significant scale, quality and cost savings to our clients in IT IS. Clients are increasingly
seeking IT IS to sharpen their focus on core business operations, reallocate overhead costs to growth investments, enable businesses to respond more quickly to changing demands, decrease time to market, ensure that the IT infrastructure can scale as
the business evolves, and access skill sets that lie outside the organization. The major services we provide include Data Center, Infrastructure Security, Network and Convergence, End-User Computing Services, and Mobility. We also have a new set of
Cloud Services offerings that embrace virtualization technologies across delivery solutions including private cloud, enterprise multi-tenant cloud and public cloud models.



•Business and Knowledge Process Outsourcing.We provide BPO/KPO services through unique industry-aligned solutions that integrate process, domain
and technology expertise to enable our clients to respond in a nimble and flexible manner to market opportunities and challenges, while also creating variable cost structures to drive greater effectiveness and cost-efficiency. We have extensive
domain-specific expertise in core front office, middle office and back office functions including, but not limited to: Finance and Accounting, Procurement, Data Administration, Data Management, and Research and Analytics. Our industry-specific
solutions include clinical data management, pharmacovigilance, equity research support, commercial operations and order management. In addition to BPO, related services include Consulting to ensure process excellence, and a range of platform-based
services. Our goals for our client relationships are customer satisfaction, operational productivity, strategic value, and business transformation. Among the factors driving growth in our services are the desire to improve cost-effectiveness, the
emergence of SMAC technologies, and the need for clients to access capabilities beyond their organizations to adapt to rapid changes in technologies, markets and customer demands.

Business Strategies

Our
objectives are to maximize stockholder value and enhance our position as a leading provider of information technology, consulting and business process outsourcing services. We implement the following core strategies to achieve these objectives:

Growth through Reinvestment. Historically, we have invested our profit above the 19% to 20% non-GAAP operating margin level, excluding
stock-based compensation expense, back into our business. We believe this to be a significant contributing factor to our strong revenue growth. This investment is primarily focused in the areas of: strengthening and expanding our portfolio of
services; continuing to expand our geographic presence for both sales and delivery; hiring client partners and relationship personnel with specific industry experience or domain expertise; training our technical staff in a broader range of service
offerings; recognizing and rewarding exceptional performance by our employees; and maintaining a level of resources, trained in a broad range of service offerings, to be well positioned to respond to our client requests, as described below.



•Expand Service Offerings and Solutions: We have several teams dedicated to creating technology-based innovative solutions and developing new,
high value services. The teams collaborate with







customers to develop these services. For example, we are currently developing new offerings in Business and IT Consulting and industry-oriented IT solutions atop innovative technologies. We
invest in internal research and development and promote knowledge building and sharing across the organization to advance the development of new services and solutions. Furthermore, we continue to enhance our capabilities and service offerings in
the areas of CRM, ERP, EIM, Software Testing, Infrastructure Management, industry-oriented BPO services and SMAC technologies.

We believe that the continued expansion of our service offerings will provide new sources of revenue, reduce our reliance on any one technology initiative and help foster long-term relationships with our
customers by allowing us to better serve their needs. Additionally, as part of our vision to continue our growth and anticipate our clients’ and the markets’ rapidly changing demands in the near-term, mid-term and long-term, we are
investing in emerging opportunities which seek to transform client and user platforms to internet, cloud and mobile-based experiences.



•Expand Domestic and International Geographic Presence: We have established sales and marketing offices in various metropolitan areas in the
United States and internationally. As we expand our customer base, we plan to open additional sales and marketing offices in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, and the Middle East. This expansion is expected to facilitate sales and services
to existing and new customers.



•Research and Development and Competency Centers: We have project experience and expertise across multiple architectures and technologies, and
have made significant investments in our competency centers and in research and development to keep abreast of the latest technology developments. Most of our technical staff is trained in multiple technologies and architectures. As a result, we are
able to react to clients’ needs quickly and efficiently redeploy our technical staff to different technologies. Also, to develop and maintain this flexibility, we have made a substantial investment in our competency centers so that the
experience gained from particular projects and research and development efforts is leveraged across our entire organization. Through our investment in research and development activities and the continuing education of our technical personnel, we
enlarge our knowledge base and develop the necessary skills to keep pace with emerging technologies. We believe that our ability to work in new technologies allows us to foster long-term relationships by having the capacity to continually address
the needs of both existing and new clients.





•



Enhance Processes, Methodologies and Productivity Toolsets

We
have invested considerably in automation to improve process institutionalization across the organization. For example, we have built and deployed “Cognizant 2.0,” an intelligent delivery ecosystem which orchestrates processes,
methodologies and best practices driving effective usage of







knowledge, while providing a collaborative framework for our world-wide client service personnel. Our process framework has been extensively adapted to cater to different types of projects
managed by the organization across different service lines, such as Application Development, Managed Services, Application Testing, BPO and IT IS.

Global Delivery Model.We have a four-tiered global architecture for service delivery and operations, consisting of employees co-located at clients’ sites, local or in-country delivery
centers, regional delivery centers and global delivery centers. Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure facilitate the seamless integration of our global workforces. This is accomplished by permitting team members in
different locations to access common project information and to work directly on client projects. This infrastructure allows for rapid completion of projects, highest level of quality, efficient use of clients’ technological resources and
real-time access to project information by the on-site account manager or the client. In addition, for large projects with short time frames, our offshore facilities allow for parallel processing of various development phases to accelerate delivery
time.



•Two-in-a-Box: Our proprietary client engagement model, called Two-in-a-Box™, or TIB, represents our commitment to providing superior
service to help our clients reduce IT operational costs, embrace best practices and undergo sustainable business transformation. Centered on the needs of the client’s organization, TIB is designed specifically to help the client quickly reduce
IT budgets, revamp IT operations and re-deploy freed-up assets to more strategic initiatives that generate business value. The TIB model begins with a relationship management team, led by the Client Partner, or CP, with deep industry expertise,
working onsite to absorb the client’s culture, operational processes, challenges and business goals and to assist with strategic planning. Another critical TIB team member is the dedicated global delivery manager, or DM. The relationship
between the CP and DM is essential to ensure that our IT services are delivered with precision and that they are tailored to each client’s unique needs.



•Highly-Skilled Workforce: Our managers and senior technical personnel provide in-depth project management expertise to clients. To maintain this
level of expertise, we place significant emphasis on recruiting and training our workforce of highly-skilled professionals. We have approximately 19,600 project managers and senior service delivery staff around the world, many of whom have
significant work experience in North America, Europe and Asia. We also maintain programs and personnel to hire and train the best available technical professionals in both legacy systems and emerging technologies. We provide extensive combined
classroom and on-the-job training to newly-hired technical staff, as well as additional annual training programs designed to enhance the business practices, tools, technology and consulting skills of our professional staff.



•Continue to be an Employer of Choice in the Industry: As a rapidly growing professional services firm, a key attribute of our continued success
is the ability to continually hire, assimilate, motivate and retain the best talent possible in the industry. We have developed strong relationships with key universities around the world, particularly in India, to provide a continual pipeline of
talented staff from Tier One schools. In addition, we have established an active lateral recruiting program in North America, Europe and India and an on-campus recruiting program in North America. We continue to expand our presence and brand in our
key supply markets, further enhancing our ability to hire experienced professionals from competing IT services firms and industry to support our client needs and growth. We invest heavily in training programs, motivational programs and career
development to ensure personal professional growth for each of our employees.







Further Develop Long-Term Client Relationships. We have strong long-term strategic
relationships with our clients and business partners. We seek to establish long-term relationships that present recurring revenue opportunities, frequently trying to establish relationships with our clients’ chief information officers, or other
IT and business decision makers, by offering a wide array of cost-effective high quality services. Approximately 98% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 were derived from clients who had been using our services at the end of
2011. We also seek to leverage our experience with a client’s IT systems into new business opportunities. Knowledge of a client’s processes and IT systems gained during the performance of application maintenance services, for example, may
provide us with a competitive advantage in securing additional maintenance, development and other projects from that client.

Pursue Selective Strategic Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Strategic Alliances. We believe that opportunities continue to exist
in the fragmented market in which we operate to expand our business through selective strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances. We believe that acquisition and joint venture candidates may enable us to expand our geographic
presence, service offering and capabilities more rapidly. For example, in late 2012, we completed an acquisition of Medicall Inc., an offshore provider of outsourced clinical services focused on the healthcare sector. The services require clinical
licensure and expertise. As part of the transaction, we acquired over 600 U.S.-licensed nurses located primarily in the Philippines. This acquisition allows us to expand our BPO expertise within the healthcare industry. Finally, we expect to
continue to form strategic alliances with select IT service firms that offer complementary services to best meet the requirements of our clients.

Sales and Marketing

We market and sell our services directly through our
professional staff, senior management and direct sales personnel operating out of our Teaneck, New Jersey headquarters and our business development offices which are strategically located in various metropolitan areas around the world. The sales and
marketing group works with our client delivery team as the sales process moves closer to the customer’s selection of a services provider. The duration of the sales process varies depending on the type of service, ranging from approximately two
months to over one year.

Customers

The number of customers served by us has increased significantly in recent years. As of December 31, 2012, we were providing services to approximately 821 clients, as compared to approximately 785
clients as of December 31, 2011, and approximately 712 clients as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2012, we increased the number of strategic clients to 214. We define a strategic client as one offering the potential to
generate at least $5 million to $50 million or more in annual revenues at maturity. Accordingly, we provide a significant volume of services to many customers in each of our business segments. Therefore, a loss of a significant customer or
a few significant customers in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for such segment. However, no individual customer exceeded 10.0% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. In
addition, the services we provide to our larger customers are often critical to the operations of such customers and a termination of our services generally would require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. For the years
ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, 79.4%, 78.5%, and 78.0% of our revenue, respectively, was from North American customers.

For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived our revenues from the following business segments: 41.3% from Financial Services, 26.3% from Healthcare, 20.4% from Manufacturing/Retail/Logistics and
12.0% from Other.







We generally provide our services on a time-and-material, fixed price, or per-transaction
basis. The volume of work performed for specific customers is likely to vary from year to year, and a significant customer in one year may not use our services in a subsequent year. Presented in the table below is additional information about our
customers.



Year Ended December 31,201220112010Revenues from top five customers as a percentage of total revenues14.0%16.3%17.9%Revenues from top ten customers as a percentage of total revenues25.0%27.7%30.3%Revenues under fixed-bid contracts as a percentage of total revenues33.1%31.7%31.5%

Competition

The intensely competitive IT services and outsourcing market includes a large number of participants and is subject to rapid change. This market includes participants from a variety of market segments,
including:



•systems integration firms;



•contract programming companies;



•application software companies;



•traditional large consulting firms;



•the professional services groups of computer equipment companies; and



•facilities management and outsourcing companies.

Our direct competitors include, among others, Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Genpact, HCL Technologies, HP Enterprise (formerly Electronic Data Systems), IBM Global Services, Infosys
Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro. In addition, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate.

Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and/or greater name recognition. The principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our services
include:



•performance and reliability;



•quality of technical support, training and services;



•responsiveness to customer needs;



•reputation and experience;



•financial stability and strong corporate governance; and



•competitive pricing of services.

We rely on the following to compete effectively:



•a well-developed recruiting, training and retention model;



•a successful service delivery model;



•a broad referral base;



•continual investment in process improvement and knowledge capture;



•investment in infrastructure and research and development;



•financial stability and strong corporate governance;







•continued focus on responsiveness to customer needs, quality of services, competitive prices; and



•project management capabilities and technical expertise.

Intellectual Property

We provide value to our clients based, in part, on
our proprietary innovations, methodologies, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property. We recognize the importance of intellectual property and its ability to differentiate us from our competitors. We rely on a combination of
intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service
marks, domain names, and copyrights. As of December 31, 2012, we have also applied for or obtained a total of 299 trademark registrations in 60 countries. In addition, we have filed 9 U.S. and international patent applications covering
certain of our proprietary technology. Although the company believes the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on the ownership thereof,
the company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel.

Employees

We finished the year 2012 with approximately 156,700 employees. We employed approximately 124,100 persons in the Asia
Pacific region, approximately 27,300 persons in various locations throughout North America and Latin America and approximately 5,300 persons in various locations throughout Europe, principally in the United Kingdom. We are not party to any
significant collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Our Executive Officers

The following table identifies our current executive officers:



NameAgeCapacities in Which ServedIn CurrentPosition SinceLakshmi Narayanan(1)59Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors2007Francisco D’Souza(2)44Chief Executive Officer2007Gordon Coburn(3)49President2012Karen McLoughlin(4)48Chief Financial Officer2012Ramakrishnan Chandrasekaran(5)55Group Chief Executive – Technology and Operations2012Rajeev Mehta(6)46Group Chief Executive – Industry and Markets2012Malcolm Frank(7)46Executive Vice President, Strategy and Marketing2012Steven Schwartz(8)45Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary2007



(1)Lakshmi Narayanan was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2007. Mr. Narayanan served as our Chief Executive Officer from
December 2003 through December 2006 and as our President from March 1998 through December 2006. Mr. Narayanan joined our Indian subsidiary as Chief Technology Officer in 1994 and was elected President of such subsidiary on January 1, 1996.
Prior to joining us, from 1975 to 1994, Mr. Narayanan was the regional head of Tata Consultancy Services, a large consulting and software services company located in India. Mr. Narayanan serves on the board of directors and as the Chairman
of the Governance Committee of TVS Capital Funds Limited. Mr. Narayanan holds a Bachelor of Science degree, a Master of Science degree and a Management degree from the Indian Institute of Science.







(2)

(3)Gordon Coburn was appointed President of the company, effective February 6, 2012. From March 1998 until February 6, 2012, Mr. Coburn served as the
company’s Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and from January 2007 until February 6, 2012, Mr. Coburn also held the position of Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Coburn also served as the company’s Executive Vice President
from December 2003 through December 2006. From November 1999 to December 2003, he served as our Senior Vice President. He previously was our Vice President from 1996 to November 1999. Mr. Coburn served as Senior Director—Group Finance and
Operations for Cognizant Corporation from November 1996 to December 1997. From 1990 to October 1996, Mr. Coburn held key financial positions with The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation. Mr. Coburn serves on the board of directors of The
Corporate Executive Board Company and TechAmerica. He also served on the board of directors of ICT Group, Inc. until its acquisition on February 2, 2010. Mr. Coburn holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wesleyan University and a Master of
Business Administration degree from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College.

(4)

(5)Ramakrishnan Chandrasekaran was appointed Group Chief Executive – Technology and Operations, effective February 6, 2012. In this role,
Mr. Chandrasekaran is responsible for leading our solutions and delivery teams world-wide. From August 2006 to February 2012, he served as our President and Managing Director, Global Delivery, responsible for leading our global delivery
organization, spearheading new solutions, and championing process improvements. Mr. Chandrasekaran served as our Executive Vice







President and Managing Director from January 2004 through July 2006. Prior to that, from November 1999 to January 2004, he served as our Senior Vice President responsible for Independent Software
Vendor, or ISV, relationships, key alliances, capacity growth, process initiatives, business development and offshore delivery. Mr. Chandrasekaran joined us as Assistant Vice President in December 1994, before being promoted to Vice President
in January 1997. Prior to joining us, Mr. Chandrasekaran worked with Tata Consultancy Services. Mr. Chandrasekaran holds a Mechanical Engineering degree and Master of Business Administration degree from the Indian Institute of Management.

(6)Rajeev Mehta was appointed Group Chief Executive – Industries and Markets, effective February 6, 2012. In this role, Mr. Mehta is responsible for leading
our industry vertical and geographic market operations on a global basis. From August 2006 to February 2012, he served as our Chief Operating Officer, Global Client Services, responsible for our sales, business development and client relationship
management organizations. Mr. Mehta, who joined Cognizant in 1997, most recently served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Financial Services Business Unit, a position he held from June 2005 to August 2006. From November 2001
to June 2005, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of our Financial Services Business Unit. From January 1998 to November 2001, Mr. Mehta served as our Director of the U.S. Central Region. Mr. Mehta served as our Senior
Manager of Business Development from January 1997 to January 1998. Prior to joining Cognizant in 1997, Mr. Mehta was involved in implementing GE Information Services offshore outsourcing program and also held consulting positions at
Deloitte & Touche and Andersen Consulting. Mr. Mehta holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Maryland and a Master of Business Administration degree from Carnegie Mellon University.

(7)Malcolm Frank was appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy and Marketing, effective February 6, 2012. In this role, Mr. Frank is responsible for shaping
our corporate strategy and global. Mr. Frank served as our Senior Vice President of Strategy and Marketing from August 2005 to February 2012. In both these roles, Mr. Frank’s responsibilities have included, and continue to include,
directing all aspects of our corporate marketing function, including strategy and branding, industry and media relations, corporate communications and corporate marketing. From August 2005 until June 2009, Mr. Frank was also responsible for
leading our field marketing function. Prior to joining Cognizant in August 2005, Mr. Frank was co-founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of CXO Systems, Inc., an independent software vendor providing dashboard solutions for senior
managers, from March 2002 to July 2005. From June 1999 to September 2002, Mr. Frank was the founder, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Nervewire Inc. (“Nervewire”), a management consulting and systems integration
firm. Prior to founding Nervewire, Mr. Frank was a co-founder, executive officer, and Senior Vice President at Cambridge Technology Partners, where he ran Worldwide Marketing, Business Development, and several business units, from January 1990
to June 1999. Mr. Frank graduated from Yale University with a degree in Economics.

(8)Steven Schwartz was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in July 2007, having global responsibility for managing Cognizant’s legal function.
Mr. Schwartz, who joined Cognizant in 2001, most recently served as Vice President and General Counsel, a position he held from March 2003 to July 2007. From April 2002 to March 2003, he served as our Vice President and Chief Corporate Counsel.
From October 2001 to December 2002, he served as our Chief Corporate Counsel. Mr. Schwartz also serves as our Chief Legal Officer. Mr. Schwartz serves on the board of directors of Information Technology Industry Council and Citizen
Schools. Mr. Schwartz holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Miami, a Juris Doctor degree from Fordham University School of Law and a Master of Law (in Taxation) degree from the New York University School of
Law.

None of our executive officers are related to any other executive officer or to any of our Directors. Our
executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.







Corporate History

We began our IT development and maintenance services business in early 1994, as an in-house technology development center for The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In 1996,
we, along with certain other entities, were spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation to form a new company, Cognizant Corporation. On June 24, 1998, we completed an initial public offering of our Class A common stock. On
June 30, 1998, a majority interest in us, and certain other entities were spun-off from Cognizant Corporation to form IMS Health. Subsequently, Cognizant Corporation was renamed Nielsen Media Research, Incorporated.

On January 30, 2003, we filed a tender offer in which IMS Health stockholders could exchange IMS Health shares held by them for our
Class B common stock held by IMS Health. On February 13, 2003, IMS Health distributed all of our Class B common stock that IMS Health owned in an exchange offer to its stockholders. On February 21, 2003, pursuant to the terms of our
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all of the shares of Class B common stock automatically converted into shares of Class A common stock. Since February 21, 2003, there have been no outstanding shares of Class B common stock. Effective
May 26, 2004, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, there are no authorized shares of Class B common stock.

Available
Information

We make available the following public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, free
of charge through our website atwww.cognizant.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC:



•our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and any amendments thereto;



•our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any amendments thereto; and



•our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto.

In addition, we make available our code of business conduct and ethics entitled “Cognizant’s Core Values and Standards of Business Conduct” free of charge through our website. We intend to
disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market by posting it on our website.

No information on our website is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or any other public filing made by us with the SEC.







