ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

State Street Corporation, or the parent company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The parent company provides financial and managerial support to our legal and operating subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, or State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide.

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had consolidated total assets of$222.58 billion, consolidated total deposits of$164.18 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of$20.87 billionand29,660employees. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).  We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

We make available through our website atwww.statestreet.com, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the Examining & Audit Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on our website.



BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

Overview

We are a leader in providing financial services and products to meet the needs of institutional investors worldwide, with$24.37 trillionof assets under custody and administration and$2.09 trillionof assets under management as ofDecember 31, 2012. Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers.

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust and custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients.

Significant Developments

In March 2012, subsequent to the Federal Reserve's review of our2012capital plan, we publicly announced Board approval of a common stock purchase program, under which we are authorized to purchase up to$1.80 billionof our common stock through March 31, 2013.  From April 1 throughDecember 31, 2012, we purchased approximately33.4 millionshares of our common stock, all under this program, at an aggregate cost of$1.44 billion.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, approximately$360 millionremained available for purchase under the program.  In addition, in2012, we declared quarterly dividends totaling$0.96per share, or approximately$456 million, on our common stock.  Each quarterly dividend declared in 2012 was$0.24per share, representing a 33% increase per share over each quarterly dividend declared in2011.  Additional information with respect to our common stock purchase and dividend actions is provided under “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

In October 2012, we completed our acquisition of Goldman Sachs Administration Services, or GSAS, a global hedge-fund administrator with approximately$200 billionof hedge-fund assets under administration.  We provide a comprehensive suite of middle office, fund administration, risk analytics and credit services to hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate funds and institutional investors, and these broad service offerings are now available to GSAS clients.  Additional information about this acquisition is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

In December2012, we recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of$133 millionassociated with targeted staff reductions announced in January 2013 and expected to be substantially completed during 2013.  The targeted staff reductions, which were









separate from staff reductions associated with our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, were undertaken to better align our expenses to our business strategy and related outlook for 2013, and will involve the elimination of approximately630positions worldwide.  More detailed information about these charges, as well as charges associated with other expense control measures and with the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, is provided under “Consolidated Results of Operations - Expenses” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

In connection with the implementation of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, we achieved approximately$86 millionof pre-tax expense savings in2011, compared to our total 2010 expenses from operations.  In2012, we achieved additional pre-tax expense savings of approximately$112 millioncompared to the same expense base.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, we have achieved cumulative pre-tax expense savings of approximately$198 millionsince the program's inception in 2010.  These pre-tax expense savings relate only to the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and are based on improvement from our total 2010 expenses from operations.  Our actual total expenses have increased from 2010, and may in the future increase or decrease, due to other factors.   Additional information with respect to the program is provided under “Consolidated Results of Operations - Expenses” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Additional Information

Additional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow. For information about our management of capital, liquidity, market risk, including interest-rate risk, and other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to Risk Factors included under Item 1A, Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



LINES OF BUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management.

Investment Servicing

Our Investment Servicing business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, payment and settlement services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments.

Our Investment Servicing products and services include: custody; deposit-taking; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics.

We are the largest provider of mutual fund custody and accounting services in the U.S., based on asset rankings published in the 2012 Mutual Fund Service Guide.  We distinguish ourselves from other mutual fund service providers by offering clients a broad array of integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we calculated approximately39.5%of the U.S. mutual fund prices provided to NASDAQ that appeared daily inThe Wall Street Journaland other publications with an accuracy rate of99.94%. We serviced U.S. tax-exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds, and we provided trust and valuation services for more than5,800daily-priced portfolios as ofDecember 31, 2012.

We are a service provider outside of the U.S. as well.  In Germany, Italy, France and Luxembourg, we provide depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation) for retail and institutional fund assets, as well as custody and other services to pension plans and other institutional clients. In the U.K., we provide custody services for pension fund assets and administration services for mutual fund assets. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we serviced approximately$914 billionof offshore assets, primarily domiciled in Ireland, Luxembourg and Canada. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had$1.11 trillionin assets under administration in the Asia/Pacific region, and in Japan, we held approximately96%of the trust assets held by non-domestic trust banks.

We are an alternative asset servicing provider worldwide, servicing hedge, private equity and real estate funds. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we serviced approximately$1.12 trillionof alternative assets under administration, including the acquired GSAS business.









Investment Management

We provide our Investment Management services through State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA. SSgA provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and other related services, such as securities finance. SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income securities. SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as theSPDR®ETFbrand.  SSgA provides this array of investment management strategies, specialized investment management advisory services and other financial services for corporations, public funds, and other sophisticated investors.

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under “Line of Business Information” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and in note24to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment and face global competition in all areas of our business. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, leasing companies, and business service and software companies. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world.

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. For Investment Servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, required levels of capital and price drive competition, and are critical to our servicing business. For Investment Management, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price.

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients.



SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

State Street is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking, or to managing or controlling banks. These limits also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to “control” for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.

The parent company is qualified, and has elected to become, a financial holding company, which increases to some extent the scope of activities in which it may engage. A financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act and Federal Reserve implementing rules and interpretations, and therefore State Street may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities that are financial in nature, either

de novo

or by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; merchant banking, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our depository subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as judged by regulators, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, is having and will continue to have a significant effect on the regulatory structure of the financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricted proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions, created a new









framework for the regulation of derivative instruments, altered the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities, and revised the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's, or FDIC’s, assessment base for determining premiums for insured deposits. In addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III capital and liquidity standards (refer to “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K) and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the adoption of European Union derivatives initiatives, and revisions to the European collective investment fund, or UCITS, directive.

Additional information about the Dodd-Frank Act and other new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business is provided in Risk Factors included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K, in particular the risk factor titled “We face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, current and future capital rules, including the Basel III capital and liquidity standards, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance.”

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.

Regulatory Capital Adequacy

Like other bank holding companies, we and our depository institution subsidiaries are subject to the current mandatory minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines, referred to as Basel I.  As noted above, our status as a financial holding company also requires that we and our depository institution subsidiaries maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels. As ofDecember 31, 2012, our regulatory capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory capital levels of State Street Bank, our principal depository institution subsidiary, exceeded the currently applicable minimum capital requirements under Basel I and the requirements we must meet for the parent company to qualify as a financial holding company.

We are currently in the qualification period that is required to be completed prior to our full implementation of the Basel II final rules (refer to “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for more information about Basel II).  During the qualification period, we must demonstrate that we comply with the Basel II final rules to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve. During or subsequent to this qualification period, the Federal Reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the final rules and may require us to take certain actions to achieve compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our capital structure, our regulatory capital ratios or our financial performance.

Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory rules to be adopted for the implementation of Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to result in an increase in the minimum regulatory capital that we will be required to maintain and changes in the manner in which our regulatory capital ratios are calculated. In addition, we are currently designated as a large bank holding company subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards, commonly referred to as a “systemically important financial institution,” or SIFI, and we are one among a group of 28 institutions worldwide that have been identified by the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision as “global systemically important banks,” or G-SIBs. Both of these designations will require us to hold incrementally higher regulatory capital compared to financial institutions without such designations. As a SIFI, we were also required under the Dodd-Frank Act to prepare a recovery and resolution plan, known as a “living will,” the initial version of which we filed with the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on October 1, 2012.

U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance with respect to the regulatory capital rules under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act.  In June 2012, three concurrent Notices of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPRs, were issued to implement the Basel III framework in the U.S. These proposed rules revise both the currently applicable regulatory capital requirements (Basel I), as well as specific provisions of the Basel II-based regulatory capital requirements and, together with relevant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act, restructure the U.S. capital rules into a harmonized and comprehensive capital framework.

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of deposit insurance of State Street Bank by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business that are described above in this “Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to Risk Factors included under Item 1A, “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and note15to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.









Subsidiaries

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.

Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch. Other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve System or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they are located. As ofDecember 31, 2012, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum legal capital requirements set by those regulatory authorities.

The parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to the parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries, on the other. Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank’s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements.

Federal law also provides that certain transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies. Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.

SSgA Funds Management, Inc., or SSgA FM, and State Street Global Advisors Limited, or SSgA Ltd., act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  SSgA FM, incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  SSgA Ltd., incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. SSgA Ltd. is also authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, and is licensed as an investment firm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.  SSgA FM and SSgA Ltd. each offer a variety of asset management solutions, including active, enhanced and passive equity, active and passive fixed-income, cash management, multi-asset class solution and real estate.  In addition, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities.

Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC’s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. The U.K. broker/dealer operates through our subsidiary, State Street Global Markets International Limited, which subsidiary is registered in the U.K. as a regulated securities broker, and is authorized and regulated by the FSA.  It is also a member of the London Stock Exchange.  In accordance with the rules of the FSA, the U.K. broker/dealer publishes information on its risk management objectives and on policies associated with its regulatory capital requirements and resources. Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders.

Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject to regulation by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to ERISA and is regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, the FSA, the London Stock Exchange, and the Euronext.Liffe regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers









Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan.  We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations. However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to regulation.

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through the parent company or through non-banking subsidiaries of the parent company) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries.

We are subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency provisions and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.

We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute. Requirements of the statute include, among other things, prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve guidelines, which were codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. This requirement means that the parent company is expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which it otherwise might not do so absent such requirement. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by the parent company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.



ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions. We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the European Central Bank.



STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

“Investment Securities” section included in Management's Discussion and Analysis and note4, “Investment Securities,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).

Note1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.









“Loans and Leases” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note5, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.

“Loans and Leases” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis - disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.

“Credit Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note5, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management’s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information.

Note9, “Short-Term Borrowings,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.





