ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

State Street Corporation, the parent company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The parent company provides financial and managerial support to our legal and operating subsidiaries.  Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had consolidated total assets of$243.29 billion, consolidated total deposits of$182.27 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of$20.38 billionand29,430employees.  Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).  We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

We make available on the “Investor Relations” section of our corporate website atwww.statestreet.com, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.  We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only.  Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the Examining & Audit Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees.  Each of these documents is posted on our website.

We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to market risk associated with our trading activities, and summary results of semi-annual State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, on the “Investor Relations” section of our website.



BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

Overview

We are a leader in providing financial services and products to meet the needs of institutional investors worldwide, with$27.43 trillionof assets under custody and administration and$2.35 trillionof assets under management as ofDecember 31, 2013.  Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers.

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792.  State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.  State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust and custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients.

Additional Information

Additional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow.  For information about our management of credit and counterparty risk; liquidity risk; operational risk; market risk associated with our trading activities; market risk associated with our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities, primarily composed of interest-rate risk; and capital, as well as other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to “Risk Factors” included under Item 1A, the “Financial Condition” section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or Management's Discussion and Analysis, included under Item 7, and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.









LINES OF BUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management.

Investment Servicing

Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, payment and settlement services.  Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe.  As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments.

Our investment servicing products and services include: custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics.

We provide mutual fund custody and accounting services in the U.S.  We offer clients a broad range of integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration.  We service U.S. tax-exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds, and we provide trust and valuation services for daily-priced portfolios.

We are a service provider outside of the U.S. as well.  In Germany, Italy, France and Luxembourg, we provide depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation) for retail and institutional fund assets, as well as custody and other services to pension plans and other institutional clients.  In the U.K., we provide custody services for pension fund assets and administration services for mutual fund assets.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we serviced approximately $1.26 trillion of offshore assets in funds located primarily in Luxembourg, Ireland, the Cayman Islands and Canada.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we serviced$1.15 trillionof assets under administration in the Asia/Pacific region, and in Japan, we serviced approximately 97% of the trust assets serviced by non-domestic trust banks.

We are an alternative asset servicing provider worldwide, servicing hedge, private equity and real estate funds.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.25 trillion of alternative assets under administration.

Investment Management

We provide our Investment Management services through State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA.  SSgA provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other sophisticated investors.  SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income securities.  SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the SPDR®ETF brand.

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under “Line of Business Information” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and in note25to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.

COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment and face global competition in all areas of our business.  Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, business service and software companies and information services firms.   As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world.

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business.  For Investment Servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, required levels of capital and price drive competition, and are critical to our servicing business.  For Investment Management, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price.









Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

State Street is registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.  The Bank Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking, or to managing or controlling banks.  These limits also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to “control” for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares.  The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes.  The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.



Reinvestment Act obligations.  Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature.

The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and supervision of bank holding companies, banks and other financial institutions.  The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: established the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions; enacted new restrictions on proprietary trading and private-fund investment activities by banks and their affiliates, commonly known as the “Volcker rule” (refer to our discussion of the Volcker rule provided below under “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards” in this “Supervision and Regulation” section); created a new framework for the regulation of derivatives and the entities that engage in derivatives trading; altered the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities; revised the assessment base that is used by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, to calculate deposit insurance premiums; and required large financial institutions to develop plans for their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure.

In addition, regulatory change is being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III capital and liquidity standards (refer to “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards” below in this “Supervision and Regulation” section and “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III) and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, or AIFMD, the European Market Infrastructure Resolution, or EMIR, anticipated revisions to the European collective investment fund, or UCITS, directive, revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MIFID, and ongoing review of European Union data protection regulation.

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations.  Some aspects of our public disclosure,









corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.

Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards

Like other U.S. bank holding companies, we and our depository institution subsidiaries are subject to the current U.S. minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines, referred to as Basel I.  As noted above, the status of our parent company as a financial holding company also requires that we and our depository institution subsidiaries maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, our regulatory capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory capital levels of State Street Bank, our principal banking subsidiary, exceeded the currently applicable minimum capital requirements under Basel I and the requirements we must meet for the parent company to qualify as a financial holding company.

In 2004, the Basel Committee released an enhanced capital adequacy framework, referred to as Basel II.  Basel II requires large and internationally active banking organizations, such as State Street, which generally rely on sophisticated risk management and measurement systems, to better align the use of those systems with their determination of regulatory capital requirements.  In 2007, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued final rules to implement the Basel II framework in the U.S.  The framework does not supersede or change the existing prompt corrective action and leverage capital requirements applicable to banking organizations in the U.S., and explicitly reserves the regulators' authority to require organizations to hold additional capital where appropriate.

In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, or Basel Committee, reached an agreement on the Basel III capital standards, which are designed to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital and enhance the risk coverage of the regulatory capital framework.  Basel III also introduces an internationally-agreed-upon leverage ratio that serves to supplement the risk-based capital ratios.

In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule implementing Basel III in the U.S.  The U.S. Basel III final rule replaces the existing Basel I- and Basel II-based capital regulations in the United States.  As an “advanced approaches” banking organization (refer to the “Financial Condition - Capital” section of Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of advanced approaches), State Street became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule beginning on January 1, 2014.  However, certain aspects of the U.S. Basel III final rule, including the new minimum risk-based and leverage capital ratios, capital buffers, regulatory adjustments and deductions and revisions to the calculation of risk-weighted assets under the so-called “standardized approach,” will commence at a later date or be phased in over several years.

Among other things, the U.S. Basel III final rule introduces a minimum common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, raises the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% to 6%, and, for advanced approaches banking organizations such as State Street, imposes a minimum supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, the numerator of which is tier 1 capital and the denominator of which includes both on-balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures.  In addition to the supplementary leverage ratio, State Street is subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the supplementary leverage ratio primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is quarterly average on-balance sheet assets.

The U.S. Basel III final rule also introduces a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer that add to the minimum risk-based capital ratios.  Specifically, the final rule limits a banking organization’s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if it fails to maintain a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets and, if deployed during periods of excessive credit growth, a common equity tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets, above each of the minimum common equity tier 1, and tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios.  Banking regulators have initially set the countercyclical capital buffer at zero.

To maintain the status of our parent company as a financial holding company, we and our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to be “well-capitalized” by maintaining capital ratios above the minimum requirements.  Effective beginning on January 1, 2015, the “well-capitalized” standard for our banking subsidiaries will be revised to reflect the higher capital requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rule.

In addition to introducing new capital ratios and buffers, the U.S. Basel III final rule revises the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments and provides for the phase-out of existing capital instruments that do not satisfy the new criteria.  For example, existing trust preferred capital securities are being phased out from tier 1 capital over a two-year period beginning on January 1, 2014 and ending on January 1, 2016, and subsequently, the qualification of these securities as tier 2 capital will be phased out over a multi-year transition period beginning on January 1, 2016 and ending on January 1, 2022.  We had trust preferred capital securities of$950 millionoutstanding as ofDecember 31, 2013.









Under the U.S. Basel III final rule, certain new items will be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and certain existing regulatory capital deductions will be modified.  Among other things, the final rule requires significant investments in the common stock of unconsolidated financial institutions, as defined, and certain deferred tax assets that exceed specified individual and aggregate thresholds to be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital.  As an advanced approaches banking organization, after-tax unrealized gains and losses on investment securities classified as available for sale, which are excluded from tier 1 capital under Basel I and Basel II, will be included in State Street’s and State Street Bank's tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-in schedule.

Beginning on January 1, 2015, the U.S. Basel III final rule will replace the existing Basel I-based approach for calculating risk-weighted assets with the U.S. Basel III standardized approach that, among other things, modifies certain existing risk weights and introduces new methods for calculating risk-weighted assets for certain types of assets and exposures.  The final rule also revised the existing Basel II-based advanced approaches capital rules to implement Basel III and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  In December 2013, the Federal Reserve made certain technical revisions to the new market risk capital rule, to which we became subject beginning on January 1, 2013.

We are currently in the qualification, or parallel run, period that must be completed prior to our full implementation of the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.  During this qualification period, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve that our models, systems and processes for calculating capital comply with the qualitative and quantitative requirements in the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.

While we are in the qualification period, we must report our risk-based capital calculations under the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules to the Federal Reserve.  Upon completion of the qualification period and with the approval of the Federal Reserve, we will begin to use the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules to calculate our risk-based capital ratios. However, under the U.S. banking regulators’ implementation of a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, we will be subject to a capital floor which is currently based on Basel I and will, beginning in 2015, be based on the U.S. Basel III standardized approach.  As a result, we will be required to calculate our risk-based capital ratios under both the Basel III advanced approach and either the Basel I or Basel III standardized approach, as applicable, and we will be subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios calculated under the standardized approach and those calculated under the advanced approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework.

On February 21, 2014, we were notified by the Federal Reserve that we have completed our parallel run period and will be required to begin using the advanced approaches framework as provided in the Federal Reserve's July 2013 Basel III final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements.  Pursuant to this notification, we will use the advanced approaches framework to calculate and publicly disclose our risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014.  Under the July 2013 Basel III final rule, we must meet the minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the advanced approaches and generally applicable risk-based capital frameworks in Basel III and Basel I, respectively.

In addition to the U.S. Basel III final rule, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to establish more stringent capital requirements for large bank holding companies, including State Street.  The Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to address this requirement by, among other things, implementing the Basel Committee’s capital surcharge for “global systemically important banks,” or G-SIBs.  The Financial Stability Board, or FSB, has identified 29 institutions worldwide as G-SIBs and assigned each G-SIB a common equity tier 1 capital surcharge ranging from 1.0% to 2.5% of the respective G-SIB's risk-weighted assets.  We have been identified as a G-SIB with a capital surcharge of 1.0%.  This surcharge is subject to change from time to time by the FSB.  The FSB has stated that it intends to update its list of G-SIBs annually.

The Federal Reserve has also indicated that it may introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate their orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure.  Depending on the ultimate regulation, our parent company could be required to issue additional long-term debt to comply with this requirement.  If issued, this additional long-term debt will likely increase our interest expense and reduce our net interest revenue.  We cannot predict the magnitude or the timing of the impact at this time.

The following table presents our tier 1 common ratio as ofDecember 31, 2013, calculated using Basel I standards, and our estimated tier 1 common ratios as ofDecember 31, 2013, calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach.  These estimated Basel III tier 1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as applicable on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.  As indicated above, under the Basel III final rule, the more stringent of the Basel III tier 1 common ratios calculated by









us under the standardized and advanced approaches will apply in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework.

December 31, 2013Currently Applicable Regulatory Requirements(1)Basel III Final Rule Standardized Approach (Estimated)(2)Basel III Final Rule Advanced Approach                                                                               (Estimated)(2)(Dollars in millions)Tier 1 capital$13,895$13,216$13,216Less:Trust preferred capital securities950475475Preferred stock491491491Plus:Other—8787Tier 1 common capital$12,454$12,337$12,337Total risk-weighted assets$80,126$121,562$104,919Tier 1 common ratio15.5%10.1%11.8%Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, assuming full implementation on January 1, 20194.54.5Capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation on January 1, 20192.52.5Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, including capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation on January 1, 2019(3)7.07.0

(1)Using Basel I standards, the tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 risk-based capital, calculated in conformity with Basel I, less non-common elements including qualifying trust preferred capital securities and qualifying perpetual preferred stock, or tier 1 common capital, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with Basel I.

(2)As ofDecember 31, 2013, for purposes of the calculations in conformity with the Basel III final rule, capital and total risk-weighted assets under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach were calculated using our estimates, based on the provisions of the final rule expected to affect capital in 2014.  The tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 common capital, as described in footnote (1), but with tier 1 risk-based capital calculated in conformity with the final rule, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule.  These estimated Basel III tier 1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as applicable on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.

•   Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, tier 1 risk-based capital decreased by$679 million, as a result of applying the estimated effect of the Basel III final rule to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital of$13.90 billionas ofDecember 31, 2013.

•   Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, estimated tier 1 common capital used in the calculation of the tier 1 common ratio was$12.34 billion, reflecting the adjustments to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital described in the first bullet above.  Tier 1 common capital used in the calculation was therefore calculated as adjusted tier 1 risk-based capital of$13.22 billionless non-common elements of capital, composed of trust preferred capital securities of$475 million, preferred stock of$491 million, and other adjustments of$87 millionas ofDecember 31, 2013, resulting in estimated tier 1 common capital of$12.34 billion.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, there was no qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries.

•   Under the standardized approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by$41.44 billionas a result of applying the provisions of the Basel III final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of$80.13 billionas ofDecember 31, 2013. Under the advanced approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by$24.79 billionas a result of applying the provisions of the final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of$80.13 billionas ofDecember 31, 2013.

The primary differences between total risk-weighted assets under Basel I and total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III final rule include the following: under Basel I, credit risk is quantified using pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, and in part, uses external credit ratings, while the Basel III final rule, specifically the standardized and advanced approaches, introduces a broader range of pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, uses certain alternatives to external credit ratings, includes additional adjustments for operational risk (under the advanced approach) and counterparty credit risk, and revises the treatment of equity exposures.  In particular, asset securitization exposures receive higher risk weights under both the standardized and advanced approaches in the Basel III final rule compared to Basel I.

(3)The minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement does not reflect the countercyclical capital buffer under the Basel III final rule, or the capital buffer for large bank holding companies identified as G-SIBs prescribed by the Basel Committee (G-SIBs are described earlier in this “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards” section); such countercyclical capital buffer, which is initially set at zero, would be established by banking regulators under certain economic conditions, and U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the prescribed capital buffer for systemically important financial institutions.

The estimated Basel III tier 1 common ratio as ofDecember 31, 2013presented above, calculated under the advanced approach in conformity with the Basel III final rule, reflects calculations and determinations with respect to our capital and related matters as ofDecember 31, 2013, based on State Street and external data, quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and assumptions, collectively referred to as “advanced systems,” in effect and used by State Street for those purposes as of the time we filed this Form 10-K.  Significant components of these advanced systems involve the exercise of judgment by us and our regulators, and our advanced systems may not accurately represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended.









Due to the influence of changes in these advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, State Street-specific or market activities or experiences or other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our capital ratios calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule will change and may be volatile over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from period to period.

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPR, which proposes to enhance leverage ratio standards for the largest, most systemically significant U.S. banking organizations.  The July 2013 NPR applies to any U.S. bank holding company with at least $700 billion in consolidated total assets or at least $10 trillion in total assets under custody, referred to as a covered bank holding company, and any insured depository institution subsidiary of such bank holding company.  We expect the standards to apply to State Street and State Street Bank based on our total assets under custody.

Under Basel I, the tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly average on-balance sheet assets.  The Basel III final rule provides for a leverage ratio similar to Basel I, as well as a supplementary leverage ratio for advanced approaches banking organizations.  This supplementary leverage ratio adds certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as those related to derivative contracts and unfunded lending commitments, to the denominator of the ratio calculation.

Under the July 2013 NPR, as a covered bank holding company, we would be required to maintain a supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, which is 2% above the similar minimum Basel III supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of 3% referenced earlier in this “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards”

section.  Failure to exceed the 5% supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio would subject us to restrictions on our capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  In addition to this leverage buffer for covered bank holding companies, the July 2013 NPR would require insured depository institution subsidiaries of covered bank holding companies, like State Street Bank, to maintain a 6% supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio to be considered “well capitalized.”  We are one of eight large U.S. banking organizations to which the July 2013 NPR would apply, and the July 2013 NPR would not apply to all banking organizations with which we compete.  If finalized as currently proposed, the new supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio requirements will be effective beginning on January 1, 2018.  TheJuly 2013 NPR is a proposed rule and subject to interpretation, regulatory guidance, industry and other comment and issuance in the form of a final rule.

Separately, in January 2014, the Basel Committee finalized its revisions to the denominator of the Basel III supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio. The revised denominator differs from the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio in the July 2013 NPR and the U.S. Basel III final rule in several important respects that could adversely affect the calculation of our ratio, including the treatment of derivative contracts, securities financing transactions and certain off-balance sheet exposures.  U.S. banking regulators may issue rules to implement these revisions.

Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio

In addition to capital standards, Basel III introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, and the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR.

The LCR requires banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of liquid assets to withstand a short-term liquidity stress period of thirty days.  It is intended to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of internationally active banking organizations, improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk.  In October 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued an NPR to implement the LCR in the U.S.  Among other things, the proposed LCR standard would require covered banking organizations, which includes us and State Street Bank, to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets, or HQLAs, equal to or greater than 100% of the banking organization’s total net cash outflows over a 30-calendar-day standardized supervisory liquidity stress scenario.

The U.S. LCR proposal is more stringent in certain respects than the Basel Committee’s version of the LCR, and includes a generally narrower definition of HQLAs, a different methodology for calculating net cash outflows during the 30-calendar-day stress scenario, and a shorter, two-year phase-in period that ends on December 31, 2016.  The October 2013 NPR is a proposed rule and may be modified before being finalized.  At such time as the Federal Reserve issues a final rule regarding the LCR, the specifications of such rule, such as the eligibility of assets as HQLAs, the calculation of net outflows, including the treatment of operational deposits, and the timing of indeterminate maturities, could have a material effect on our business activities, including the management and









composition of our investment securities portfolio and our ability to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients.

The NSFR requires banking organizations to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to the composition of their assets and off-balance sheet activities.  The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding relative to the amount of required stable funding.  This ratio should be equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis.  The amount of available stable funding refers to the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over a one-year horizon.  The amount of stable funding required of banking organizations is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of their assets and off-balance sheet exposures.  In January 2014, the Basel Committee proposed revisions to the original December 2010 version of the NSFR.  Many of the proposed changes relate to the prescribed available stable funding factors and required stable funding factors used to calculate the NSFR.  The Basel Committee continues to contemplate the introduction of the NSFR, including any final revisions, as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018.  U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued an NPR to implement the NSFR.

In addition to the LCR and NSFR, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it may introduce additional regulatory measures related to short-term wholesale funding in the form of securities financing transactions, such as repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and lending transactions and margin loans.

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business, including those that are described above in this “Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to “Financial Condition - Capital” in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and note15to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR, framework.  Under the Federal Reserve’s capital plan final  rule, we must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve.

The capital plan must include a description of all of our planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution, such as payments of dividends on, or purchases of, our stock, and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could affect our consolidated capital.  The capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under the U.S. Basel III final rule that are phased in over the planning horizon, and above a tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of strength to our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries under supervisory stress scenarios.  The capital plan requirements mandate that we receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution.  In addition, even with a capital plan for which we have received no objection from the Federal Reserve, we must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, we would not meet our regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution.

In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including us and State Street Bank, if, in the Federal Reserve’s opinion, the payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.  All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and purchase our stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary.

We expect that, by March 31, 2014, the Federal Reserve will either provide a notice of non-objection or object to our 2014 capital plan, which we submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2014.

In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement its capital stress-testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act that require us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests.  Under this rule, we are required to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic scenario.  In September 2013, we provided summary results of our 2013 semi-annual State Street-run









stress tests on the “Investor Relations” section of our corporate website.  The rule also subjects us to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve.

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires State Street Bank to conduct an annual stress test.  State Street Bank submitted its 2014 annual State Street Bank-run stress test to the Federal Reserve in January 2014.

The Volcker Rule

The Volcker rule became effective on July 21, 2012, and in December 2013, U.S. regulators issued final regulations to implement the Volcker rule.  The Volcker rule will, over time, prohibit “banking entities,” including us and our subsidiaries, from engaging in certain prohibited “proprietary trading” activities, as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations, subject to specified exemptions.  The Volcker rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or divest of certain investments in, and relationships with, “covered funds,” as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations.

The classification of certain types of investment securities or structures, such as collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, as “covered funds” remains subject to market, and ultimately regulatory, interpretation, based on the specific terms and other characteristics relevant to such investment securities and structures.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we held an aggregate of approximately$5.77 billionof investments in CLOs.  As of the same date, these investments had an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $122 million, composed of gross unrealized gains of $141 million and gross unrealized losses of $19 million.  In the event that we or our banking regulators conclude that such investments in CLOs, or other investments, are “covered funds,” we may be required to divest of such investments.  If other banking entities reach similar conclusions with respect to similar investments held by them, the prices of such investments could decline significantly, and we may be required to divest of such investments at a significant discount compared to the investments' book value.  This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the period in which such a divestment occurs or on our consolidated financial condition.

Banking entities subject to the Volcker rule have until July 21, 2015 to bring all of their activities and investments into conformity with the Volcker rule, subject to possible extensions.  The final Volcker rule regulations also require banking entities to establish extensive programs to ensure compliance with the restrictions of the Volcker rule.

We are reviewing our activities that are affected by the final Volcker rule regulations and are taking steps to bring those activities into conformity with the Volcker rule.  We are also in the process of establishing the necessary compliance programs to comply with the final Volcker rule regulations.  Given the complexity of the new framework, while we anticipate that the final rule will have some impact on our investment management and custody operations, we have not completed a full evaluation of the impact of the final Volcker rule regulations.  The impact of the Volcker rule on us will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

The Dodd-Frank Act established a new regulatory framework to regulate banking organizations designated as “systemically important financial institutions,” or SIFIs, and has subjected them to heightened prudential standards, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements.  Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which includes us, became automatically subject to the systemic-risk regime in July 2010.

The FSOC, established by the Dodd-Frank Act as discussed earlier, can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for SIFIs, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions.  The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury, also established by the Dodd-Frank Act, can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us.

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies such as State Street.  Among other provisions, the proposed rules would require us to implement various liquidity-related risk management and corporate governance measures and limit our aggregate credit exposure to any unaffiliated counterparty (together with that counterparty’s subsidiaries) to 25% of our capital stock and surplus, as defined.  Refer to the risk factor titled“We assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. These financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and









sovereign entities.  This credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial loss”included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  In addition, the proposed rules would create a new early-remediation regime to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level.

The systemic-risk regime also provides that, for institutions deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets.  Upon a grave-threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk.  The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.

Resolution Planning

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve jointly issued a final rule pursuant to which we are required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for our rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure, referred to as a “resolution plan.”  The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which State Street Bank is required to submit annually to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure.  We and State Street Bank submitted our most recent annual resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on October 1, 2013.

Orderly Liquidation Authority

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as State Street, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority.  The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board.  Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed.  If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as our receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve us, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution.

In December 2013, the FDIC released its proposed single-point-of-entry strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC’s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.

Derivatives

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a new regulatory structure on the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record-keeping.  In addition, certain swaps and other derivatives activities are required to be “pushed out” of insured depository institutions and conducted in separately capitalized non-bank affiliates.  Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a “major swap participant” or a “swap dealer.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, the SEC and other U.S. regulators have adopted and are still in the process of adopting regulations to implement Title VII.  Through this rulemaking process, the CFTC has established, among other things, reporting and record-keeping obligations, margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration requirements, and what swaps are required to be









centrally cleared and exchange-traded.  The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities.  The SEC is in the process of proposing and finalizing similar regulations.

State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer.  As a provisionally-registered swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators.  In December 2013, the CFTC granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation.  Under this limited-purpose designation, interest-rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank’s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a number of conditions.  For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap dealer regulations.

Money Market Funds

Subsidiaries

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.

Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities.  State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch.  Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate.  Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum legal capital requirements set by those regulatory authorities.

We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our subsidiaries, on the other.  Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank’s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective in July 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized.  In addition, the Volcker rule generally prohibits similar transactions between the parent company or any of its affiliates and “covered funds” for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor and other “covered funds” organized and offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the final Volcker rule regulations.

Federal law also requires that certain transactions with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies.  Alternatively, in the









absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.  State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services.  Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.

SSgA Funds Management, Inc., or SSgA FM, and State Street Global Advisors Limited, or SSgA Ltd., act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  SSgA FM, incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  SSgA Ltd., incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  SSgA Ltd. is also authorized and regulated by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, and is an investment firm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.  SSgA FM and SSgA Ltd. each offer a variety of asset management solutions, including active, enhanced and passive equity, active and passive fixed-income, cash management, multi-asset class solutions and real estate.  In addition, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities.

Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC’s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. The U.K. broker/dealer business operates through our subsidiary, State Street Global Markets International Limited, which is registered in the U.K. as a regulated securities broker, is authorized and regulated by the FCA and is an investment firm under the Market in Financial Instruments Directive.  It is also a member of the London Stock Exchange.  In accordance with the rules of the FCA, the U.K. broker/dealer publishes information on its risk management objectives and on policies associated with its regulatory capital requirements and resources.  Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders.

Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject to regulation by the CFTC in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses.

These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority.  Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, and is regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office.  For instance, the FCA, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, or PRA, the London Stock Exchange, and the Euronext.Liffe regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan.  We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations.  However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to regulation.

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank.  An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities.  In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries.









We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering, or AML, and financial transparency provisions and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities.  AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.  We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations.  Compliance with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and our level of compliance with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation.

We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute.  Requirements of the statute include, among other things, prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Deposit Insurance

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC.  The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits.

The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF, is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions.  The FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period.  For larger institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base.

The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FDIC to determine whether and to what extentadjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for “custody banks.”  During 2011, the FDIC concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy specified institutional eligibility criteria.  This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks. State Street Bank is a custody bank for this purpose.  The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset.

Prompt Corrective Action

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.  While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as our parent company, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary.  In certain instances, we would  be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for our under-capitalized banking subsidiary.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve guidelines, which were codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company such as our parent company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries.  This requirement means that we are expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement.  In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.

Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository Institution

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party.

Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver.  As a result, such persons would









be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.



ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment.  Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy.  Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve.  Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those shareholders.  We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the European Central Bank, or ECB.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

“Investment Securities” section included in Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note4, “Investment Securities,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).

Note1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.

“Loans and Leases” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note5, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.

“Loans and Leases” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) - discloses information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.

“Credit Risk Management” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note5, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management’s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information.

Note9, “Short-Term Borrowings,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.



