ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

State Street Corporation is a financial holding company; we were organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
and through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary State Street Bank and Trust Company, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide. At December 31, 2010, we had
consolidated total assets of $160.51 billion, consolidated total deposits of $98.35 billion, consolidated total shareholders’ equity of $17.79 billion and 28,670 employees. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).

For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise,
references to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; references to “parent company” mean State Street
Corporation; and references to “State Street Bank” mean State Street Bank and Trust Company. The parent company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, assisting those subsidiaries by providing financial resources
and management.

Our website is www.statestreet.com, through which we make available, free of charge, all reports we
electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon
as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC
in this report as inactive textual references only. Except as may be specifically incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the Examining & Audit Committee, the
Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, and a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard
of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on our website.

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

Overview

We are a leader
in providing financial services and products to meet the needs of institutional investors worldwide, with $21.53 trillion of assets under custody and administration and $2.01 trillion of assets under management at year-end 2010. Our clients include
mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. Including the United States, we operate in 26 countries and more than
100 geographic markets worldwide. We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank’s current charter was authorized by a special Act of the
Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.

Significant Developments

On April 1, 2010, we acquired Mourant International Finance Administration, or MIFA. Through this acquisition, we strengthened our
position in fund administration and alternative asset servicing by adding $122 billion to our assets under administration as of June 30, 2010. We further expanded our reach in Europe and Asia, and we broadened our capabilities for servicing
investors’ growing real estate administration requirements. This transaction builds on prior acquisitions completed over the past several years, each of which has contributed to our capabilities and reach in the alternative asset servicing
segment of the global fund administration business. In 2002, we acquired International Fund Services, and in 2007, we acquired Investors Financial Services Corp. and Palmeri Fund Administrators. Additional information about our acquisition of MIFA
is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8.







On May 17, 2010, we completed our acquisition of the securities services business of
Intesa Sanpaolo, or Intesa, composed of global custody, depository banking, correspondent banking and fund administration, with approximately €369 billion of assets under custody and administration as of March 31, 2010. As part of our
acquisition of Intesa, we also assumed approximately €9 billion of client deposits. This transaction also added approximately 530 employees to our operations in Milan, Turin and Luxembourg, enhanced our position as the largest service provider
in Italy and strengthened our presence in Luxembourg. As part of this acquisition, we entered into a long-term servicing agreement with Intesa Sanpaolo to service its investment management affiliates, including Eurizon Capital, which with its
affiliates comprises the largest fund family in Italy, with approximately €139 billion of assets under management as of March 31, 2010. Additional information about our acquisition of Intesa is provided in note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements included under Item 8.

On November 30, 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance
service excellence and innovation, increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. This program includes operational and information technology enhancements and targeted cost initiatives, including a reduction in force and a plan to
reduce our occupancy costs. Additional information concerning actions taken by us in connection with, and charges resulting from, this program in 2010 is included in the “Overview of Financial Results—Financial Highlights” and
“Consolidated Results of Operations—Expenses” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or Management’s Discussion and Analysis, included under Item 7 and in note
9 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8.

On January 10, 2011, we completed our acquisition of
Bank of Ireland Asset Management, or BIAM. Our acquisition of BIAM provided State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA, with new Dublin-based clients and employees and additional assets under management, including global fundamental equities,
fixed-income, cash, asset allocation, property and balanced funds. Aggregate BIAM assets under management as of December 31, 2010 were approximately €26 billion. The acquisition also expanded SSgA’s range of investment management
solutions, and expanded State Street’s overall presence in Ireland, where we have been servicing institutional clients for fifteen years. Our resulting new operation in that country, known as State Street Global Advisors Ireland Limited, became
SSgA’s tenth global investment center, from which investment teams manage client assets.

Additional Information

Additional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow. For information about our management of
capital, liquidity, market risk, including interest-rate risk, and other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Risk Factors included under Item 1A and our consolidated financial statements and
accompanying footnotes included under Item 8, including notes 22 and 25 with respect to income taxes and non-U.S. activities.

LINES
OF BUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. These two lines of business
provide services to support institutional investors, including custody, recordkeeping, daily pricing and administration, shareholder services, foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services, securities finance, deposit and short-term
investment facilities, loan and lease financing, investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing, performance, risk and compliance analytics, investment research and investment management, including passive and active
U.S. and non-U.S. equity and fixed-income strategies. For additional information about our lines of business, see the “Line of Business Information” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note 24 to the consolidated
financial statements included under Item 8.

COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business worldwide. We face competition from other financial services institutions, deposit-taking institutions, investment management
firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banking firms, benefits consultants, leasing companies, and business service and software companies. As we expand globally, we encounter additional sources of competition.







We believe that these markets have key competitive considerations. These considerations
include, for investment servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, and price; and for investment management, expertise, experience, the availability of related service
offerings, quality of service and performance, and price.

Our competitive success will depend upon our ability to develop and
market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing clients and to attract new clients.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The parent company is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank
Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. These limits
also apply to non-banking entities of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary if the
Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding
Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it may acquire substantially all the assets of any bank or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.

The parent company qualifies as a financial holding company, which extends to some extent the scope of activities in which it may engage.
A financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve interpretations, and therefore the parent
company may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, eitherde novoor by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or
investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; merchant banking, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our
status as a financial holding company, each of our depository subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as judged by regulators, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may
ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, which became law in July 2010, will have a significant effect on the regulatory structure of the financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic
risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions, creates a new framework for the regulation of derivative instruments, alters the regulatory capital treatment of
trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities, and revises the FDIC’s assessment base for deposit insurance assessment. In addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including,
but not limited to, the implementation of Basel III and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, and the potential adoption of European Union derivatives initiatives and revisions to the European collective investment fund, or UCITS,
directive.

Additional information about the Dodd-Frank Act and other new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our
business is provided in Risk Factors included under Item 1A, in particular the risk factor titled “We face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel II and Basel III,
which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance.”

Many aspects of our business are subject to
regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S.







governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.

Regulatory Capital Adequacy

Like other bank holding companies, we are subject to Federal Reserve minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio
guidelines. As noted above, our status as a financial holding company also requires that we maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels. State Street Bank is subject to similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. As of
December 31, 2010, our regulatory capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory capital levels of State Street Bank, exceeded the applicable minimum capital requirements and the requirements to qualify as a financial holding
company.

We are currently in the qualification period that is required to be completed prior to our full implementation of the
Basel II final rules. During the qualification period, we must demonstrate that we comply with the Basel II requirements to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve. During or subsequent to this qualification period, the Federal Reserve may determine
that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the final rules and may require us to take certain actions to achieve compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our capital structure, our regulatory capital ratios or our
financial performance. Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory rules to be adopted for the implementation of Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to result in an increase in the minimum regulatory capital that we will be required
to maintain and changes in the manner in which our regulatory capital ratios are calculated. Banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance with respect to the regulatory capital rules under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act.

Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the
termination of deposit insurance of State Street Bank by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business that are described further in this “Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and regulatory capital adequacy, refer to the “Capital” section
of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Risk Factors, including the risk factor titled “Our business may be adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under Basel II Capital Rules, Basel III and the
Dodd-Frank Act or in the event our capital structure is determined to be insufficient as a result of mandated stress testing,” and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8.

Subsidiaries

The
Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, for both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.

Our bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the
Federal Reserve System and the FDIC and is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory
authorities of those states and countries in which a branch of State Street Bank is located. Other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, other offices of the Federal
Reserve System or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are located. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they are located.
As of December 31, 2010, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum legal capital requirements as set by those regulatory authorities.

The parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on transactions involving loans, extensions of credit,
investments or asset purchases from State Street Bank to the parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries. Transactions of this kind to affiliates by State Street Bank are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank’s







capital and surplus, as defined, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and, in addition, are subject to collateral requirements. Federal law also provides that certain transactions with
affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated
companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. State Street Bank is also prohibited from
engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. The Federal Reserve has jurisdiction to regulate the terms of certain debt issues of bank holding companies.
Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S.
governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, the Financial Services Authority, the London Stock Exchange, and
the Euronext.Liffe regulate our activities in the United Kingdom; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities
Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan. We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with these requirements.
However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs in our worldwide compliance efforts.

The
majority of our non-U.S. operations are conducted pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act corporation subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a
corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations), and the
investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In
addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through the parent company or through non-banking subsidiaries of the parent company) pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation Y, or
through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the 20% investment limitation for Edge Act corporation subsidiaries.

We are subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies,
including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.







We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute. The statute requires
prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve guidelines, a bank
holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under these guidelines, the parent company is expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in
circumstances in which it might not do so absent such guidelines. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by the parent company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal
Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may impact overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve
requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of
the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions. We are also impacted by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the European Central Bank.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following
information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table
(Item 6)—presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8)—presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts,
related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

Note 3, “Investment Securities,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) and “Investment
Securities” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis—disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).

Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item
8)—discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.

Note 4, “Loans and Leases,” to the
consolidated financial statements (Item 8) and “Loans and Leases” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis—disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.

“Loans and Leases” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis—disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.

“Credit Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note 4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated
financial statements (Item 8)—present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management’s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged
or credited to results of operations.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity;
Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8)—discloses deposit information.







Note 8, “Short-Term Borrowings,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item
8)—discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.



