ITEM 1.BUSINESS

State Street
Corporation is a financial holding company, organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Through its subsidiaries, including its principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, State Street Corporation
provides a broad range of products and services for institutional investors worldwide. All references in this Form 10-K to the parent company are to State Street Corporation. Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires otherwise,
all references in this Form 10-K to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. State Street Bank and Trust Company is
referred to as State Street Bank. The parent company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, assisting those subsidiaries by providing financial resources and management. At December 31, 2009, we had consolidated total
assets of $157.95 billion, consolidated total deposits of $90.06 billion, consolidated total shareholders’ equity of $14.49 billion and employed 27,310. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).

We make available, without charge, on or through our Internet
website atwww.statestreet.com, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on
Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.
We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. Except as may be specifically incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, information on those websites is not part of
this Form 10-K.

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the
Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, and a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a Standard of
Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on our website.

GENERAL

With $18.79 trillion of assets under custody and administration and $1.91 trillion of assets under management at year-end
2009, we are a leading specialist in meeting the needs of institutional investors worldwide. Our customers include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies,
foundations, endowments and investment managers. Including the United States, we operate in 25 countries and more than 100 geographic markets worldwide. We conduct our business primarily through our principal banking subsidiary, State
Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank’s current charter was authorized by a special act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.

For a discussion of our business activities, refer to the “Lines of Business” section that follows. For information
about our management of capital, liquidity, market risk, including interest-rate risk, and other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included under
Item 7, and Risk Factors included under Item 1A. Financial information with respect to income taxes and non-U.S. activities is included in notes 21 and 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

LINES OF BUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. These two lines of business provide services to support institutional investors, including custody, recordkeeping, daily pricing and administration, shareholder
services, foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services, securities finance,







deposit and short-term investment facilities, loan and lease financing, investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing, performance, risk and compliance analytics,
investment research and investment management, including passive and active U.S. and non-U.S. equity and fixed-income strategies. For additional information about our lines of business, see the “Line of Business Information” section of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of
our business worldwide. We face competition from other financial services institutions, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banking firms, benefits consultants,
leasing companies, and business service and software companies. As we expand globally, we encounter additional sources of competition.

We believe that there are certain key competitive considerations in these markets. These considerations include, for investment servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and
marketing, and price; and for investment management, expertise, experience, the availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price.

Our competitive success will depend upon our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at
competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing customers and to attract new customers.

SUPERVISION AND
REGULATION

The parent company is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which we refer to
as the Federal Reserve, as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage, to those that
the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. These limits also apply to non-banking entities of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a
bank holding company to terminate any activity or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of
a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it may acquire substantially all
the assets of any bank or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.

The parent company operates
as a financial holding company, which reduces to some extent the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on our activities. A financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial
in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve interpretations, and therefore the parent company may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Financial
holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, eitherde novoor by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities.
Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; merchant banking, subject to significant limitations;
and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, each of our depository subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as judged by
regulators, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us.

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and
self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Aspects of our public disclosure,







corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.

Capital Adequacy

Like
other bank holding companies, we are subject to Federal Reserve minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. As noted above, our status as a financial holding company also requires that we maintain specified capital ratio levels. State
Street Bank is subject to similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, our capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the capital levels of State Street Bank, exceeded the applicable minimum capital
requirements and the requirements to qualify as a financial holding company. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of deposit insurance of State Street Bank by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and to certain restrictions on our business that are described further in this “Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our capital position and capital adequacy, refer to the “Capital” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and
note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

Subsidiaries

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank,
for both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.

Our bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various
regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC and is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts
Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which a branch of State Street Bank is located. Other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, other offices of the Federal Reserve System or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are located. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the
regulatory authorities of the countries in which they are located. As of December 31, 2009, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum legal capital requirements as set by those authorities.

Our investment management division, State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA, which acts as an investment advisor to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, is registered as
an investment advisor with the SEC. However, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities. Our U.S.
broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to







regulation by the SEC (including the SEC’s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. Many aspects of our investment
management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from carrying on our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business relating to
investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to ERISA and is regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S.
governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, the Financial Services Authority, the London Stock Exchange, and
the Euronext.liffe regulate our activities in the United Kingdom; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities
Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan. We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with these requirements.
However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs in our worldwide compliance efforts.

Most of
our non-U.S. operations are conducted pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act corporation subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation
organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not invest more than 20% of their capital and surplus in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations), and the investment of any amount
in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In addition to our non-U.S.
operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we make new investments abroad directly (through the parent company or through non-banking subsidiaries of the parent company) pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation Y, or through
international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the 20% investment limitation for Edge Act corporation subsidiaries.

We are subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying
client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.

We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute. The statute requires prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank
Incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve guidelines, a bank holding company is required to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under these guidelines, the parent company is expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which it might not do so
absent such guidelines. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by the parent company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority
payment.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may
impact overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and







changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of
depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions. We are also impacted by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the European Central Bank.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table (Item 6)—presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table
(Item 8)—presents average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and expense for each major category
of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

Note 3, “Investment Securities,” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) and “Investment Securities” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7)—disclose information regarding
book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).

Note 1, “Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies—Loans and Lease Financing” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8)—discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.

Note 4, “Loans and Lease Financing,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) and “Loans and Lease
Financing” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7)—disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest
rates.

“Loans and Lease Financing” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7)—disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.

“Credit Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7)
and note 4, “Loans and Lease Financing,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8)—present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management’s
judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8)—discloses deposit information.

Note 8, “Short-Term Borrowings,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8)—discloses information
regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.



