ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

State Street Corporation is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Through our
subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, or State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide. At December 31, 2011, we had
consolidated total assets of $216.83 billion, consolidated total deposits of $157.29 billion, consolidated total shareholders’ equity of $19.40 billion and 29,740 employees. Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).

For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise,
references to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; references to “parent company” mean State Street
Corporation; and references to “State Street Bank” mean State Street Bank and Trust Company. The parent company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, assisting those subsidiaries by providing financial resources
and management.

We make available through our website atwww.statestreet.com, free of charge, all reports we
electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon
as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC
in this report as inactive textual references only. Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

We have
Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the Examining & Audit Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
of our Board of Directors, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on our website.

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

Overview

We are a leader in providing financial services and products to meet the needs of institutional investors worldwide, with
$21.81 trillion of assets under custody and administration and $1.86 trillion of assets under management as of December 31, 2011. Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public
retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. We operate in 29 countries and in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide. We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its
beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank’s current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.

Significant Developments

In 2011, we purchased approximately 16.3 million shares of our common stock, at an aggregate cost of $675 million, under the program
approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced in March 2011. In addition, we declared an aggregate of $0.72 per share, or approximately $358 million, of dividends on our common stock in 2011; this amount represented the first increase in
our common stock dividend since early 2009. Additional information with respect to our common stock purchase and dividend actions is provided under “Financial Condition—Capital” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis included
under Item 7.

During the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed our acquisitions of Complementa Investment—Controlling AG,
an investment performance measurement and analytics firm based in Switzerland, and Pulse Trading, Inc., a







full-service agency brokerage firm based in Boston, Massachusetts. We acquired Complementa, a provider of investment performance measurement analytics to institutional and large private
investors, to augment the expansion of our investment analytics capabilities and our overall presence in key markets in Europe. We acquired Pulse Trading, which provides a range of electronic trading capabilities, to enhance the electronic trading
technology we provide to our institutional clients. Additional information about these acquisitions is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8.

In November 2010, we announced a business operations and information technology transformation program. This multi-year program
incorporates operational, information technology and targeted cost initiatives, including reductions in force and a plan to reduce our occupancy costs. In connection with our implementation of this program, we recorded aggregate restructuring
charges of approximately $133 million in 2011, following $156 million of such charges in 2010. The 2011 charges consisted mainly of costs related to employee severance and information technology. In connection with our implementation of this
program, we achieved approximately $86 million of annual pre-tax, run-rate expense savings in 2011 compared to 2010 run-rate expenses. These annual pre-tax, run-rate savings relate only to the business operations and information technology
transformation program. Our actual operating expenses may increase or decrease as a result of other factors.

Additional
information with respect to the program is provided under “Consolidated Results of Operations—Expenses” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7.

Additional Information

Additional information about our business
activities is provided in the sections that follow. For information about our management of capital, liquidity, market risk, including interest-rate risk, and other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to Risk Factors included under Item 1A,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8.

LINES OF BUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and
Investment Management.

Investment Servicing provides products and services including custody, product- and participant-level
accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loan and lease financing;
investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics.

We are the largest provider of mutual fund custody and accounting services in the U.S. We distinguish ourselves from other mutual fund
service providers by offering clients a broad array of integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration. At December 31, 2011, we calculated approximately 40.6% of the U.S. mutual fund prices provided to
NASDAQ that appeared daily inThe Wall Street Journaland other publications with an accuracy rate of 99.87%. We serviced U.S. tax-exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds, and we provided trust and valuation services for more
than 5,500 daily-priced portfolios at December 31, 2011.

We are a service provider outside of the U.S. as well. In Germany,
Italy and France, we provide depotbank services for retail and institutional fund assets, as well as custody and other services to pension plans and other institutional clients. In the U.K., we provide custody services for pension fund assets and
administration services for mutual fund assets. At December 31, 2011, we serviced approximately $711 billion of offshore assets, primarily domiciled in Ireland, Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands. At December 31, 2011, we had $1.04 trillion in
assets under administration in the Asia/Pacific region, and in Japan, we held approximately 93% of the trust assets held by non-domestic trust banks in that region.

We are an alternative asset servicing provider worldwide, servicing hedge, private equity and real estate funds. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $816 billion of alternative assets under
administration.







Our Investment Management services are provided through State Street
Global Advisors, or SSgA. SSgA provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and other related services, such as securities finance. SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as
enhanced indexing and hedge fund strategies, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income securities. SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the SPDR®ETF brand.

SSgA provides this array of investment management strategies, specialized investment management advisory services and other financial services for corporations, public funds, and other sophisticated
investors. Based on assets under management at December 31, 2011, SSgA was the largest manager of institutional assets worldwide, the largest manager of assets for tax-exempt organizations (primarily pension plans) in the U.S., and the third largest
investment manager overall in the world.

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under “Line of
Business Information” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 and in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8.

COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of
our business worldwide. We face competition from other custodial banks, financial services institutions, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banking firms, benefits
consultants, leasing companies, and business service and software companies. As we expand globally, we encounter additional sources of competition.

We believe that these markets have key competitive considerations. These considerations include, for investment servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and
scope of sales and marketing, required levels of capital and price; and for investment management, expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price.

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies,
to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing clients and to attract new clients.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The parent company is registered with the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our
non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking, or to managing or controlling banks. These limits also apply to non-banking entities of which we own or control more than 5% of a class
of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk
to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal
Reserve before it may acquire substantially all the assets of any bank or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.

The parent company qualifies as a financial holding company, which increases to some extent the scope of activities in which it may engage. A financial holding company and the companies under its control
are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve interpretations, and therefore the parent company may engage in a broader range of activities than
permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, eitherde novoor by acquisition, provided the financial holding company
gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be







financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; merchant banking, subject
to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, each of our depository subsidiaries must be well capitalized and
well managed, as judged by regulators, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, will have a significant
effect on the regulatory structure of the financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and
private fund investment activities by banking institutions, creates a new framework for the regulation of derivative instruments, alters the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities, and revises the
FDIC’s assessment base for deposit insurance assessment. In addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of Basel III and the
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, and the potential adoption of European Union derivatives initiatives and revisions to the European collective investment fund, or UCITS, directive.

Additional information about the Dodd-Frank Act and other new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business is provided in
Risk Factors included under Item 1A, in particular the risk factor titled “We face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel II and Basel III, which may increase
our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance.”

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by
other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public
disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.

Regulatory Capital Adequacy

Like other bank holding companies, we are subject to Federal Reserve minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. As noted above, our status as a financial holding company also requires that
we maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels. State Street Bank is subject to similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. As of December 31, 2011, our regulatory capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory
capital levels of State Street Bank, exceeded the applicable minimum capital requirements and the requirements to qualify as a financial holding company.

We are currently in the qualification period that is required to be completed prior to our full implementation of the Basel II final rules. During the qualification period, we must demonstrate that we
comply with the Basel II requirements to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve. During or subsequent to this qualification period, the Federal Reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the final rules and may
require us to take certain actions to achieve compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our capital structure, our regulatory capital ratios or our financial performance.

Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory rules to be adopted for the implementation of Basel III and the Dodd- Frank Act are
expected to result in an increase in the minimum regulatory capital that we will be required to maintain and changes in the manner in which our regulatory capital ratios are calculated. In addition, we are currently designated as a large bank
holding company subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards, commonly referred to as a “systemically important financial institution,” or SIFI, and we are one among an initial group of 29 institutions worldwide that have been
identified by the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision as “global systemically important banks,” or G-SIBs. Both of these designations will require us to hold incrementally higher regulatory capital
compared to financial institutions without such designations.







Banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance with respect to the
regulatory capital rules under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act.

Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements could subject
us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of deposit insurance of State Street Bank by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business that are described further in this
“Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and
regulatory capital adequacy, refer to Risk Factors included under Item 1A, “Financial Condition—Capital” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included
under Item 8.

Subsidiaries

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, for both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.

Our bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the
Federal Reserve System and the FDIC and is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory
authorities of those states and countries in which a branch of State Street Bank is located. Other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, other offices of the Federal
Reserve System or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are located. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they are located.
As of December 31, 2011, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum legal capital requirements set by those regulatory authorities.

The parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on transactions involving loans, extensions of credit,
investments or asset purchases from State Street Bank to the parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries. Transactions of this kind to affiliates by State Street Bank are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank’s
capital and surplus, as defined, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and, in addition, are subject to collateral requirements.

Federal law also provides that certain transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the
institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies. Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit
standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property
or furnishing of services. Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.

SSgA, which acts as an investment advisor to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, is registered as an
investment advisor with the SEC. However, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities. Our U.S.
broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC’s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization.
Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject
to regulation by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses. These laws and regulations generally grant
supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the







power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business
related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to ERISA and is regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S.
governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, the Financial Services Authority, the London Stock Exchange, and
the Euronext.Liffe regulate our activities in the United Kingdom; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and the Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities
Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan. We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these
organizations. However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs in our worldwide compliance efforts.

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of
State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus in their Edge Act corporations
(and similar state law corporations), and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through the parent company or through non-banking subsidiaries of the parent
company) pursuant to Federal Reserve Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the 20% investment limitation for Edge Act subsidiaries.

We are subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires
implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws
outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.

We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute. The
statute requires prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve guidelines, a bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under these guidelines, the parent company is
expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which it otherwise might not do so absent such guidelines. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by the parent company to a federal bank
regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S.
government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may impact overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by
the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government
regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions. We are also affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies,
such as the European Central Bank.







STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table (Item 6)—presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common
dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity;
Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8)—presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully
taxable-equivalent interest revenue and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

“Investment Securities” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note 3, “Investment Securities,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item
8)—disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).

Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8)—discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on
non-accrual status.

Note 4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) and “Loans
and Leases” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis—disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.

“Loans and Leases” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis—disclose
information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.

“Credit Risk” section
of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and note 4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8)—present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced
management’s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8)—discloses deposit information.

Note 8, “Short-Term Borrowings,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8)—discloses information regarding
short-term borrowings of State Street.



