ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL

State Street Corporation, referred to as the Parent Company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).   For purposes of this Form 10-K,unless the context requires otherwise, references to “State Street,” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The Parent Company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries.  Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with$33.12 trillionof AUCA and$2.78 trillionof AUM as ofDecember 31, 2017.

As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had consolidated total assets of$238.43 billion, consolidated total deposits of$184.90 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of$22.32 billionand36,643employees.  We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including in the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

On the “Investor Relations” section of our corporate website atwww.statestreet.com, we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These documents are also accessible on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.  We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only.Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees.  Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance."



We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of semi-annual State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under theDodd-Frank Actand resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  These additional disclosures are available on the “Investor Relations” section of our website under "Filings and Reports."

We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary included under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.



BUSINESSDESCRIPTION

Overview

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792.  State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.  State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients.

Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers.

Additional Information

Additional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow.  For information about our management of credit and counterparty risk; liquidity risk; operational risk; market risk associated with our trading activities; market risk associated with our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities, primarily composed of interest-rate risk; and capital, as well as other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to "Risk Factors" included under Item 1A, the “Financial Condition” section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or Management's Discussion and Analysis, and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.



State Street Corporation |3








LINES OFBUSINESS

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management.

Investment Servicing

Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services.  Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe.  As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments.

Our investment servicing products and services include:custody; product and participant level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; our enhanced custody product, which integrates principal securities lending and custody; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors.

We provide some or all of these integrated products and services to clients in the U.S. and in many other markets, including, among others, Australia, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg and the U.K.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we serviced AUCA of approximately$24.42 trillionin the Americas, approximately$7.03 trillionin Europe and the Middle East and approximately$1.67 trillionin the Asia-Pacific region.

Investment Management

Our Investment Management line of business,through SSGA, provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other sophisticated investors.  SSGA offers passive and active asset management strategies across equity, fixed-income, alternative, multi-asset solutions (including OCIO) and cash asset classes.  Products are distributed directly and through intermediaries using a variety of investment vehicles, including ETFs, such as the SPDR®ETF brand.As ofDecember 31, 2017, SSGA had AUM of approximately$2.78 trillion.



Additional information about our lines of business is provided under “Line of Business Information” included under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in Note24to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.  Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is provided in Note25to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION

We operate in a highly competitive environment and face global competition in all areas of our business.  Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, investment analytic businesses, business service and software companies and information services firms.  As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world.

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business.  For Investment Servicing, quality of service, technological expertise, economies of scale, quality and scope of services, sales and marketing, required levels of capital and price drive competition, and are critical to our servicing business.  For Investment Management, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance and price.

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue to expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients.

We are a systemically important financial institution and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision with respect to our operations and activities.  Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same limitations, requirements and standards with respect to their operations and activities.  See "Supervision and Regulation" in this Item for more information.



State Street Corporation |4








SUPERVISIONAND REGULATION

State Street is registered with theFederal Reserveas a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.  The Bank Holding Company Act generally limits the activities in which bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries may engage to managing or controlling banks and to a range of activities that are considered to be closely related to banking.  Bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as the Parent Company, may engage in a broader range of activities considered to be "financial in nature."  These limits also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to “control” for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares.  The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes.  The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.

The Parent Company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company and, as such, may engage in a broader range of non-banking activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies.  Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities that are defined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature, either de novo or by acquisition, provided that the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities.  Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking.  In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations.  Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature.  Currently,



under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses.

In response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes, both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which our business is subject have increased in recent years.  Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector.  Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place.  The U.S. President has issued an executive order that sets forth principles for the reform of the federal financial regulatory framework, and the Republican majority in Congress has also suggested an agenda for financial regulatory reform.  The implementation of any such reforms, or if implemented whether they would be beneficial to State Street, is uncertain.  Irrespective of any regulatory change, we expect that our business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision.

In addition, increased regulatory requirements have been and are being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III final rule (refer to “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards” below in this “Supervision and Regulation” section and under "Capital" in “Financial Condition” included under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, of this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III), the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD), the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) directives, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFIDII) and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR) (the majority of the provisions of MiFID II and MiFIR will apply from January 3, 2018) and the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations.  Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject toSOX, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and theNYSE.



State Street Corporation |5






Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards

Basel III Final Rule

We are subject to the Basel III framework in the U.S.  Provisions of the Basel III final rule become effective under a transition timetable which began in January 2014, with full implementation required beginning on January 1, 2019.  U.S. banking regulators have also jointly issued a final market risk capital rule to implement the changes to the market risk capital framework in the U.S.  The final market risk capital rule became effective and was applicable to State Street in January 2013, and replaced the market risk capital framework associated with Basel I and Basel II.

The Basel III final rule provides for two frameworks: the “standardized” approach, intended to replace Basel I, and the “advanced” approaches, applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like State Street, as originally defined under Basel II.  The standardized approach modifies the provisions of Basel I related to the calculation of RWA and prescribes standardized risk weights for certain on- and off-balance sheet exposures.

Among other things, the Basel III final rule does the following:

•Adds requirements for a minimum common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3% for advanced approaches banking organizations;

•Raises the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% under Basel I and Basel II to 6%;

•Leaves the existing, minimum total capital ratio at 8%;

•Implements the capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers, referenced below, as well as a G-SIB surchargeincluded under "Capital" in "Financial Condition" included under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, of this Form 10-K;

•Implements the previously described standardized approach to replace the calculation of RWA under Basel I; and

•Implements the advanced approaches for the calculation of RWA.

Additionally, beginning January 1, 2018, the SLR rule introduced a higher minimum SLR requirement for the eight U.S. G-SIBs of at least 6% for the insured banking entity (State Street Bank) in order to be well capitalized under the U.S. banking regulators’ PCA framework, as well as a requirement of a minimum SLR of 5% for the holding company (the Parent Company) in order to avoid any limitations on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  In



addition to the SLR, State Street is subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets and does not include any off-balance sheet exposures.  The Parent Company is required to include SLR disclosures, calculated on a transitional basis, with its other Basel disclosures.

Under the Basel III final rule, a banking organization would be able to make capital distributions (subject to other regulatory constraints, such as regulator review of its capital plans) and discretionary bonus payments without specified limitations, as long as it maintains the required capital conservation buffer of 2.5% plus applicable G-SIB surcharge over the minimum required common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and each of the minimum required tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios (plus any potentially applicable countercyclical capital buffer).  Banking regulators would establish the minimum countercyclical capital buffer, which is initially set by banking regulators at zero, up to a maximum of 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets under certain economic conditions.

Under the Basel III final rule, our total regulatory capital is divided into three tiers, composed of common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital (which includes common equity tier 1 capital), and tier 2 capital.  The total of tier 1 and tier 2 capital, adjusted as applicable, is referred to as total regulatory capital.

Common equity tier 1 capital is composed of core capital elements, such as qualifying common shareholders' equity and related surplus; retained earnings; the cumulative effect of foreign currency translation; and net unrealized gains (losses) on debt and equity securities classified as AFS; reduced by treasury stock.  Subject to certain phase-in or phase-out provisions, tier 1 capital is composed of common equity tier 1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital composed of qualifying perpetual preferred stock and minority interests.  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities, are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and tier 1 capital.  Subject to certain phase-in or phase-out provisions, tier 2 capital is composed primarily of qualifying subordinated long-term debt.

Certain other items, if applicable, must be deducted from tier 1 and tier 2 capital.  These items primarily include deductible investments in unconsolidated banking, financial and insurance entities where we hold more than 50% of the entities' capital; and the amount of expected credit losses that exceeds recorded allowances for loan and other credit losses.  Expected credit losses are calculated for wholesale credit exposures by formula in conformity with the Basel III final rule.



State Street Corporation |6






As required by the Dodd-Frank Act,we and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to a permanent "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of our regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer describedabove in this "Supervision and Regulation" section).Since 2015, our risk-based capital ratios for regulatory assessment purposes are the lower of each ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches.

Global Systemically Important Bank

In addition to the Basel III final rule, we are subject to the Federal Reserve's final rule imposing a capital surcharge on U.S. G-SIBs.  The surcharge requirements within the final rule began to phase-in on January 2016 and will be fully effective on January 1, 2019.  The eight U.S. banks deemed to be G-SIBs, including State Street, are required to calculate the G-SIB surcharge according to two methods, and be bound by the higher of the two:

•Method 1: Assesses systemic importance based upon five equally-weighted components: size, interconnectedness, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity and substitutability;

•Method 2:  Alters the calculation from Method 1 by factoring in a wholesale funding score in place of substitutability and applying a 2x multiplier to the sum of the five components

Method 2 is identified as the binding methodology for State Street and the applicable surcharge on January 1, 2017 was calculated to be 1.5%.  Assuming completion of the phase-in period for the capital conservation buffer, and a countercyclical buffer of 0%, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2019, including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and G-SIB surcharge of 1.5% in 2019, would be 8.5% for common equity tier 1 capital, 10.0% for tier 1 risk-based capital and 12.0% for total risk-based capital, in order for State Street to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments without limitation.  Further, State Street, like all other U.S. G-SIBs, is also subject to a 2% leverage buffer under the Basel III final rule.  If State Street fails to exceed the 2% leverage buffer, it will be subject to increased restrictions (depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments.  Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systemically important nor are all of them subject to the same degree of regulation as a bank or financial holding company, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same additional capital requirements.



Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)

In December 2016, the Federal Reserve released its final rule on TLAC, LTD and clean holding company requirements for U.S. domiciled G-SIBs, such as State Street, that are intended to improve the resiliency and resolvability of certain U.S. banking organizations through enhanced prudential standards. The TLAC final rule imposes: (1) TLAC requirements (i.e., combined eligible tier 1 regulatory capital and eligible LTD); (2) separate eligible LTD requirements; and (3) clean holding company requirements designed to make short-term unsecured debt (including deposits) and most other ineligible liabilities structurally senior to eligible LTD.

Among other things, the TLAC final rule requires State Street to comply with minimum requirements for external TLAC and external LTD, plus an external TLAC buffer.  Specifically, State Street must hold (1) combined eligible tier 1 regulatory capital and eligible LTD in the amount equal to at least 21.5% of total risk-weighted assets (using an estimated G-SIB method 1 surcharge of 1%) and 9.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR final rule, and (2) qualifying external LTD equal to the greater of 7.5% of risk-weighted assets (using an estimated G-SIB method 2 surcharge of 1.5%) and 4.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR final rule.

Based upon current estimates, assumptions and guidance, we project that compliance with TLAC and LTD will result in increasing our outstanding LTD by approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2018 compared to debt outstanding at December 31, 2017.  Our estimates regarding TLAC and LTD are subject to additional regulatory guidance and interpretation. State Street must comply with the TLAC final rule starting on January 1, 2019.

Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio

In addition to capital standards, the Basel III final rule introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the LCR and the NSFR.

We are subject to the final rule issued by the U.S. banking regulators implementing the BCBS' LCR in the U.S.  The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking organizations, like State Street, to improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from market stress over a 30 calendar day period and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk.

The LCR measures an institution’s HQLA against its net cash outflows.  We report LCR to the Federal Reserve daily.  As of December 31, 2017, our LCR was in excess of the requirement of 100%.  In addition, we publicly disclose certain qualitative and quantitative information about our LCR consistent



State Street Corporation |7






with the requirements of the Federal Reserve's December 2016 final rule.

Compliance with the LCR has required that we maintain an investment portfolio that contains an adequate amount of HQLA.  In general, HQLA investments generate a lower investment return than other types of investments, resulting in a negative impact on our NII and our NIM.  In addition, the level of HQLA we are required to maintain under the LCR is dependent upon our client relationships and the nature of services we provide, which may change over time.  Deposits resulting from certain services provided (“operational deposits”) are treated as more resilient during periods of stress than other deposits. As a result, if balances of operational deposits increased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require less HQLA in order to maintain our LCR. Conversely, if balances of operational deposits decreased relative to our total client deposit base, we would expect to require more HQLA.

The BCBS has also issued final guidance with respect to the NSFR.  In the second quarter of 2016, the OCC, Federal Reserve and FDIC issued a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. that is largely consistent with the BCBS guidance. The proposal would require banking organizations to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to its equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than the amount of its required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to its assets, derivatives exposures, and certain other off-balance sheet exposures based on their liquidity characteristics.

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business, including those that are described above in this “Supervision and Regulation” section.

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to "Capital" in “Financial Condition" included under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Note16to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annualCCARframework.  CCAR is used by the



Federal Reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums.  Under the Federal Reserve’s capital plan final rule, we must conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve.

In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including the Parent Company and State Street Bank, if, in the Federal Reserve’s opinion, the payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.  All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and purchase our stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary.

In June2017, we received the results of the Federal Reserve’s review of our 2017 capital plan in connection with its2017annual CCAR process.  The Federal Reserve did not object to the capital actions we proposed in our2017capital plan and, in June 2017, our Board approved a new common stock



State Street Corporation |8






purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to$1.4 billionof our common stock from July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we purchased approximately7.4 millionshares of our common stock at an average per-share cost of$94.54and an aggregate cost of approximately$700 millionunder this program.  Our2017capital plan included an increase, subject to approval by our Board, to our quarterly stock dividend to $0.42 per share from $0.38 per share, beginning in the third quarter of 2017.  Our common stock and other stock dividends, including the declaration, timing and amount thereof, remain subject to consideration and approval by our Board of Directors at the relevant times.

The Federal Reserve, under the Dodd-Frank Act, requires us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests and to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic scenario.  In October 2017, we provided summary results of our 2017 mid-cycle State Street-run stress tests on the “Investor Relations” section of our corporate website.  We are also required to undergo an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve.

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires State Street Bank to conduct an annual stress test.  State Street Bank must submit its 2018 annual State Street Bank-run stress test to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2018.

In January 2017, the Federal Reserve adopted revisions to the capital plan and stress test requirements that, among other things, reduce thede minimisthreshold for additional capital distributions that a firm may make during a capital plan cycle without seeking the Federal Reserve’s prior approval. The final rule also establishes a one-quarter “blackout period” while the Federal Reserve is conducting CCAR during which firms are not permitted to submitde minimisexception notices or prior approval requests for additional capital distributions.  The Federal Reserve is currently considering making further changes to CCAR requirements, which may change our minimum capital requirements.

The Volcker Rule

We are subject to the Volcker rule and implementing regulations.  The Volcker rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited proprietary trading activities, as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations, subject to exemptions for market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging, underwriting and certain other activities.  The Volcker rule also requires banking entities to either restructure or divest certain ownership interests in, and relationships with, covered funds (as such terms are defined in the final Volcker rule regulations).



The final Volcker rule regulations require banking entities to establish extensive programs designed to ensure compliance with the restrictions of the Volcker rule.  We have established a compliance program which we believe complies with the final Volcker rule regulations as currently in effect.  Such compliance program restricts our ability in the future to service certain types of funds, in particular covered funds for which SSGA acts as an advisor and certain types of trustee relationships.  Consequently, Volcker rule compliance entails both the cost of a compliance program and loss of certain revenue and future opportunities.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

As aSIFI, we are subject to heightened prudential standards, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements.  Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which includes us, became automatically subject to the systemic-risk regime in 2010.

The FSOC can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for SIFIs, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions.  The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the  Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us.

Under the Federal Reserve's final rule implementing certain enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies, we are required to comply with various liquidity-related risk management standards and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing.  This liquidity buffer is in addition to other liquidity requirements, such as the LCR and, when implemented, the NSFR.  The final rule also establishes requirements and responsibilities for our risk committee and mandates risk management standards.  We became subject to these standards in January 2015.

In March 2016, the Federal Reserve re-proposed rules that would establish single-counterparty credit limits for large banking organizations, with more stringent limits for the largest banking organizations. U.S. G-SIBs, including us, would be subject to a limit of 15% of tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any “major counterparty” (defined as other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs and non-bank SIFIs supervised by the



State Street Corporation |9






Federal Reserve) and to a limit of 25% of tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty.

In September 2017, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule that imposes contractual requirements on certain “qualified financial contracts” to which U.S. G-SIBs, including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. Under the final rule, certain qualified financial contracts generally must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against a U.S. G-SIB, or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB, are limited to the same extent as they would be under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations. In addition, certain qualified financial contracts may not, among other things, permit the exercise of any cross-default right against a U.S. G-SIB or subsidiary of a U.S. G-SIB based on an affiliate’s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings, subject to certain creditor protections.  There is a phased-in compliance schedule based on counterparty type, with a first compliance date of January 1, 2019.

In addition, the final rules create an early-remediation regime to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level.

The systemic-risk regime also provides that, for institutions deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets.  Upon a grave-threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk of the grave threat.  The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.

Resolution Planning

State Street, like other bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, periodically submits a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure — commonly referred to as a resolution plan or a living will — to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC under Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. Through resolution planning, we seek, in the event of the insolvency of State Street, to maintain State Street



Bank’s role as a key infrastructure provider within the financial system, while minimizing risk to the financial system and maximizing value for the benefit of our stakeholders. We have and will continue to focus management attention and resources to meet regulatory expectations with respect to resolution planning.

We submitted our 2017 resolution plan describing our preferred resolution strategy to the Federal Reserve and FDIC on June 30, 2017.  On December 19, 2017, the Federal Reserve and FDIC announced that they had completed their review and had not identified deficiencies or specific shortcomings.  Nonetheless, the agencies identified four common areas in which more work may need to be done by all firms, including State Street, to continue to improve resolvability: intra-group liquidity; internal loss-absorbing capacity; derivatives; and payment, clearing and settlement activities. State Street’s next resolution plan is due July 1, 2019.

In the event of material financial distress or failure, our preferred resolution strategy is the SPOE Strategy.  The SPOE Strategy provides that prior to the bankruptcy of the Parent Company and pursuant to a support agreement among the Parent Company, SSIF (a direct subsidiary of the Parent Company), State Street’s Beneficiary Entities (as defined below) and certain other State Street entities, SSIF is obligated, up to its available resources, to recapitalize and/or provide liquidity to State Street Bank and the other State Street entities benefiting from such capital and/or liquidity support (collectively with State Street Bank, “Beneficiary Entities”), in amounts designed to prevent the Beneficiary Entities from themselves entering into resolution proceedings.  Following the recapitalization of, or provision of liquidity to the Beneficiary Entities, the Parent Company would enter into a bankruptcy proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  The Beneficiary Entities and other State Street subsidiaries would be transferred to a newly organized holding company held by a reorganization trust for the benefit of the Parent Company’s claimants.

Under the support agreement, the Parent Company has pre-funded SSIF by contributing certain of its assets (primarily its liquid assets, cash deposits, investments in intercompany debt, investments in marketable securities and other cash and non-cash equivalent investments) to SSIF contemporaneous with entering into the support agreement and will continue to contribute such assets, to the extent available, on an on-going basis.  In consideration for these contributions, SSIF has agreed in the support agreement to provide capital and liquidity support to the Parent Company and all of the Beneficiary Entities in accordance with the Parent Company’s capital and liquidity policies.  Under the support agreement, the Parent Company is only permitted to



State Street Corporation |10






retain cash needed to meet its upcoming obligations and to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding.  SSIF has provided the Parent Company with a committed credit line and issued (and may issue) one or more promissory notes to the Parent Company (the "Parent Company Funding Notes") that together are intended to allow the Parent Company to continue to meet its obligations throughout the period prior to the occurrence of a "Recapitalization Event" (as defined below).  The support agreement does not contemplate that SSIF is obligated to maintain any specific level of resources and SSIF may not have sufficient resources to implement the SPOE Strategy.

In the event a Recapitalization Event occurs, the obligations outstanding under the Parent Company Funding Notes would automatically convert into or be exchanged for capital contributed to SSIF.  The obligations of the Parent Company and SSIF under the support agreement are secured through a security agreement that grants a lien on the assets that the Parent Company and SSIF would use to fulfill their obligations under the support agreement to the Beneficiary Entities.  SSIF is a distinct legal entity separate from the Parent Company and the Parent Company’s other affiliates.

In accordance with its policies, State Street is required to monitor, on an ongoing basis, the capital and liquidity needs of State Street Bank and the other Beneficiary Entities.  To support this process, State Street has established a trigger framework that identifies key actions that would need to be taken or decisions that would need to be made if certain events tied to State Street’s financial condition occur.  In the event that State Street experiences material financial distress, the support agreement requires State Street to model and calculate certain capital and liquidity triggers on a regular basis to determine whether or not the Parent Company should commence preparations for a bankruptcy filing and whether or not a Recapitalization Event has occurred.

Upon the occurrence of a Recapitalization Event: (1) SSIF would not be authorized to provide any further liquidity to the Parent Company; (2) the Parent Company would be required to contribute to SSIF any remaining assets it is required to contribute to SSIF under the support agreement (which specifically exclude amounts designated to fund expected expenses during a potential bankruptcy proceeding); (3) SSIF would be required to provide capital and liquidity support to the Beneficiary Entities to support such entities’ continued operation to the extent of its available resources and consistent with the support agreement; and (4) the Parent Company would be expected to commence Chapter 11 proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  No person or entity, other than a party to the support agreement, should rely, including in evaluating any



State Street entity from a creditor's perspective or determining whether to enter into a contractual relationship with any State Street entity, on any State Street affiliate being or remaining a Beneficiary Entity or receiving capital or liquidity support pursuant to the support agreement.

A “Recapitalization Event” is defined under the support agreement as the earlier occurrence of one or more capital and liquidity thresholds being breached or the authorization by the Parent Company's Board of Directors for the Parent Company to commence bankruptcy proceedings. These thresholds are set at levels intended to provide for the availability of sufficient capital and liquidity to enable an orderly resolution without extraordinary government support.  The SPOE Strategy and the obligations under the support agreement may result in the recapitalization of State Street Bank and the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the Parent Company at an earlier stage of financial stress than might otherwise occur without such mechanisms in place.  An expected effect of the SPOE Strategy and applicable TLAC regulatory requirements is that State Street’s losses will be imposed on the Parent Company shareholders and the holders of long-term debt and other forms of TLAC securities currently outstanding or issued in the future by the Parent Company, as well as on any other Parent Company creditors, before any of its losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of the Parent Company's operating subsidiaries or any of their depositors or creditors, or before U.S. taxpayers are put at risk.

There can be no assurance that credit rating agencies, in response to our resolution plan or the support agreement, will not downgrade, place on negative watch or change their outlook on our debt credit ratings, generally or on specific debt securities.  Any such downgrade, placement on negative watch or change in outlook could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in restrictive covenants in future debt agreements and could also adversely impact the trading prices, or the liquidity, of our outstanding debt securities.

State Street Bank is also required to submit periodically to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure, referred to as an IDI plan.  Under the IDI plan rule, submission of the IDI plan is scheduled for July 1, 2018.

Orderly Liquidation Authority

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as State Street, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to the orderly liquidation authority.  The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the U.S. President, must first make certain extraordinary



State Street Corporation |11






financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board.  Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed.  If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as the receiver of State Street Bank, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve us, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution.

In  2013, the FDIC released its proposed single-point-of-entry strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC’s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.

Derivatives

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposed a comprehensive regulatory structure on the OTC derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record-keeping. Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a major swap participant, a swap dealer or a securities-based swap dealer.  TheCFTC, the SEC, and other U.S. regulators have largely implemented key provisions of Title VII, although certain final regulations have only been in place a short period of time and others have not been finalized.  Through this rulemaking process, these regulators collectively have adopted or proposed, among other things, regulations relating to reporting and record-keeping obligations, margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration and the



central clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain over-the-counter derivatives.  The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities.  The CFTC, along with other regulators, including the Federal Reserve, have also issued final rules with respect to margin requirements for uncleared derivatives transactions.

State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer.  As a provisionally registered swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators.  The CFTC has granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation.  Under this limited-purpose designation, interest-rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank’s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a number of conditions.  For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap dealer regulations.

Money Market Funds

The SEC has adopted amendments to the regulations governing money market funds to address potential systemic risks and improve transparency for money market fund investors.  Among other things, the amendments require a floating net asset value for institutional prime money market funds (i.e., money market funds that are either not restricted to natural person investors or not restricted to investing primarily in U.S. government securities) and permit (and in some cases require) all money market funds to impose redemption fees and gates under certain circumstances.  As a result of these reforms, money market funds may be required to take certain steps that will affect their structure and/or operations, which could in turn affect the liquidity, marketability and return potential of such funds.  Full conformance with these amendments was required by October 14, 2016.

Money market reforms are also being introduced in Europe in 2018 and 2019.  The SEC's amended regulations, and the potential reforms in Europe, could alter the business models of money market fund sponsors and asset managers, including many of our servicing clients and SSGA, and may result in reduced levels of investment in money market funds.  As a result, these requirements may have an adverse impact on our business, our operations or our consolidated results of operations.

Subsidiaries

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.



State Street Corporation |12






Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities.  State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch.  Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the OCC, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate.  Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.

We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our subsidiaries, on the other.  Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank’s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements.  Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized.  In addition, the Volcker rule generally prohibits similar transactions between the Parent Company or any of its affiliates and covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor and other covered funds organized and offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the final Volcker rule regulations.

Federal law also requires that certain transactions by a bank with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies.  Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.



State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services.  Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.

Our subsidiaries,

SSGA FM

and

SSGA Ltd.

, act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  SSGA FM, incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is registered with the

CFTC

These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority.  Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to ERISA, and is regulated by the U.S. DOL.



State Street Corporation |13






State Street has two subsidiaries that operate as a U.S. broker/dealer and are registered as such with the SEC, are subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC's net capital rule) and are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. State Street Global Advisors Funds Distributors LLC, (SSGAFD) operates as a limited purpose broker/dealer distributing and related marketing activities for SSGA's U.S. mutual funds and ETFs.  SSGAFD also acts as a placement agent for certain private funds advised by SSGA FM.  Our other U.S. broker/dealer is State Street Global Markets LLC (SSGM LLC) which provides agency execution services.

The U.K. broker/dealer business operates through our subsidiary, State Street Global Markets International Limited, which is registered in the U.K. as a regulated securities broker, is authorized and regulated by the FCA and is an investment firm under the MiFID, and is a member of the London Stock Exchange.  In accordance with the rules of the FCA, the U.K. broker/dealer publishes information on its risk management objectives and on policies associated with its regulatory capital requirements and resources.

Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject to regulation by the CFTC in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses.  In addition, we have a subsidiary registered with the CFTC as a swap execution facility.

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office.  For instance, among others, the FCA, the U.K. PRA and the Bank of England regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Central Bank of Ireland regulates our activities in Ireland; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority regulates our activities in Germany; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier regulates our activities in Luxembourg; our German banking group is also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank under the ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism; the Securities and Futures Commission regulates our asset management activities in Hong Kong; the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission regulate our activities in Australia; and the Financial Services Agency and the Bank of Japan regulate our activities in Japan.  We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations.  However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity, costs and risks related to regulation.



The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank’s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank.  An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities.  In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, neither of which is subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries.

Additionally, Massachusetts has its own bank holding company statute, under which State Street, among other things, may be required to obtain prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for an acquisition of more than 5% of any additional bank's voting shares, or for other forms of bank acquisitions.

Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Transparency

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and related regulations, which containAMLand financial transparency provisions and which require implementation of  an AML compliance program, including processes for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities.  AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.  We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to promote compliance with applicable AML laws and regulations.  AML laws and regulations applicable to our operations may be more stringent than similar requirements applicable to our non-regulated competitors or financial institutions principally operating in other jurisdictions.  Compliance with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and any failure by us to comply with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals, restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation.

On June 1, 2015, we entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and the Massachusetts Division of Banks relating to



State Street Corporation |14






deficiencies identified in our compliance programs with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, AML regulations and U.S. economic sanctions regulations promulgated by OFAC.  As part of this agreement, we have been required to, among other things, implement improvements to our compliance programs and retain an independent firm to conduct a review of account and transaction activity to evaluate whether any suspicious activity was not previously reported.  If we fail to comply with the terms of the written agreement, we may become subject to fines and other regulatory sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on us.

Deposit Insurance

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC.  The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits.

The FDIC’sDIFis funded by assessments on insured depository institutions.  The FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period.  For larger institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base.

The FDIC is required to determine whether and to what extent adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for “custody banks" that satisfy specified institutional eligibility criteria.  The FDIC has concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks.  This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks.  State Street Bank is a custody bank for this purpose.  The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset.

In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule that imposes on IDIs with at least $10 billion in assets, which includes State Street Bank, a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 per annum of their assessment base for deposit insurance,  as defined by the FDIC, until the DIF reaches the required ratio of 1.35, which the FDIC estimates will occur in 2018. The surcharge took effect for the assessment period beginning July 2016.

Prompt Corrective Action

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository



institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including minimum capital ratios.  While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as our Parent Company, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary.  In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of a capital restoration plan if one of our banking subsidiaries were undercapitalized.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under Federal Reserve regulations, a bank holding company such as our Parent Company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries.  This requirement was added to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Dodd-Frank Act.  This means that we have a statutory obligation to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement.  In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.

Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository Institution

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party.  Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded priority overother general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. branches and offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver.  As a result, such persons would be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.



ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment.  Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve



State Street Corporation |15






directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy.  Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve.  Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those shareholders.  We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as theECB.



CYBER RISK MANAGEMENT

In October 2016, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including State Street and its banking subsidiaries. The proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector.



STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein:

“Selected Financial Data” table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.

“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest income and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

“Investment Securities” section included in Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note3, “Investment Securities,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category).



Note4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.“Loans and Leases” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.“Loans and Leases” and “Cross-Border Outstandings” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) - disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.“Credit Risk Management” section included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note4, “Loans and Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses, and a description of factors which influenced management’s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.“Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential” table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information.Note8, “Short-Term Borrowings,” to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.



State Street Corporation |16








