ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



Equifax Inc. is a leading global provider of
information solutions for businesses and consumers. We have a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including financial
institutions, corporations, governments and individuals. Our products and services are based on comprehensive databases of consumer
and business information derived from numerous types of credit, financial, employment, income, public record, demographic and marketing
data. We use proprietary tools to analyze all available data to create customized insights, decision-making solutions and processing
services for our clients. We help consumers understand, manage and protect their personal information and make more informed financial
decisions. Additionally, we are a leading provider of payroll-related and human resources business process outsourcing services
in the United States of America, or U.S.



We currently operate in three global regions:
North America (U.S. and Canada), Europe (the United Kingdom, or U.K., Spain and Portugal) and Latin America (Argentina, Chile,
Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We also maintain support operations in the Republic of
Ireland, Chile and Costa Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in
Brazil and offer credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.



Equifax was originally incorporated under the
laws of the State of Georgia in 1913, and its predecessor company dates back to 1899. As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company,
we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where
it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.



We are organized and report our business results
in five operating segments, as follows:



•U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)—provides consumer information solutions to businesses in
the U.S. including online consumer information, decisioning technology solutions, fraud and identity management services, and portfolio
management services (OCIS), mortgage reporting and settlement solutions, and consumer financial marketing services (CFMS).



•International—includes our Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America business units. Products and services
offered are similar to those available in the USCIS, North America Commercial Solutions and North America Personal Solutions operating
segments but vary by geographic region.



•TALX Workforce Solutions—provides services enabling clients to verify income and employment (Verification
Services) and outsource and automate the performance of certain payroll-related and human resources management and business processes,
including social security number verification, employment-related tax management and talent management services (TALX Employer
Services).



•North America Personal Solutions—provides products to consumers enabling them to monitor, manage and
protect their credit, credit score and identity information and make more informed financial decisions.



•North America Commercial Solutions—provides credit, financial, marketing and other information regarding
businesses in the U.S. and Canada.








Our revenue base and business mix are diversified
among our five segments as depicted in the chart below.












PRODUCTS AND SERVICES



The following chart summarizes the key products
and services offered by each of the business units within our segments:



NorthNorthUSCISAmericaAmericaInternationalTALXMortgagePersonalCommercialCanadaLatinVerificationEmployerOCISCFMSServicesSolutionsSolutionsConsumerEuropeAmericaServicesServicesOnline consumer informationXXXXXXXBusiness credit & demographic informationXXXXScores and analytical servicesXXXXXXXXXXEnabling technology services (i.e., decisioning platforms)XXXXXXIdentity authentication/fraudXXXXXXConsumer financial marketing servicesXXXXXBusiness marketing services and database managementXXXDirect to consumer credit monitoringXXXIdentity protectionXXXEmployment, income and identity verification servicesXBusiness process outsourcing (BPO)XXX





Each of our operating segments is described
more fully below.



USCIS



USCIS provides consumer information solutions
to businesses in the U.S. through three product lines, as follows:



Online Consumer Information Solutions
(OCIS).OCIS products are derived from multiple large databases of consumer information that we maintain about individual
consumers, including credit history, current credit status, payment history and consumer address information. Our customers utilize
the information we provide to make decisions for a wide range of financial and business purposes, such as whether, and on what
terms, to approve auto loans or credit card applications, whether to allow a consumer to open a new utility or telephone account,
cross-selling additional products to existing customers, improving their underwriting and risk management decisions and many other
business uses. We also offer analytical and predictive services based on the information in the consumer databases to help further
mitigate the risk of granting credit by verifying the identity of consumers, predicting the risk of bankruptcy, or indicating the
applicant’s risk potential for account delinquency. These risk management services, as well as fraud detection and prevention
services, enable our customers to monitor risks and opportunities and proactively manage their existing consumer accounts.








OCIS customers access products through a full
range of electronic distribution mechanisms, including direct real-time access, which facilitates instant decisions. We also develop
and host customized applications that enhance the decision-making process for our customers. These decisioning technology applications
assist with pre-approved offers, cross-selling of various products, determining deposit amounts for telephone and utility companies,
and verifying the identity of consumer customers.



Mortgage Solutions.Our Mortgage
Solutions products, offered in the U.S., consist of specialized credit reports that combine information from the three major consumer
credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian Group and TransUnion LLC) into a single “merged” credit report in an online
format, commonly referred to as a tri-merge report. Mortgage lenders use these tri-merge reports in making their mortgage underwriting
decisions. Additionally, we offer various “triggering” services designed to alert lenders to changes in a consumer’s
credit status during the underwriting period and securitized portfolio risk assessment services for evaluating inherent portfolio
risk. We also offer certain mortgage settlement services, such as appraisal, title and closing documentation, with certain of these
services provided through agreements with third parties.



Consumer Financial Marketing Services
(CFMS).Our CFMS products utilize consumer financial information enabling our customers to more effectively manage their
marketing efforts, including targeting and segmentation; identify and acquire new customers for their products and services; and
realize additional revenue from existing customers through more effective cross-selling and up-selling of additional products and
services. These products utilize information derived from consumer information, including credit, income, asset, liquidity, net
worth and spending activity, which also support many of our OCIS products. These data assets broaden the understanding of customer
financial potential and opportunity which can further drive high value decisioning and targeting solutions for our customers. We
also provide account review services which assist our customers in managing their existing customers and prescreen services that
help our clients identify new opportunities with their customers. Customers for these products primarily include institutions in
the banking, brokerage, retail, insurance, and mortgage industries as well as companies primarily focused on digital and interactive
marketing.



International



The International operating segment includes
our Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America business units. These business units offer products that are similar to those available
in the USCIS operating segment, and to a lesser extent our North America Commercial and Personal Solutions segments, although data
sources tend to rely more heavily on government agencies than in the U.S. These products generate revenue in Argentina, Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the U.K. and Uruguay. We also maintain support
operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile and Costa Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial
credit information company in Brazil and offer consumer credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.



Canada Consumer.Similar to our
OCIS, Mortgage Solutions and CFMS business units, Canada Consumer offers products derived from the credit information that we maintain
about individual consumers. We offer many products in Canada, including credit reporting and scoring, consumer marketing, risk
management, fraud detection and modeling services, together with certain of our decisioning products that facilitate pre-approved
offers of credit and automate a variety of credit decisions.



Europe.Our European operation
provides information solutions, marketing and personal solutions products. Information solutions and personal solutions products
are generated from information that we maintain and include credit reporting and scoring, asset information, risk management, fraud
detection and modeling services. Most of these products are sold in the U.K. with a more limited set of information solutions products
sold in Portugal and Spain. Our commercial products, such as business credit reporting and commercial risk management services,
are only available in the U.K. Marketing products, which are similar to those offered in our CFMS business unit, are primarily
available in the U.K. and, to a lesser extent, in Spain.



Latin America.Our Latin American
operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products and marketing products. We offer a full range of products,
generated from credit records that we maintain, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management,
identity verification and fraud detection services. Our consumer products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries
in which we operate. We also offer various commercial products, which include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management
services, in the countries we serve. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated
from our credit information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The
countries in which we operate include Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.








TALX Workforce Solutions



TALX Workforce Solutions operates in the U.S.
through two business units, as follows:



Verification Services.Verification
Services include employment, income and social security number verification services. Our online verification services enable employers
to direct third-party verifiers to our work number database to verify the employee’s employment status and income information.
We also offer an offline research verification service which expands employment verification to locate data outside our existing
work number database. In 2009, we increased our services to provide IRS income verifications using theIncomeChek®product as well as identity verification through a secure, web-based portal using theDirectChek®product.



We rely on payroll data received from over 2,250
organizations, including almost three quarters of Fortune 500 companies, to regularly update the database. This data is updated
as employers transmit data electronically directly to us from their payroll systems. Employers contract to provide this data to
us for specified periods under the terms of contracts which range from one to five years. We use this data to provide employment
and income verifications to third-party verifiers; the fees we charge for these services are generally per transaction. After the
expiration of the applicable contract, absent renewal by mutual agreement of the parties, we generally do not have any further
right to use the employment data we obtained pursuant to the contract. We have not experienced significant turnover in the employer
contributors to the database because we generally do not charge them to add their employment data to the database and the verification
service we offer relieves them of the administrative burden and expense of responding to third party employment verification requests.
The database contained approximately 210 million current and historic employment records at December 31, 2011.



Employer Services.



North America Personal Solutions



Our Personal Solutions products give consumers
information to make financial decisions and monitor and protect credit, credit score and identity information through our Equifax
Complete, ID Patrol, Credit Watch and Score Watch monitoring products. Consumers can obtain a copy of credit file information about
them and their credit score. We offer monitoring products for consumers who are concerned about identity theft and data breaches,
including the Credit Report Control service that allows consumers subscribing to our credit monitoring products to restrict access
to their credit report to mitigate unauthorized use of Equifax credit file information by third parties. Our products are available
to consumers directly and through relationships with business partners who distribute our products or provide these services to
their employees or customers.








North America Commercial Solutions



Our Commercial Solutions products are derived
from databases of credit, financial and marketing information regarding businesses in the U.S. and Canada. Databases we have compiled
include loan; credit card; public records and leasing history data; trade accounts receivable performance; and Secretary of State
and Securities and Exchange Commission registration information. We also offer scoring and analytical services that provide additional
information to help mitigate the credit risk assumed by our customers. We also have a marketing database which hosts approximately
50 million commercial demographic data records from around the world helping companies to identify corporate family structures
for enterprise visibility of customers and suppliers. In addition, we are integrating information from other databases, such as
asset information, that will make our marketing services offerings more valuable.



A portion of the business records included in
the U.S. credit database has been developed in part from the Small Business Financial Exchange, Inc., or SBFE. SBFE members, including
a number of commercial lending financial institutions, contribute their data to the member-owned SBFE database which we exclusively
manage and market the data. Our contract with the SBFE is scheduled to expire at the end of 2012, unless renewed by mutual agreement
of the parties. While we have successfully maintained our access to the data at prior renewal dates, the information comprising
the database is generally not owned by us, and the SBFE could decide that we no longer have exclusive marketing rights to the information
in the database, the SBFE could elect to have another party manage the database, or the participating organizations could discontinue
contributing information to the database.



OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY



Our strategic objective is to be the trusted
provider of information driven solutions that empower our customers with the ability to make critical decisions with greater confidence.
Data is at the core of our value proposition. Leveraging our extensive resources, we deliver differentiated decisions through a
broad and diverse set of data assets, sophisticated analytics and proprietary decisioning technology. Our comprehensive set of
data assets can provide an in-depth view of the consumer’s financial potential and opportunity including their propensity,
ability and capacity to pay. Our long-term corporate growth strategy is driven by the following initiatives:



•Increase penetration of our customers’ information solutions needs.We seek to increase our share of customers’
spending on information-related services through the development and introduction of new products, pricing our services in accordance
with the value they create, increasing the range of current services utilized by our customers, and improving the quality and effectiveness
of our sales organization and customer support interactions with consumers. We are also helping customers address increased compliance.



•Deploy decisioning technologies and analytics globally.We continue to invest in and develop new technology to enhance
the functionality, cost-effectiveness and security of the services we offer and further differentiate our products from those offered
by our competitors. In addition to custom products for large customers, we develop off-the-shelf, decisioning technology platforms
that are more cost-effective for medium- and smaller-sized customers. We also develop predictive scores and analytics, some of
which leverage multiple data assets, to help customers acquire new customers and manage their existing customer relationships.
We develop a broad array of industry, risk management, cross-sell and account acquisition models to enhance the precision of our
customers’ decisioning activities.



•Invest in unique data sources.We continue to invest in and acquire unique sources of credit and non-credit information
to enhance the variety and quality of our services while increasing customers’ confidence in information-based business decisions.
Areas of focus for investment in new sources of data include, among others, positive payment data, real estate data and new commercial
business data.



•Pursue new vertical markets and expand into emerging markets.We believe there are many opportunities to expand into
emerging markets both in the U.S. and internationally. In the U.S., our Capital Markets area offers unique products which enable
investors and underwriters to have a more current and relevant understanding of the inherent risk in a portfolio of loans. Our
Mortgage Services business continues to expand its presence in the mortgage value chain with a broader offering of mortgage underwriting
services. Also, we will continue to invest in growing our ventures in Russia, India and Brazil.








COMPETITION



The market for our products and services is
highly competitive and is subject to constant change. Our competitors vary widely in size and the nature of the products and services
they offer. Sources of competition are numerous and include the following:



•Competition for our consumer information solutions and personal solutions products varies by both application and industry,
but generally includes two global consumer credit reporting companies, Experian, and TransUnion, both of which offer a product
suite similar to our credit reporting solutions, and LifeLock, a national provider of personal identity theft protection products.
There are also a large number of smaller competitors who offer competing products in specialized areas (such as fraud prevention,
risk management and application processing and decisioning solutions) and software companies offering credit modeling services
or analytical tools. We believe that our products offer our customers an advantage over those of our competitors because of the
depth and breadth of our consumer information files, which we believe to be superior in terms of accuracy, coverage and availability.
Other differentiators include our decisioning technology and the features and functionality of our analytical services. Our competitive
strategy is to emphasize improved decision-making and product quality while remaining competitive on price. Our marketing services
products also compete with the foregoing companies and others who offer demographic information products, including Acxiom Corporation,
Harte-Hanks, Inc. and infoGROUP, Inc. We also compete with Fair Isaac Corporation with respect to certain of our analytical tools.



•Competition for our commercial solutions products primarily includes Experian, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, and Cortera,
Inc., and providers of these services in the international markets we serve. We believe our U.S. small business loan information
from financial institutions is a unique database and enables more efficient and effective decision-making for the small business
segment of that market.



•Competition for our employment and income verification services includes large employers who serve their own needs through
in-house systems to manage verification as well as regional online verification companies, such as Verify Jobs and First Advantage,
who offer verification services along with other human resources and tax services. Competition for TALX Employer Services includes
payroll processors such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., or ADP, Paychex, Inc. and Ceridian Corporation. Competitors of our
Tax Management Services include in-house management of this function primarily by large employers; ADP; and a number of smaller
regional firms that offer tax management services (including Barnett Associates, Thomas & Thorngren, UC Advantage). Talent
Management Services competitors include assessment service providers that offer proprietary content (Previsor, Inc., Development
Dimensions International, Brainbench, Inc.), human resources consulting firms (AON Corporation, Towers Watson, Right Management
Consulting) and assessment or test publishers that have proprietary delivery platforms (Devine Group, Inc., Hogan Assessments Systems,
Inc., SHL Group plc).



While we believe that none of our competitors
offers the same mix of products and services as we do, certain competitors may have a larger share of particular geographic or
product markets or operate in geographic areas where we do not currently have a presence.



We assess the principal competitive factors
affecting our markets to include: product attributes such as quality, depth, coverage, adaptability, scalability, interoperability,
functionality and ease-of-use; product price; technical performance; access to unique proprietary databases; availability in application
service provider, or ASP, format; quickness of response, flexibility and customer services and support; effectiveness of sales
and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; new product innovation; and our reputation as a trusted steward of information.



MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS



Our products and services serve clients across
a wide range of industries, including financial services, mortgage, human resources, consumer, commercial, telecommunications,
retail, automotive, utilities, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries, as well as state and federal governments. We also
serve consumers directly. Our revenue stream is highly diversified with our largest customer providing only 3% of total revenue.
The following table summarizes the various end-user markets we serve:








Percentage ofConsolidated Revenue20112010Financial26%26%Mortgage15%15%Consumer11%10%Employers10%11%Commercial7%8%Telecommunications7%7%Retail5%5%Automotive4%4%Other(1)15%14%100%100%



(1)Other includes revenue from marketing services, government, insurance and health care end-users.



We market our products and services primarily
through our own direct sales organization that is organized around sales teams that focus on customer segments typically aligned
by vertical markets and geography. Sales groups are based in our headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and field offices located in
the U.S. and in the countries where we have operations. We also market our products and services through indirect channels, including
alliance partners, joint ventures and other resellers. In addition, we sell through direct mail and various websites, such aswww.equifax.com.



Our largest geographic market segments are North
America (the U.S. and Canada); Europe (the U.K., Spain and Portugal); and Latin America (Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We also maintain support operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile and Costa
Rica. We have an investment in the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil and offer consumer
credit services in Russia and India through joint ventures.



Revenue from international customers, including
end-users and resellers, amounted to 26% of our total revenue in 2011 and 27% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2009.








TECHNOLOGY AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



We generally seek protection under federal,
state and foreign laws for strategic or financially important intellectual property developed in connection with our business.
Certain intellectual property, where appropriate, is protected by registration under applicable trademark laws or by prosecution
of patent applications. We own several patents registered in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. We also have certain registered
trademarks in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. The most important of these are “Equifax,” “TALX”,
“The Work Number” and many variations thereof. These trademarks are used in connection with most of our product lines
and services. The Company believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and trademarks are generally important
to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent
or group of patents or trademark. However, certain Company trademarks, which contribute to the Company’s identity and the
recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “Equifax” trademark, are an integral part
of our business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company.



We license other companies to use certain data,
technology and other intellectual property rights we own or control, primarily as core components of our products and services,
on terms that are consistent with customary industry standards and that are designed to protect our interest in our intellectual
property. Other companies license us to use certain data, technology and other intellectual property rights they own or control,
none of which is material to our business except for a license from Fair Isaac Corporation, relating to certain credit-scoring
algorithms and the right to sell credit scores derived from them. This license has a five-year term expiring in June 2013 and provides
for usage-based fees. Additionally, the licenses do not contain early termination provisions except for standard provisions providing
the right to terminate in the event of breach by the other party. We do not hold any franchises or concessions that are material
to our business or results of operations.



INFORMATION SECURITY AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Safeguarding the privacy and security of consumer
credit information, whether delivered online or in an offline format, is a top priority. We recognize the importance of secure
online transactions and we maintain physical, administrative, and technical safeguards reasonably designed to protect personal
and business identifiable information. We have security protocols and measures in place to protect information from unauthorized
access or alteration. These measures include internal and external firewalls, physical security and technological security measures,
and encryption of certain data.



Our databases are regularly updated by information
provided by financial institutions, telecommunications companies, other trade credit providers, employers, public records vendors
and government agencies. Various laws and regulations govern the collection and use of this information. These laws and existing
and proposed regulations impact how we are able to provide information to our customers and may significantly increase our compliance
costs. We are subject to differing laws and regulations depending on where we operate.



U.S. Data and Privacy Protection



Our U.S. operations are subject to various federal
and state laws and regulations governing the collection, protection and use of consumer credit and other information, and imposing
sanctions for the misuse of such information or unauthorized access to data. Many of these provisions also affect our customers’
use of consumer credit or other data we furnish. The information underlying our North America Commercial Services business is less
regulated than the other portions of our business.



Examples include:



•The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, which governs among other things the reporting of information to consumer reporting
agencies that engage in the practice of assembling or evaluating certain information relating to consumers, including our credit
reporting business and employment verification; making prescreened offers of credit; the sharing of consumer report information
among affiliated and unaffiliated third parties; access to credit scores; and requirements for data furnishers and users of consumer
report information. Violation of the FCRA, or of similar state laws, can result in an award of actual damages, as well as statutory
and/or punitive damages in the event of a willful violation.








•The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (2003), or FACT Act, which amended the FCRA and requires, among other things,
nationwide consumer credit reporting agencies, such as us, upon the request of a consumer, to place a fraud alert in the consumer’s
credit file stating that the consumer may be the victim of identity theft or other fraud, and furnish a free annual credit file
disclosure to consumers through a centralized request facility we have established with the other nationwide credit reporting agencies.
FACT Act regulations also require financial institutions to develop policies and procedures to identify potential identity theft,
and consumer credit report notice requirements for lenders that use consumer report information in connection with risk-based credit
pricing actions. Entities that furnish information to consumer reporting agencies are required to implement procedures and policies
regarding the accuracy and integrity of the furnished information and regarding the correction of previously furnished information
that is later determined to be inaccurate. Mortgage lenders are required to disclose credit scores to consumers. Additionally,
the FACT Act prohibits a business that receives consumer information from an affiliate from using that information for marketing
purposes unless the consumer is first provided a notice and an opportunity to direct the business not to use the information for
such marketing purposes (“opt-out”), subject to certain exceptions.



•The Financial Services Modernization Act (1999), or Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLB, which, among other things, regulates the
use of non-public personal financial information of consumers that is held by financial institutions. Equifax is subject to various
GLB provisions, including rules relating to the physical, administrative and technological protection of non-public personal financial
information. Breach of the GLB can result in civil and/or criminal liability and sanctions by regulatory authorities, such as fines
of up to $100,000 per violation and up to five years imprisonment for individuals.



•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (1996), or HIPAA, which requires reasonable safeguards to prevent intentional
or unintentional use or disclosure of protected health information.



•Most states in the U.S. have passed versions of security breach notification and credit file freeze legislation. A file freeze
enables consumers to place and lift a freeze on access to their credit files. File freeze laws impose differing requirements on
credit reporting agencies with respect to how and when to respond to such credit file freeze requests and in the fees, if any,
the agencies may charge for freeze-related actions.



•Federal and state laws governing the use of the Internet and regulating telemarketing, including the federal Controlling the
Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (2003), or CAN-SPAM, which regulates commercial email, prohibits false or
misleading header information, requires that a commercial email be identified as an advertisement, and requires that commercial
emails give recipients an opt-out method. Senate Bill 3386, enacted into federal law, seeks to protect online consumers from unfair
and deceptive sales tactics on the Internet. Other Internet privacy laws and regulations have been proposed from time to time to
address digital marketing, i.e., how personal information is collected and distributed online, including behavioral advertising.



•Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac regulations applicable to our credit reporting and mortgage solutions products, the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act and HUD’s Regulation X, which requires the disclosure of certain basic information to borrowers
concerning settlement costs and prohibits the charging of unearned fees and certain “kickbacks” or other fees for referrals
in connection with a residential mortgage settlement service.



•The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010), or Dodd-Frank Act,
                                                                   represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. The Dodd-Frank Act will allow
                                                                   consumers free access to their credit score if their score negatively affects them in a financial transaction or a hiring
                                                                   decision, and also gives consumers access to credit score disclosures as part of an adverse action and risk-based pricing
                                                                   notice. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or CFPB, within the Federal
                                                                   Reserve Board, and will require the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules
                                                                   and regulations. Significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act related to the CFPB became effective on July 21, 2011. The CFPB
                                                                   has broad powers to promulgate, administer and enforce consumer financial regulations, including those applicable to use and
                                                                   our customers.







Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
the CFPB is the principal supervisor and enforcer of federal consumer financial protection laws with respect to non-depository
institutions, or “nonbanks”, including, without limitation, any “covered person” who is a “larger
participant” in a market for other consumer financial products or services.

11With the appointment of a CFPB Director
by the President on January 4, 2012, the CFPB has begun to exercise authority to define unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and
practices and to require reports and conduct examinations of these entities for purposes of assessing compliance with federal
consumer financial protections laws; obtaining information about the activities and compliance systems or procedures of such entities;
and detecting and assessing risks to consumers and to markets for consumer financial products and services. The exercise of this
supervisory authority must be risk-based, meaning that the CFPB will identify nonbanks for examination based on the risk they
pose to consumers, including consideration of the entity’s asset size, transaction volume, risk to consumers, existing oversight
by state authorities, and any other factors that the CFPB determines to be relevant. On February 16, 2012, the CFPB issued a proposed
rule designating certain consumer reporting agencies, including the Company, as within its nonbank supervision program for “larger
participants.” The CFPB must issue its final rule by July 21, 2012.

As a “larger market participant,”
we are subject to CFPB supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. Such examination may include the filing of reports,
reviewing materials we use to offer products and services and our compliance management systems and procedures. When a nonbank
is in violation of federal consumer financial laws, including the CFPB’s own rules, the CFPB may pursue administrative proceedings
or litigation to enforce these laws and rules. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders, which can include
orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief, and monetary penalties ranging
from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1
million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations under
Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease
and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe that
we have committed a violation of the foregoing laws, they could exercise their enforcement powers in a manner that would have a
material adverse effect on us.



At this time, we cannot predict
the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations, including those of the CFPB, will impact the
U.S. economy or our business.



Compliance with these new
laws and regulations may require changes in the way we conduct our business and may result in additional compliance costs, which
could be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.








International Data and Privacy Protection



We are subject to data protection, privacy and
consumer credit laws and regulations in the various foreign countries where we do business, including, without limitation, the
following:



•In Canada, the federal and provincial privacy and provincial credit reporting laws apply to organizations
with respect to personal information that they collect, use or disclose in the course of commercial activities. The laws are based
on the National Standard of Canada Model Code for the Protection of Personal Information, covering accountability and identifying
purposes, consent, collection, use, disclosure, retention, accuracy, safeguards, individual access and compliance. The federal
and provincial privacy regulators have powers of investigation and intervention, and provisions of Canadian law regarding civil
liability apply in the event of unlawful processing which is prejudicial to the persons concerned. The European Union, or EU, recognizes
Canada as having adequate levels of protection for personal data transfers and processing.



•In Europe, Equifax is subject to the EU data protection regulations, including the comprehensive
EU Directive on Data Protection (1995), which imposes a number of obligations on Equifax with respect to use of personal data,
and includes a prohibition on the transfer of personal information from the EU to other countries that do not provide consumers
with an “adequate” level of privacy or security. The EU standard for adequacy is generally stricter and more comprehensive
than that of the U.S. and most other countries. In the U.K., in addition to the EU Directive on Data Protection, the Data Protection
Act of 1998 regulates the manner in which we can use third-party data. In addition, regulatory limitations affect our use of the
Electoral Roll, one of our key data sources in the U.K. Generally, the data underlying the products offered by our U.K. Information
Services and Personal Solutions product lines, excluding our Commercial Services products, are subject to these regulations. In
Spain and Portugal, the privacy laws which are subject to the EU Directive on Data Protection regulate all credit bureau and personal
solutions activities.



•In Latin America, consumer data protection and privacy laws and regulations exist in Argentina,
Chile, Peru and Uruguay. Uruguay generally follows the EU data protection model. There are also constitutional provisions in Argentina,
Chile, Peru and certain other countries which declare the right to seek judicial protection regarding the use of personal data,
and in many of those countries grant individuals the right to access and correction of information in the possession of data controllers.
Chile is in the process of revising its credit reporting provisions to promote more transparency about data use, and will consider
new data protection legislation later this year. The EU recognizes Argentina as having adequate levels of protection for personal
data transfers and processing.



•In India, several pieces of legislation, including the Information Technology Act 2000 and the Credit
Information Companies Regulation Act 2005 establish a federal data protection framework. Entities that collect and maintain personal
credit information to ensure that it is complete, accurate and safeguarded, and must adopt certain privacy principles with respect
to collecting, processing, preserving, sharing and using such credit information.



Tax Management Services



The Tax Management Services business within
our TALX Workforce Solutions segment is potentially impacted by changes in U.S. tax laws or interpretations, for example, those
pertaining to work opportunity tax credits and unemployment compensation claims. A subsidiary of TALX Workforce Solutions, Talent
Management, provides employee testing, assessment and talent management services to the federal government through a number of
primary contracts and subcontracts with federal agencies, including the Transportation Security Administration. These contracts
may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. federal government programs or contractor requirements, including the adoption of
new laws or regulations.



Environmental Regulation



We are subject to federal, state and local laws
and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not
in the past had any material effect on our earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position. However, the effect of such
compliance in the future cannot be predicted. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable federal, state and
local safety, health and environmental regulations.








PERSONNEL



Equifax employed approximately 6,500 employees
in 15 countries as of December 31, 2011. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and no work
stoppages have been experienced. Pursuant to local laws, certain of our employees in Argentina and Spain are covered under government-mandated
collective bargaining regulations that govern general salary and compensation matters, basic benefits and hours of work.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF EQUIFAX



The executive officers of Equifax and their
ages and titles are set forth below. Business experience and other information is provided in accordance with SEC rules.



Richard F. Smith (52)has been Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer since December 15, 2005. He was named Chairman-Elect and Chief Executive Officer effective September
19, 2005 and was elected as a Director on September 22, 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Smith served as Chief Operating Officer, GE Insurance
Solutions, from 2004 to September 2005 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Property and Casualty Reinsurance from 2003
to 2004.



Lee Adrean (60)has been Corporate Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2006. Prior to joining Equifax, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of NDCHealth Corporation from 2004 to 2006. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of EarthLink, Inc. from 2000 until 2004.



Kent E. Mast (68)has served as Corporate
Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since 2000. His responsibilities include legal services, global sourcing, security and compliance,
government and legislative relations, corporate governance and privacy functions.



Coretha M. Rushing (55)has been Corporate
Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2006. Prior to joining Equifax, she served as an executive coach and HR
Consultant with Atlanta-based Cameron Wesley LLC. Prior thereto, she was Senior Vice President of Human Resources at The Coca-Cola
Company, where she was employed from 1996 until 2004.



Paul J. Springman (66)has served as
Corporate Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since February 2004. Prior thereto, he was head of the Predictive Sciences
unit from August 2002 until February 2004.



David C. Webb (56)became Chief Information
Officer on January 19, 2010. Prior thereto, he served as Chief Operations Officer for SVB Financial Corp. from 2008, and from 2004
to 2008 was Chief Information Officer. Mr. Webb was Vice President, Investment Banking Division at Goldman Sachs, a leading global
investment banking, securities and investment management firm, from 1999 to 2004. He was Chief Information Officer at Bank One
from 1997 to 1999.



Rodolfo M. Ploder (51)has been President,
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President, International from January 2007 until
June 2010. Prior thereto, he was Group Executive, Latin America from February 2004 to January 2007.



J. Dann Adams (54)has been President
of Equifax’s TALX subsidiary since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President, U.S. Consumer Information Solutions
from 2007 to June 2010. Prior thereto, he served as Group Executive, North America Information Services from November 2003 until
December 2006.



Paulino R. Barros (55)has been President,
International since July 2010. Prior thereto, he served as President of PB&C Global Investments, LLC, an international consulting
and investment firm. Prior thereto, he was President of Global Operations for AT&T.



Joseph M. Loughran, III (44)has been
President, North America Personal Solutions since January 4, 2010. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President — Corporate
Development from April 2006 to December 2009. Prior to joining Equifax he held various executive roles at BellSouth Corporation
from May 2001 to April 2006, including most recently Managing Director-Corporate Strategy and Planning from May 2005 to April 2006.
Prior to joining BellSouth, Mr. Loughran held various roles with McKinsey & Company, King & Spalding, and Lazard Frères
& Co.








Alejandro (“Alex”) Gonzalez (42)has been President, North America Commercial Solutions since January 4, 2010. Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President of Strategic
Marketing from January 2006 to December 2009, and Customer Experience Leader for GE Insurance Solutions from January 2005 to December
2005.



Nuala M. King (58)has been Senior Vice
President and Controller since May 2006. Prior thereto, she was Vice President and Corporate Controller from March 2004 to April
2006. Prior to joining Equifax, Ms. King served as Corporate Controller for UPS Capital from March 2001 until March 2004.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS





AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Detailed information about us is contained in
our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports,
and amendments to those reports, that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. These reports are available free of charge at our website,
www.equifax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the
SEC. However, our website and any contents thereof should not be considered to be incorporated by reference into this document.
We will furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to Corporate Secretary, Equifax Inc., P.O. Box 4081,
Atlanta, Georgia, 30302.



