ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that
apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.

General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic
factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our
operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our
customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.

We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store
formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.

Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail
concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets,
other store formats, and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel






and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as
local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters
or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable
to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be
adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.

We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and
may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that
future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively
future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.

Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number
of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets,
prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor
or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many
other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty
stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale
grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety
and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club






operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Where necessary to
compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the
retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.

Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which
could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.

Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of
those products could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of
food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the
concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could
adversely affect our financial performance.

Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

We currently conduct operations in 12 countries in Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, 5 countries in Central America, Japan, Mexico and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2012, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 28% of our net sales. As a result of our
expansion activities in countries outside the United States, we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other
countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and
regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.

Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could
adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other
activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our
Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the
United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions
due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.






Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.

In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.

We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.






If we do not maintain the security of information relating to our customers, associates and vendors,
security information breaches through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, and we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.

As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and
vendors. In addition, our online operations atwww.walmart.com,www.samsclub.comand other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless
payments. We maintain security measures with respect to such information, but despite these measures, we may be vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and others that attempt to penetrate the security measures that we have in place. A
compromise of our security systems (through cyber-attacks or otherwise which are rapidly evolving and sophisticated) that results in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we
expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.

We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run
our business.

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand
for our products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services
our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes,
preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.



