ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.

Global and Domestic Economic Risks and Consumer Demand Risks

General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.

Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, digital retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  A critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. These factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, digital retail offerings or a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.

Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.

Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  As a result of such translations, future fluctuations in currency exchange rate over time that are unfavorable to us may result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate












fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse affect on our reported consolidated results of operations.

We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of goods sold may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs. Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.

Capital Investment and Information Systems Risks



We may face impediments to our expansion in the U.S., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.

Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.

We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.

We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.

Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant












investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  Any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.

Competitive and Reputational Risks

Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or through a combination of both areas), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.












If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.

Data and Privacy Risks

Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results.

As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.  In addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.  Each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  We maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us.

Any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.












As a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council.  PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  By accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with the American National Standards Institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines.  Even though we comply with these guidelines and standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.

Supply Chain and Third-Party Risks

Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.

Legal, Regulatory and Other External Risks

Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance.

We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa, Central America, China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  During fiscal2015, our Walmart International operations generated approximately28%of our consolidated net sales.  As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.

In particular, Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could adversely affect our financial performance.

Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other












factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.

In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.

Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.

In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.












We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.



