ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The risks described
below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to
all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.

General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.






Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of
labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws
and regulations and other economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic
and international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the
cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.

We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial
performance.

Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart
International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.

We may be unable to
continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly
acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify
appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial
performance.






Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could
adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on
our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and
distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which
we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract
or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely.

We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

Although the retail industry as a whole is highly
fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors
with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a
wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our
suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost
confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.






Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial,
accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture
agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2011, our Walmart International operations generated 26.1% of our net sales. As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the United States,
we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively
affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and
of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs
or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.

Moreover, the
economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may
impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and
risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and
difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States
generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.

Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.

In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.






We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.

Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Dukes

If we do
not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.

As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our online operations atwww.walmart.comandwww.samsclub.comdepend upon the secure
transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could
adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security
breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.

We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and
secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.

Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate
primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up
systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our
computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption
in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which
will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management
process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.






We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to predict consistently
and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or
effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.



