ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  These risks are not the only risks that we face.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.

General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, e-commerce retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our e-commerce businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  A critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. These factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for  purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, e-commerce offerings or through a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.












We may face impediments to our expansion in the U.S., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.

Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.

We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.

Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be adversely affected.












We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, e-commerce retail or through a combination of both areas), which could adversely affect our financial performance.

Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.

Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.












Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance.

We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa, Central America, Chile, China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  During fiscal2014, our Walmart International operations generated approximately29%of our consolidated net sales.  As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.

Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.

In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.












Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.

In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we are a defendant in

Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Dukes

case filed a similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas entitled

Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

, proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in any Walmart region that includes stores located in the state of Texas.  On October 15, 2012, the court in the

Odle

case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations and the individual claims of the lead plaintiff, Stephanie Odle.  On March 19, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal.  On October 2, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee entitled

Phipps v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc

., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 43, centered in Middle and Western Tennessee."  On February 20, 2013, the court in the

Phipps

case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  On September 11, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit granted the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal that ruling.  On October 4, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida entitled

Love v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc

., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in certain designated stores and clubs in regions centered in the state of Florida.  On September 23, 2013, the court in












theLovecase granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  Finally, on February 20, 2013, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, entitledLadik v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 14, which includes Wal-Mart retail stores located in parts of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana and Michigan."  On May 24, 2013, the court in theLadikcase granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  On June 13, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal.  We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.












If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.

Many of our customers shop with us over our merchandising websites, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer a "site-to-store" program under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly online merchandising platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of online and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results.

In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.

As a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  Despite our compliance with these standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others. In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.












We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.



