ITEM1 –BUSINESS

BUSINESSOVERVIEW

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and
institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally and others in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland,
Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Missouri, Wisconsin and Georgia. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At December 31, 2011, our consolidated total assets, deposits and total
shareholders’ equity were $271.2 billion, $188.0 billion and $34.1 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal
growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

PENDINGACQUISITIONOFRBC BANK(USA)

On June 19, 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement with Royal Bank of Canada and RBC USA Holdco Corporation to acquire RBC Bank (USA), the US
retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada, for $3.45 billion. The purchase price is subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments based on the closing date tangible net asset value of RBC Bank (USA), as defined in the definitive
agreement. RBC Bank (USA) has approximately $25 billion in “proforma” assets as reflected in the definitive agreement to be included in the transaction and more than 400 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and
South Carolina. The transaction is expected to close in March 2012, subject to remaining customary closing conditions.

FLAGSTARBRANCHACQUISITION

Effective December 9, 2011, PNC acquired 27 branches in the northern metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia area from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $210
million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.

BANKATLANTICBRANCHACQUISITION

Effective June 6, 2011, PNC acquired 19 branches in the greater Tampa, Florida area
from BankAtlantic, a subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $324 million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.

REVIEWOFBUSINESSSEGMENTS

In
addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the captions





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Business Segment Highlights, Product Revenue, and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in
Note 25 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue
and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2011 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and
to present those periods on the same basis. Business segment information does not include PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS). Results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related after-tax gain on its sale in the third
quarter of 2010 are reflected in discontinued operations.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment
management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and online banking channels. The branch network is
principally located in our primary geographical markets.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary
checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets. A key element of our strategy is to
expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which
is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured
loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital
markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting, and securities
sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking
provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier provider of financial services
in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to its customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the comprehensive resources of PNC to help
each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and prudent risk and expense management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and
institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals
and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments located
primarily in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual and institutional
asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality advice and investment management to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services.
Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service its clients, grow its business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and
also originates loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and sold,
servicing retained, to secondary mortgage conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation
performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans – primarily those in first lien position – for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loans originated through majority owned affiliates are sold to others.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships, providing quality
investment loans, and





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3




delivering acceptable returns under a moderate risk profile. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion, and cost-effective extension of
the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.

BlackRockis a leader in investment
management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. BlackRock provides diversified investment management services to institutional clients, intermediary and individual investors through various
investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily consist of the management of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products. BlackRock offers its investment products in a variety of
vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,iShares®exchange-traded funds
(“ETFs”), collective investment trusts and separate accounts. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of clients. Financial markets
advisory services include valuation services relating to illiquid securities, dispositions and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution.

We hold an equity investment in BlackRock. Our investment in BlackRock is a key component of our diversified revenue strategy. BlackRock’s ability
to increase revenue, earnings and shareholder value over time is predicated on its ability to generate new business in investment management andBlackRock Solutionsproducts and services. New business efforts are dependent on BlackRock’s
ability to achieve clients’ investment objectives in a manner consistent with their risk preferences and to deliver excellent client service. All of these efforts require the commitment and contributions of BlackRock employees. Accordingly, the
ability to attract and retain talented professionals is critical to BlackRock’s long-term success.

Non-Strategic Assets
Portfolio(formerly, Distressed Assets Portfolio) includes commercial residential development loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. We
obtained the majority of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies, and they fall outside of our core business strategy.

SUBSIDIARIES

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2011
consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 122 active non-bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.), headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For
additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.



STATISTICALDISCLOSUREBYBANKHOLDINGCOMPANIESThe following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report
and is incorporated herein by reference:Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis208Analysis Of Year-To-Year ChangesIn Net Interest Income207Book Values Of Securities41 – 44and 142 – 148Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities147Loan Types38 – 40127 and 209Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity211Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets73 – 81113 – 114127 –136 and 209 – 210Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale45 and 74 – 83Summary Of Loan Loss Experience81 – 83, 127 – 140and 210Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses81 – 83 and 211Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits208Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More162 and 211Selected Consolidated Financial Data27 – 28Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2011, 2010 and 2009
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.





4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




EUROPEANEXPOSURE

As of December 31, 2011, our loans, leases, securities, derivatives, letters of credit, unfunded contractual commitments and other direct financial
exposure (“exposure”) with European entities totaled $2.1 billion of which $1.6 billion or .59% of our total assets represent outstanding balances. European entities are defined as supranational, sovereign, financial institutions and
non-financial entities within the countries that comprise the European Union, European Union candidate countries and other European countries. Of the $2.1 billion in direct financial exposure, $357 million are securities issued by AAA-rated
sovereigns, $625 million represents cross-border leases in support of national infrastructure and supported by letters of credit having trigger mechanisms that require collateral in the form of cash or United States Treasury securities, and $440
million of unfunded contractual commitments primarily to United Kingdom local office commitments for Business Credit corporate customers on a secured basis. There was no individual country where the exposure was greater than .75% of total assets.

We also track other European financial exposures where PNC is appointed as a fronting bank by our clients and we elect to assume the joint
probability of default risk. For PNC to incur a loss in these types of indirect exposures, the obligor and the financial counterparty participating bank would need to default. As of December 31, 2011, PNC had $2.0 billion of indirect exposure where
PNC is the fronting bank.

Foreign exposure underwriting and approvals are centralized. Country exposures are monitored and reported on a
regular basis. We actively monitor sovereign risk, banking system health, and market conditions and adjust limits as appropriate. We rely on information from internal and external sources including international financial institutions, economists
and analysts, industry trade organizations, rating agencies, econometric data analytical service providers, and geopolitical news analysis services.

Among the regions and nations that PNC monitors, we have identified eight countries for which we are more closely monitoring their economic and financial situation. The basis for the increased monitoring
includes, but is not limited to, sovereign debt burden, near term financing risk, political instability, GDP trends, balance of payments, market confidence, banking system distress and/or holdings of stressed sovereign debt. The countries identified
are: Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain (collectively “GIIPS”), Belgium, France and Turkey. Direct and indirect exposure to entities in the GIIPS countries totaled $181 million as of December 31, 2011 of which $118 million is direct
exposure in the form of cross-border leases within Portugal and indirect exposure primarily composed of $48 million from letters of credit with strong underlying obligors and $15 million of unfunded commitments to Spain. Direct and indirect exposure
to entities in Belgium, France, and Turkey totaled $924 million as of December 31, 2011 of which, there is direct exposure of $75 million in the form of cross-border leases

within Belgium, and $11 million of 90% Overseas Private Investment Corporation (“OPIC”) guaranteed Turkish loans and indirect exposure primarily composed of $770 million in letters of
credit with strong underlying obligors in France and Belgium.

SUPERVISIONANDREGULATION

OVERVIEW

PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. You should also read Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, included here by reference, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments and require
compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from bank subsidiaries,
and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In
addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which results in
examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also capital levels, asset quality
and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our
activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations are
conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with the regulations or supervisory policies of the agency. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and
profitability of our operations.

We also are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by virtue of our status as
a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted by BlackRock,
are also subject to regulation by





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5




appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

Effective as of July 21, 2011, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new agency established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), assumed responsibility for examining PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with consumer financial protection laws and enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates. This authority previously was exercised by the OCC and Federal Reserve. Starting July 21, 2011, the CFPB also assumed authority for prescribing rules governing the provision of consumer financial products and services such as credit
cards, student and other loans, deposits and residential mortgages. After this date, the subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. are generally subject to state consumer protection laws. Additionally, new provisions concerning the applicability of state
consumer protection laws to national banks became effective on July 21, 2011. Questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws may be preempted with respect to PNC Bank, N.A. after this date. We expect to experience an
increase in regulation of our retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, revenue and costs impacts.

As a regulated
financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement
powers, and powers to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations. Dodd-Frank provides the CFPB with broad
enforcement powers over PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates with respect to compliance with consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB also has the ability to issue rules that affect a wide range of the consumer financial products and services that
we provide.

We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other
financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives would be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (Credit CARD Act), the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), and Dodd-Frank, as well as changes to the regulations
implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, including the new rules set forth in Regulation E related to overdraft charges.

Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the
conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change. See also the
additional information included in Item 1A of this Report under the risk factors discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the regulatory environment
for the financial services industry. Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years are compliance with anti-money laundering laws and the protection of confidential customer information. In
addition, at least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related regulatory reforms include measures aimed at
reducing mortgage foreclosures.

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the CFPB, the SEC, the CFTC, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of
operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities





6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding
companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of
financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets in general.

BANKINGREGULATIONANDSUPERVISION

On November 22, 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule implementing an annual capital plan review process for domestic bank holding companies
(BHCs) that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. In addition, on that date, the Federal Reserve launched its annual review process, referred to as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), for 2012. In connection with
the 2012 CCAR, and as part of the annual capital planning process in future years, the Federal Reserve will undertake a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of the BHCs, including PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated
assets. This capital adequacy assessment will be based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the Federal Reserve. In connection with the 2012 CCAR, PNC filed its capital plan with the Federal Reserve on
January 9, 2012.

The Federal Reserve will evaluate PNC’s capital plan based on PNC’s risk profile and the strength of
PNC’s internal capital assessment process under the regulatory capital standards currently applicable and in accordance with PNC’s plans to address proposed revisions to the regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (Basel III) and as set forth in relevant provisions of Dodd-Frank. The Federal Reserve’s evaluation will take into consideration any capital distribution plans, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends or to
reinstate or increase common stock repurchase programs. In conducting this analysis, the Federal Reserve will consider the projected capital adequacy and performance of PNC under base case and adverse economic scenarios developed by both PNC and the
Federal Reserve. After completing its review, the Federal Reserve may object or not object to the firm’s proposed capital actions. The Federal Reserve has stated that, after completion of the 2012 CCAR exercise, it expects to publish the
Federal Reserve’s estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the Federal Reserve’s own supervisory stress scenario for each of the largest 19 BHCs participating in the 2012 reviews, including PNC.

PNC expects to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2012 CCAR
by the end of the first quarter 2012. The Basel III capital framework has yet to be finalized by the Federal banking agencies and is therefore subject to further

change. Using management’s assumptions relevant to calculation of ratios under Basel III, PNC expects its proforma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III to reach about 8.0 to 8.5 percent
during 2013. This estimate is based on available data and information as of December 31, 2011 and on the phase-in of Basel III rules. It also represents our assumptions and interpretations regarding the Basel II advanced measurement approaches
regarding the calculation of risk-weighted assets related to credit, operational and market risk. Both our Basel II and Basel III estimates are point in time estimates and will be subject to both further regulatory guidance and clarity, and the
refinement of internal estimates and methodologies.

As a result of Dodd-Frank, subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. will be subject to state law
and regulation to the same extent as if they were not subsidiaries of a national bank. Additionally, based on Dodd-Frank, state authorities may assert that certain state consumer financial laws that provide different requirements or limitations than
Federal law may apply to national banks, including PNC Bank, N.A. Such state laws may be preempted if they meet certain standards set forth in Dodd-Frank or other applicable law.

Dodd-Frank established the 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of in general, including
changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce. financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically important” and could, in extraordinary cases and in conjunction
with the Federal Reserve, break up financial firms that are deemed to be “too big to fail.” Dodd-Frank also requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to
or greater than $50 billion that are more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to bank holding companies with assets below this threshold, and that increase in stringency for bank holding companies that present heightened risk to
the financial system. Additional information concerning these enhanced prudential standards is provided in Item 1A of this Report. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and refinement of these
prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements.

Because of PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject
to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our
liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank, N.A. is also subject to federal laws
limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7




in Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Further information on bank level
liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in “Liquidity Risk Management” in the Risk Management section and “Trust Preferred Securities” in the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
and VIEs section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The Gramm – Leach – Bliley Act (GLB Act) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become
a “financial holding company” and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates include securities
underwriters and dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or
are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. In order to be and remain a financial holding company, a bank holding
company and its subsidiary depository institutions must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a

financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity if any of its insured depository institutions received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation
under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).

The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with
its operating entities, such as its subsidiary broker-dealers, investment managers, investment companies, insurance companies and banks, also subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal
regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as
deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the
greater the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only
a “well capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an “adequately capitalized” depository institution may





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. In addition to the activities that would be permitted to be conducted by a financial subsidiary, national banks
(such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries may engage in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking.

Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all
potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities.

At December 31, 2011, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated “Outstanding” with respect to CRA.

FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of
FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles
take into account weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank
and result in an

aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. Under Dodd-Frank, in April 2011, the deposit insurance base calculation shifted from deposits to
average assets less Tier 1 capital. This methodology change did not materially impact the premiums due to the FDIC.

CFPB Regulation and
Supervision.The Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to
credit card, deposit, mortgage and other consumer financial products and services we offer. In addition, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB broad authority to take corrective action against PNC Bank, N.A. and PNC as it deems appropriate. The CFPB also has
powers that it was assigned in Dodd-Frank to issue regulations and take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At December 31,
2011, PNC Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to “Funding and Capital Sources” in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. The agency
also has authority to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. These authorities are in addition to the authority the CFPB assumed on July 21, 2011 under existing consumer financial law governing the
provision of consumer financial products and services.

SECURITIESANDDERIVATIVESREGULATION

The SEC is the functional regulator of our registered broker-dealer and investment advisor
subsidiaries. The registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), among others.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and provide services to clients, other PNC affiliates and related entities, including registered investment companies. Under
rules adopted under Dodd-Frank, we have been required to register additional subsidiaries as investment advisors to private equity funds. Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
and the regulations thereunder. Investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. An investment advisor to registered investment companies is also
subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9




Our broker-dealer and investment advisory subsidiaries also may be subject to state securities laws and
regulations. Over the past several years, the SEC and other governmental agencies have been focused on the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are continuing additional
reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those
industries.

Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment
companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to
continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the
capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls,
capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

BlackRock has
subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC and FINRA regulation, as described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information
about the regulation of BlackRock, we refer you to the discussion under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s
website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, Title VII of Dodd-Frank subjects virtually all derivative transactions (swaps) to regulation by either
the CFTC (in the case of non security-based swaps) or the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps). This legislation was enacted, among other reasons, to reduce systemic risk, increase transparency, and promote market integrity within the financial
system by, among other things: (i) providing for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers (SDs) and major swap participants (MSPs); (ii) imposing mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements on all standardized
swaps, with certain limited exemptions; (iii) creating robust recordkeeping and real-time public data reporting regimes with respect to swaps; (iv) imposing capital and margin requirements on SDs and MSPs; (v) imposing business
conduct requirements on SDs and MSPs in their dealings with counterparties; and (vi) enhancing the CFTC’s

and SEC’s rulemaking and enforcement authorities with respect to SDs and MSPs. Under the rules anticipated under Dodd-Frank, we expect one or more of our subsidiaries to register with the
CFTC as a SD for interest rate and foreign exchange swaps and accordingly be subject to all of the new regulations and requirements imposed on a SD with respect to these types of swaps.

COMPETITION

We are subject to intense competition from various financial
institutions and from non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including
collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate
risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars.

PNC Bank, N.A. competes for deposits with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.





10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




EMPLOYEES

Employees totaled 51,891 at December 31, 2011. This total includes 45,940 full-time and 5,951 part-time employees.

SEC REPORTSANDCORPORATEGOVERNANCEINFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this
information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also
maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy
statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We also
make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on
our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings.
Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting
Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available
electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s
corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the
PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our
Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by sending their requests to George
P. Long, III, Chief Governance Counsel and Corporate Secretary, at corporate headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

INTERNETINFORMATION

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our
corporate website under “About PNC – Investor Relations,” such as Investor Events, Quarterly Earnings, SEC Filings, Financial Information, Financial Press Releases and Message from the Chairman. Under “Investor Relations,”
we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings
releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite
public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the
sections above in the Investor Relations section of our website.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address
and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.

