ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Business Overview

Headquartered
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage
banking, providing many of our products and services nationally, as well as other products and services in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, North Carolina, Florida,
Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Alabama, Missouri, Georgia, Wisconsin and South Carolina. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At December 31, 2014, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and
total shareholders’ equity were $345.1 billion, $232.2 billion and $44.6 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal
growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

Review
Of Business Segments

In addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under
the captions Business Segment Highlights and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in Note 24 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were
not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2014 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the same basis.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment management and cash
management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, ATMs, call centers, online banking and mobile channels. The branch network is located
primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, North Carolina, Florida, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Alabama, Missouri, Georgia, Wisconsin and South Carolina.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue
growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, such as savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets, including retirement assets. A strategic priority for PNC is to redefine the retail banking business in
response to changing customer preferences. A key element of this strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to
continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized and large corporations, government and
not-for-profit entities. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer
services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, securities, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory, equity capital markets advisory and
related services. We also provide commercial loan servicing and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Products and services are generally provided within our primary geographic markets, with
certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K1




Corporate & Institutional Banking’s strategy is to be the leading relationship-based provider
of traditional banking products and services to its customers through the economic cycles. We aim to expand our market share and drive higher returns by growing and deepening customer relationships while maintaining prudent risk and expense
management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and
institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions, and trust management and administration for individuals
and their families. Hawthorn provides multi-generational family planning including wealth strategy, investment management, private banking, tax and estate planning guidance, performance reporting and personal administration services to ultra high
net worth families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody administration and retirement administration services. Institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and
endowments, primarily located in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual
and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality banking advice and trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors
through a broad array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service our clients, grow the business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence
within the retail banking footprint. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and either sold, servicing
retained, or held on PNC’s balance sheet. Loan sales are primarily to secondary mortgage conduits of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party
investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 2 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and
included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans, primarily those in first lien position, for various investors and for loans owned by PNC.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer
relationships, providing quality investment loans and mortgage servicing opportunities, and delivering acceptable returns consistent with our desired risk appetite. A strategic priority for PNC is to build a stronger residential mortgage business
offering seamless delivery to customers while improving efficiencies. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion and cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint for cross-selling
opportunities.

BlackRock, in which we hold an equity investment, is a leading publicly traded investment management firm
providing a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide. Using a diverse platform of active and index investment strategies across asset classes, BlackRock develops investment outcomes and
asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. BlackRock also offers an investment and risk management
technology platform, risk analytics and advisory services and solutions to a broad base of institutional investors. We hold our equity investment in BlackRock as a key component of our diversified revenue strategy. BlackRock is a publicly traded
company, and additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Non-Strategic Assets Portfolioincludes a consumer portfolio of mainly residential mortgage and brokered home equity loans and lines of
credit and a small commercial/commercial real estate loan and lease portfolio. We obtained a significant portion of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies.

Subsidiaries

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2014 consisted of
one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 80 active non-bank subsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank), a national bank
headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:



Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis223-224Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income225Book Values Of Securities43-44and 146-151Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities150-151Loan Types39-43,129-130 and 226Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity230Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets72-79,116-119,128-141 and 228Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale45 and 72-82Summary Of Loan Loss Experience80-82, 128-145and
229Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses80-82 and 229Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits223-224Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More174 and 230Selected Consolidated Financial Data30-31Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2014, 2013, and 2012
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.

Supervision and Regulation

PNC is a bank holding company (BHC) registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 20 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products
and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage,

fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary,
and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In
addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). These
examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors.
The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose
restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations fail to comply with applicable law or
regulations or are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and
profitability of our operations.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is responsible for examining PNC Bank and its affiliates
(including PNC) for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of
consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB’s examinations, which are not publicly available, also can result in restrictions or limitations on the
operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements.

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our
banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted by BlackRock, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of
our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3




foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities,
acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.

We anticipate new legislative and regulatory
initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to
continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially
material change. See also the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the
regulatory environment for PNC and the financial services industry.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory
focus over the last several years are compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, the protection of confidential customer information, and cyber-security
more generally. In addition, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other consumer protection issues.

Additional legislation,
changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the
method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing
taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions
and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and supervisory policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose
of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets
in general.

Dodd-Frank Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reformed the
regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Dodd-Frank

requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous new rules and regulations. Because federal agencies are granted broad discretion in drafting these rules and regulations, and
many implementing rules have not yet been issued, have only been issued in proposed form, or have only recently been finalized, many of the details and much of the impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for months or years. Among other things,
Dodd-Frank established the CFPB; provided for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; required that deposit insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository
institution’s assets rather than its insured deposits; raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) to 1.35%; established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the
derivatives activities of financial institutions; prohibited banking entities, after a transition period, from engaging in certain types of proprietary trading, as well as having investments in, sponsoring, and maintaining certain types of
relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds (through provisions commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule”); placed limitations on the interchange fees charged for debit card transactions; and established new minimum mortgage
underwriting standards for residential mortgages.

Financial Stability Oversight Council. Dodd-Frank also established the
10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with identifying and monitoring systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be
“systemically important.” In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve, could order the break-up of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States.

Banking Regulation and Supervision

Enhanced Prudential Requirements.Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to establish enhanced prudential standards for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as
PNC, as well as systemically important non-bank financial companies designated by the FSOC for Federal Reserve supervision. For such BHCs, these enhanced standards must be more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to BHCs with
less than $50 billion in assets, and must increase in stringency based on the Federal Reserve’s assessment of a BHC’s risk to the financial system. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and
refinement of these enhanced prudential standards.

The Federal Reserve in February 2014 issued final rules that establish the new enhanced
prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management for BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets. These new rules, which took effect for PNC on January 1, 2015, among other





4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




things, require that covered BHCs conduct liquidity stress tests at least monthly, maintain a contingency funding plan and sufficient highly liquid assets to meet net stresscash-flowneeds (as projected under the company’s liquidity stress tests) for 30 days, and establish certain oversight and governance responsibilities for the chief risk officer, the board of directors and the
risk committee of the board of directors of a covered company. In addition, the rules implement the provisions of Dodd-Frank that require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt to equity ratio on a BHC if the FSOC determines that the
company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk. The rules issued in February 2014 did not finalize the other enhanced prudential
standards that the Federal Reserve proposed in December 2011, including counterparty credit exposure limits and early remediation requirements, although the Federal Reserve has indicated that these matters remain under development. See the Recent
Market and Industry Developments portion of Item 7 MD&A and Item 1A Risk Factors for additional information.

Regulatory
Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning. PNC and PNC Bank are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. These requirements have changed, and will continue
to change significantly, as a result of the rules adopted by the U.S. banking agencies in July 2013 to implement the new international guidelines for determining regulatory capital established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel
Committee) known as “Basel III,” as well as to implement certain provisions of Dodd-Frank. The rules adopted in July 2013 generally have three fundamental parts.

The first part, referred to as the Basel III capital rule, among other things, narrows the definition of regulatory capital, requires banking organizations with $15 billion or more in assets
(including PNC) to phase-out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 regulatory capital, establishes a new common equity Tier 1 capital regulatory requirement for banking organizations, and revises the capital levels at which PNC and PNC Bank would
be subject to prompt corrective action. These rules also require that significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in the rule), as well as mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets, be deducted
from Tier 1 common regulatory capital to the extent such items individually exceed 10%, or in the aggregate exceed 15%, of the organization’s adjusted Basel III common equity Tier 1 regulatory capital. We previously referred to Basel III common
equity Tier 1 capital as Basel III Tier 1 common capital. The Basel III capital rule also significantly limits the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (including minority interests in the form of REIT preferred
securities) may be included in regulatory capital. In addition, for banking organizations, like PNC, which are subject to the advanced

approaches (described below), the rule includes other comprehensive income related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans as a component of common
equity Tier 1 capital. The Basel III capital rule became effective on January 1, 2014 for PNC and PNC Bank, although many provisions are phased-in over a period of years, with the rules generally fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019.

The second part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the advanced approaches and materially revises the framework for the
risk-weighting of assets under Basel II. The Basel II framework, which was adopted by the Basel Committee in 2004, seeks to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large,
internationally active banking organizations. The advanced approaches modifications adopted by the U.S. banking agencies became effective on January 1, 2014, and generally apply to banking organizations that have $250 billion or more in total
consolidated assets or that have $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. Prior to fully implementing the advanced approaches to calculate risk-weighted assets, PNC and PNC Bank must successfully complete a “parallel run”
qualification phase. PNC and PNC Bank entered this parallel run qualification phase on January 1, 2013. Although the minimum parallel run qualification period is four quarters, the parallel run period for PNC and PNC Bank, now in its third
year, is consistent with the experience of other U.S. banks that have all had multi-year parallel run periods.

The third major part of the
rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the standardized approach and materially revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel I. The standardized approach, for example, establishes a new framework for the
risk-weighting of securitization and non-U.S. sovereign exposures, and increases the risk-weights on certain types of assets including high-volatility commercial real estate and past due corporate and retail exposures. The standardized approach took
effect on January 1, 2015.

The risk-based capital and leverage rules that the federal banking regulators have adopted require the
capital-to-assets ratios of banking organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank, to meet certain minimum standards. The Basel III rule generally divides regulatory capital into three components: common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital
(which, together with common equity Tier 1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, qualifying minority interest and, for advanced approaches banking
organizations, accumulated other comprehensive income, less the deductions required to be made from common equity Tier 1 capital. Additional Tier 1 generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests,
less the deductions required to be made from additional Tier 1. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5




Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from total capital. For additional information regarding the differences between Basel III common equity Tier 1
capital and Basel I Tier 1 common capital, see the Capital section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report.

Under the regulatory capital rules, a banking organization’s risk-based capital ratios are calculated by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk-weighted
categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk), which are used to determine the amount of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets (RWAs). Under the standardized
approach, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are generally multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages set forth in the rules and that increase as the perceived credit risk of
the relevant asset increases. For certain types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure.

The Basel III capital rule requires that banking organizations maintain a minimum common equity
Tier 1 ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%. Moreover, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the rule

will require banking organizations to maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of at least 10.5% to avoid
limitations on capital distributions (including common stock dividends and share repurchases) and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. For banking organizations that are subject to the advanced approaches, these higher capital
conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% during periods of excessive credit growth, although this buffer is initially set at zero in the United
States.

In December 2014, the Federal Reserve requested comment on proposed rules that would apply an additional risk-based common equity
Tier 1 capital surcharge of between 1.0% and 4.5% (when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019) to firms identified as globally systemically important banks (GSIBs) using a scoring methodology that is based on five measures of global systemic
importance (size, interconnectedness, substitutability, complexity, and cross-jurisdictional activity). Based on the methodology proposed, PNC would not be subject to the proposed GSIB surcharge. In its December 2014 release, the Federal Reserve
indicated that there is a significant gap between the systemic scores of the eight U.S. BHCs that would be subject to the proposed GSIB surcharge and other BHCs (such as PNC).

The regulatory capital framework adopted by the federal banking regulators also requires that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets, referred to
as the leverage ratio. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%. As of December 31, 2014, the leverage ratios of PNC and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level.

Under the Basel III capital rule, banking organizations subject to the advanced approaches (such as PNC and PNC Bank) also will be subject to
a new minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio that becomes effective on January 1, 2018, with public regulatory reporting of the ratio beginning in 2015. Unlike the existing leverage ratio, the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio
takes into account certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. Consistent with the January 2014 Basel Committee revisions to the leverage ratio, the U.S. banking agencies in
September 2014 adopted final rules that, among other things, revise the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio and the supplementary leverage ratio disclosures that covered banking organizations are required to make beginning in 2015. In
April 2014, the U.S. banking agencies released final rules imposing a higher supplementary leverage ratio requirement on BHCs with total consolidated assets of more than $700 billion or assets under custody of more than $10 trillion, as well as the
insured depository institution subsidiaries of these BHCs.





6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Based on the asset and custody thresholds adopted in the final rules, these higher supplementary leverage requirements do not apply to PNC or PNC Bank.

The Federal Reserve and the international bodies responsible for establishing globally applicable regulatory standards for banks (the Financial Stability
Board (FSB) and the Basel Committee) have been working during the past few years on developing a minimum total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement that would facilitate the orderly resolution of GSIBs by requiring that such firms maintain a
minimum amount of regulatory capital and eligible debt that could be converted to equity upon failure. In November 2014, the FSB requested comment on a consultative document that would establish a global framework for the implementation of such a
TLAC requirement. As the proposal would apply only to firms that are identified as a GSIB by the FSB, it would not apply to PNC. The comment period on the FSB proposal ended on February 2, 2015.

additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to the Capital portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 20
Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7




non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2015 CCAR in March 2015.

As part of the CCAR and annual DFAST processes, both the Federal Reserve and PNC release certain revenue, loss and capital results from their stress testing exercises. For the 2015 exercises, the Federal
Reserve has announced that it intends to publish its supervisory revenue, loss and capital projections for participating BHCs under the supervisory adverse and severely adverse macro-economic scenarios using the common assumptions concerning capital
distributions established by the Federal Reserve in its DFAST regulations (DFAST capital action assumptions), as well as capital ratio information using the firm’s proposed base case capital actions. Within 15 days after the Federal Reserve
publishes its DFAST results, PNC also is required to publicly disclose its own estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the DFAST capital
action assumptions. Federal Reserve regulations also require that PNC and other large BHCs conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as of March 31 and three company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and
severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. For the 2015 mid-year stress test, PNC must publish its results in the period between July 5 and August 4, 2015.

In October 2014, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its capital plan and stress testing rules that will modify the schedule for the CCAR and DFAST
processes effective January 1, 2016. Beginning in 2016, covered BHCs are required to submit their annual capital plans and company-run stress test results to the Federal Reserve by April 5 of each year (rather than by January 5 as
currently required). In order to transition to this new schedule, the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to a capital plan submitted in January 2015 will cover capital actions for the five quarter period from the second quarter of 2015 through and
including the second quarter of 2016. Under the new schedule that becomes effective in 2016, the Federal Reserve will release its decisions on capital plans and release the results of its supervisory stress test by June 30, approximately three
months later than currently. The amendments also shift the schedule for the company-run mid-cycle DFAST exercise, with PNC’s submission date for this exercise shifting to October 5 (from July 5) and the release date for company
results moving to October (from July).

Basel III Liquidity Requirements. The Basel III framework adopted by the Basel Committee
also includes new short-term liquidity standards (the “Liquidity Coverage Ratio” or “LCR”) and long-term funding standards (the “Net Stable Funding Ratio” or “NSFR”).

In September 2014, the U.S. banking agencies released final rules to implement the LCR. The LCR rules are designed to

ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and high quality, unencumbered liquid assets (HQLA) to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress
scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions provided in the rules (net cash outflow). An institution’s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the haircuts and limitations in the rule, divided by
its net cash outflow, with the quotient expressed as a percentage.

Top-tier BHCs (like PNC) that are subject to the advanced approaches for
regulatory capital purposes, as well as any subsidiary depository institution of such a company that has $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets (such as PNC Bank), are subject to the full LCR (rather than the less stringent modified LCR)
under the final rules that took effect January 1, 2015. However, the minimum required LCR and the requirement to calculate the LCR on a daily basis will be phased-in over a period of years. The minimum LCR PNC and PNC Bank are required to
maintain in 2015 is 80% and increases to 90% in 2016 and then to 100% when fully phased-in in 2017. PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the LCR on a month-end basis until June 30, 2016, and then on a daily basis beginning on July 1,
2016. If an institution fails to meet the required minimum ratio, it must promptly notify its primary federal banking regulator and may be required to take remedial actions. An institution required to calculate its LCR on a month-end basis must
consult with its regulator to determine whether the institution must provide a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum LCR. An institution required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis must promptly provide its regulator with a plan for
achieving compliance with the minimum if its LCR is below the minimum for three consecutive business days.

For additional discussion of
regulatory liquidity requirements, please refer to the Capital portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section and the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report.

The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. The Basel
Committee, in October 2014, released the final NSFR framework. Under that framework, the NSFR would take effect as a minimum regulatory standard on January 1, 2018, although the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed rules to implement the
NSFR.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends
from PNC Bank. PNC Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of PNC. PNC Bank is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of
credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 20 Regulatory





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual
restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section and the Trust Preferred Securities and REIT Preferred Securities portion of the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements And Variable Interest Entities
section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 12 Capital Securities of a Subsidiary Trust and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Federal Reserve rules provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to
support such banks if necessary. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless
its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial
condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2015 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in 2015 to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share
repurchase programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act

financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve.

The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary broker-dealers, investment advisers, insurance companies and
banks, as well as investment companies advised by investment adviser subsidiaries of the financial holding company, also being subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal regulatory
responsibility for companies in their lines of business.

In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded
activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also
generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve. Certain activities,
however, are impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including certain insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities, real estate investment or development, and merchant banking. In order to have a
financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be and remain “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial
activity, or acquire a company engaged in a new financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the CRA.

Volcker Rule.In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, SEC and CFTC issued final rules to implement the “Volcker Rule”
provisions of Dodd-Frank. The rules prohibit banks and their affiliates (collectively, banking entities) from trading as principal on a short-term basis in securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments, but also includes several
important exclusions and exemptions from this prohibition. These exclusions and exemptions, for example, permit banking entities, subject to a variety of conditions and restrictions, to trade as principal for market making, risk-mitigating hedging,
and securities underwriting purposes, and to trade in U.S. government and municipal securities. The rules also prohibit banking entities from investing in, sponsoring, and having certain relationships with private funds (such as, for example,
private equity or hedge funds) that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the exemptions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act (covered funds). Again there are exemptions from these
restrictions which themselves are subject to a variety of conditions. Moreover, the rules prohibit banking entities from engaging in permitted trading





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9




or covered fund activities if the activity would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties, result in a
material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy, or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States. Banking entities, like PNC, that
have $50 billion or more in total assets are required to establish and maintain an enhanced compliance program designed to ensure that the entity complies with the requirements of the final rule. Based on the level of PNC’s trading assets and
liabilities, PNC is not subject to the metrics reporting requirements of the final rules.

The Volcker rule’s prohibitions and
restrictions generally become effective on July 21, 2015. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve granted an extension of the conformance period to give all banking entities until July 21, 2016 to conform their investments in, and
relationships with, covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 (legacy covered funds). Moreover, the Federal Reserve indicated its intent to grant an additional one-year extension of the conformance period for legacy covered
funds, which would give banking entities until July 21, 2017 to conform their ownership interests in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to provide up to an additional 5-year conformance
period for investments held as of May 1, 2010 in qualifying illiquid funds. For additional information concerning the potential impact of the Volcker Rule on PNC’s operations, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective
action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company.

Laws and regulations limit the scope of our
permitted activities and investments. National banks (such as PNC Bank) and their operating subsidiaries generally may engage only in activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking, although a
financial subsidiary may engage in a broader range of activities as described above.

Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower,
lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or BHC to engage in new
activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities. The OCC, moreover, has been applying certain heightened risk management and governance expectations in its supervision of
large national banks, including PNC Bank. In September 2014, the OCC incorporated these expectations into final enforceable guidelines established under section 39 of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act). The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework at large insured national banks, including PNC
Bank. The guidelines describe the appropriate risk management roles and responsibilities of front line units, independent risk management, internal audit, and the board of directors, and provide that a bank should have a comprehensive written
statement that articulates its risk appetite and serves as a basis for the framework (a risk appetite statement). PNC Bank is required to be in compliance with the guidelines by May 10, 2015. If the OCC determines that a national bank is not in
compliance with these or other guidelines established under section 39 of the FDI Act, the OCC may require the bank to submit a corrective action plan and may initiate enforcement action against the bank if an acceptable plan is not submitted or the
bank fails to comply with an approved plan.

At December 31, 2014, PNC Bank had an “Outstanding” rating with respect to CRA.





10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Because of PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject to the supervision and
regulation of the Federal Reserve.

FDIC Insurance and Related Matters. PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower
capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank’s holdings of assets
or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC. For example, the amount of brokered deposits (as defined under the FDI Act) held by an insured depository institution can adversely affect the institution’s deposit insurance assessments. A
negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. The methodology for
the deposit insurance base calculation currently uses average assets less average tangible equity.

On January 5, 2015, the FDIC issued
guidance in the form of frequently asked questions regarding the definition of brokered deposits under the FDI Act, as well as the acceptance and regulatory reporting of brokered deposits by insured depository institutions. Federal banking laws and
regulations apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For example, only a “well capitalized” insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without
prior regulatory approval and brokered deposits are generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR.

Resolution Planning. Dodd-Frank requires BHCs that have $50 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that
includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on
a covered BHC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company’s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions
were imposed. The FDIC also has adopted a rule that requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, to periodically submit a resolution plan to the FDIC that includes, among other things,

an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act.
Depending on how the agencies conduct their review of the resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs.
PNC and PNC Bank submitted their 2014 resolution plans under these rules in December 2014.

CFPB Regulation and Supervision

In January 2014, new rules issued by the CFPB for mortgage origination and mortgage servicing became effective. The rules
require lenders to conduct a reasonable and good faith determination at or before consummation of a residential mortgage loan that the borrower will have a reasonable ability to repay the loan. The regulations also define criteria for making
Qualified Mortgages which entitle the lender and any assignee to either a conclusive or rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability to repay rule. The new mortgage servicing rules include new standards for notices to consumers, loss
mitigation procedures, and consumer requests for information. Both the origination and servicing rules create new private rights of action for consumers in the event of certain violations. In August 2015, broad new regulations take effect concerning
the disclosures we provide to prospective residential mortgage customers. These regulations, among other things, require the provision of new disclosures near the time a prospective borrower submits an application and three days prior to closing of
a mortgage loan. In addition to the





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K11




exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB is continuing its ongoing examination and supervisory activities with respect to a number of consumer businesses and products.

Securities and Derivatives Regulation

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and may provide investment advisory services to clients, other PNC
affiliates or related entities, including registered investment companies. Certain of these advisers are registered as investment advisers to private equity funds under rules adopted under Dodd-Frank.

Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related regulations. The Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization (SRO) for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related
regulations. An investment adviser to a registered investment company is also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and related regulations. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to
additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions.

Over the past several years, the SEC and other regulatory agencies have increased
their focus on the asset management, mutual fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are considering additional reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of
regulation of the mutual fund and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries. Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers,
investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation
on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing and ability to
expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such
approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

Title VII of Dodd-Frank imposes new comprehensive and significant regulations on the activities of financial institutions

that are active in the U.S. over-the-counter derivatives and foreign exchange markets. Title VII was enacted to (i) address systemic risk issues, (ii) bring greater transparency to the
derivatives markets, (iii) provide enhanced disclosures and protection to customers, and (iv) promote market integrity. Among other things, Title VII: (i) requires the registration of both “swap dealers” and “major swap
participants” with one or both of the CFTC (in the case of non security-based swaps) and the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps); (ii) requires that most standardized swaps be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house and
traded on a centralized exchange or swap execution facility; (iii) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to capital and margin requirements in excess of historical practice; (iv) subjects swap dealers and major swap
participants to comprehensive new recordkeeping and real-time public reporting requirements; (v) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to new business conduct requirements, including the provision of daily marks to counterparties
and disclosing to counterparties (pre-execution) the material risks, material incentives, and any conflicts of interest associated with their swap; and (vi) imposes special duties on swap dealers and major swap participants when transacting a
swap with a “special entity” (e.g., governmental agency (federal, state or local) or political subdivision thereof, pension plan or endowment).

Based on the definition of a “swap dealer” under Title VII, PNC Bank registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer on January 31, 2013. As a result, PNC Bank is subject to the regulations and
requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC will have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank’s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap activities,
PNC Bank has not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The regulations and requirements applicable to swap dealers will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC Bank and will introduce additional
legal risks (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action).

As
originally enacted, the so-called “swap push-out” provisions of Section 716 of Dodd-Frank required an insured depository institution that is a “swaps entity” (defined to include a registered swap dealer like PNC Bank) to cease
engaging in certain types of swaps by July 16, 2013, although the institution’s appropriate Federal banking agency could extend this transition period. In 2013, PNC Bank received such an extension of the transition period to July 16, 2015 from
its appropriate Federal banking agency. In December 2014, the U.S. Congress significantly narrowed the “push-out” restrictions of Section 716. These amendments generally allow insured depository institutions that are a swaps entity to
engage in all types of swaps other than structured finance swaps (defined as a swap that references either an asset-backed security or a group or index primarily comprised of





12The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




asset-backed securities). However, an insured depository institution is permitted to engage in structured finance swaps for hedging or other risk mitigating purposes. An insured depository
institution that fails to comply with the restrictions in Section 716 could face restrictions on the institution’s access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window or FDIC deposit insurance or guarantees.

In addition, an investment adviser to private funds or to registered investment companies may be required to register with the CFTC as a commodity pool
operator. Registration could impose significant new regulatory compliance burdens. Presently, we expect our subsidiaries that serve as investment advisers to such entities to be eligible for exemptions from registration as a commodity pool operator.

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA
regulation, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, we refer you to the
discussion under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Competition

We are subject to
intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions and non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory
supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies,
leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are
extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for
deposits and investments.

PNC Bank competes for deposits with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete
with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.

Employees

Employees totaled 53,587 at December 31, 2014. This total includes
49,745 full-time and 3,842 part-time employees, of which 22,216 full-time and 3,274 part-time employees were employed by our Retail Banking business.

SEC Reports and Corporate Governance Information

We are subject to the
informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is
001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and
information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the
New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We also make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K13




SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting
Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of
exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or
executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and
Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to PNC’s Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at
One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.

Our common
stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

Internet Information

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at
www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under “About Us – Investor Relations,” such as Investor Events, SEC Filings, Financial Information (including Quarterly Earnings, Annual Reports, Proxy
Statements and Regulatory Disclosures), Financial Press Releases, Message from the Chairman and Corporate Governance. Under “Investor Relations,” we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to
investors. We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating public information from time to time to investors. We generally post the following on our corporate website shortly before or promptly following its

first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings releases), various SEC filings, including SEC Reports, presentation materials associated with earnings and other
investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events several days
prior to the call or event. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and adjusted information and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we refer
to adjusted information and results. Where applicable, we provide GAAP reconciliations for such additional information in materials for that event or in materials for other prior investor presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports.
When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information.

PNC is also required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios in March 2015
under a supervisory hypothetical severely adverse economic scenario and in September 2015 under a PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenario, as well as information concerning its capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the
stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The timing of these disclosures will change beginning in 2016, as discussed in Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning in the Supervision and
Regulation section above. PNC also is required to make certain market risk-related public disclosures and certain additional regulatory capital-related disclosures under the regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Under
these regulations, PNC may be able to satisfy at least a portion of these requirements through postings on its website, and PNC has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also post on our website communications to our shareholders, such as the letter to shareholders that accompanies the Form 10-K mailed to shareholders, and may not file them as exhibits to filings with the
SEC when not expressly required.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC,
we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.





14The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




