ITEM1 –BUSINESS

BUSINESSOVERVIEWHeadquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial
services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally and others in our
primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Missouri, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. We also provide certain products and services
internationally. At December 31, 2010, our consolidated total assets, deposits and total shareholders’ equity were $264.3 billion, $183.4 billion and $30.2 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have
diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

SALEOFPNC GLOBALINVESTMENTSERVICING

On July 1, 2010, we sold PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS), a leading provider of processing, technology and business intelligence services
to asset managers, broker-dealers and financial advisors worldwide, for $2.3 billion in cash pursuant to a definitive agreement entered into on February 2, 2010. The pretax gain recorded in the third quarter of 2010 related to this sale was
$639 million, or $328 million after taxes.

Results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related after-tax gain on sale in
the third quarter of 2010 are presented as income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, on our Consolidated Income Statement for the periods presented in this Report. Once we entered into the sales agreement, GIS was no longer a
reportable business segment. Further information regarding the GIS sale is included in Note 2 Divestiture in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.

ACQUISITIONOFNATIONALCITYCORPORATION

On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City Corporation (National City) for approximately $6.1 billion. The total consideration included approximately $5.6 billion of PNC common stock, $150
million of preferred stock, and cash of $379 million paid to warrant holders by National City. Following the closing, PNC received $7.6 billion from the United States Department of the Treasury (US Treasury) under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) in exchange for the issuance of preferred stock and a common stock warrant (the TARP Preferred Stock and TARP









Warrant). These proceeds were used to enhance National City Bank’s regulatory capital position to well-capitalized in order to continue serving the credit and deposit needs of existing and
new customers. On a consolidated basis, these proceeds resulted in further improvement to our capital and liquidity positions. See Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Preferred Stock and Sale By US Treasury of TARP Warrant below for additional
information.

In connection with obtaining regulatory approvals for the acquisition, PNC agreed to divest 61 of National City Bank’s
branches in Western Pennsylvania. This divestiture, which included $4.1 billion of deposits and $.8 billion of loans, was completed during the third quarter of 2009.

National City, based in Cleveland, Ohio, was one of the nation’s largest financial services companies. At December 31, 2008, prior to our acquisition, National City had total assets of
approximately $153 billion and total deposits of approximately $101 billion. National City Corporation was merged into PNC on the acquisition date, December 31, 2008. National City Bank was merged into PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank,
N.A.) on November 6, 2009.

Our consolidated financial statements for 2009 and 2010 reflect the impact of National City.

REPURCHASEOFOUTSTANDINGTARP PREFERREDSTOCKANDSALEBYUS TREASURYOFTARPWARRANT

See Note 18
Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report regarding our December 31, 2008 issuance of $7.6 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series N (Series N Preferred Stock or TARP
Preferred Stock), related issuance discount, and issuance of the related common stock warrant to the US Treasury (the TARP Warrant) under the US Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program.

As approved by the Federal Reserve Board, US Treasury and our other banking regulators, on February 10, 2010, we redeemed all 75,792 shares of our
Series N Preferred Stock held by the US Treasury. We used the net proceeds from the common stock offering described in Note 18, senior notes offerings and other funds to redeem the Series N Preferred Stock. We did not exercise our right to seek to
repurchase the related warrant at the time we redeemed the Series N Preferred Stock.

In connection with the redemption of the Series N
Preferred Stock, we accelerated the accretion of the remaining issuance discount on the Series N Preferred Stock and recorded a corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $250 million during the first quarter of 2010. This resulted in a
one-time, noncash reduction in net income attributable to common shareholders and related basic and diluted earnings per share.

Dividends of $89 million were paid on February 10, 2010 when the Series N Preferred Stock was
redeemed. PNC paid total dividends of $421 million to the US Treasury while the Series N preferred shares were outstanding.

The warrant
issued to the US Treasury in connection with the Series N Preferred Stock described above would have enabled the US Treasury to purchase up to approximately 16.9 million shares of PNC common stock at an exercise price of $67.33 per share. After
exchanging its TARP Warrant for 16,885,192 warrants, each to purchase one share of PNC common stock, the US Treasury sold the warrants in a secondary public offering. The sale closed on May 5, 2010. These warrants expire December 31, 2018.

REVIEWOFBUSINESSSEGMENTSIn addition to the following
information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate information under the captions Business Segment Highlights, Product Revenue, and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include financial and
other information by business in Note 25 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2010 have been reclassified to reflect current
methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the same basis. Business segment information for 2008 does not include the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management, and cash management services to consumer and small
business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and the internet. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Missouri, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain
customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets.
A key element of our strategy is to expand the use of alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our
employees and customers, which is a strong indicator for customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate &
Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and









not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include
cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan
syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial
loan servicing, real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain
products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier
provider of financial services in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to its customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the
comprehensive resources of PNC to help each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and
prudent risk and expense management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra
high net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for
individuals and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments
located primarily in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held wealth and
institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality advice and investment management to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products
and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service its clients, grow its business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and
also originates loans through majority and minority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by

one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third party standards, and sold, servicing retained, to secondary mortgage market
conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA)
program, as described in more detail in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to
servicing mortgage loans—primarily those in first lien position—for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loans originated through majority or minority owned affiliates are sold to others.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships, providing quality investment
loans, and delivering acceptable returns under a moderate risk profile. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion, and cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint for
cross-selling opportunities.

BlackRockis the largest publicly traded investment management firm in the
world. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative and cash management separate accounts and funds, including iShares®, the global product leader in exchange traded funds. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management,
financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services globally to a broad base of clients.

We hold an equity investment in
BlackRock. Our investment in BlackRock is a key component of our diversified revenue strategy. The ability of BlackRock to grow assets under management is the key driver of increases in its revenue, earnings and, ultimately, shareholder value.
BlackRock’s strategies for growth in assets under management include a focus on achieving client investment performance objectives in a manner consistent with their risk preferences and delivering excellent client service. The business
dedicates significant resources to attracting and retaining talented professionals and to the ongoing enhancement of its investment technology and operating capabilities to deliver on this strategy.

Distressed Assets Portfolioincludes commercial residential development loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans,
retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. These loans require special servicing and management oversight given current market conditions. We obtained the majority of these loans through acquisitions of other
companies.









The business activities of this segment are focused on maximizing the value of the assets while mitigating
risk. Business intent drives the inclusion of assets in this business segment. Not all impaired loans are included in this business segment, nor are all of the loans included in this business segment considered impaired. The fair value marks taken
upon our acquisition of National City, the team we have in place and targeted asset resolution strategies help us to manage these assets. Additionally, our capital and liquidity positions provide us flexibility in a challenging environment to
optimize returns on this portfolio for our shareholders.

SUBSIDIARIESOur corporate legal structure at
December 31, 2010 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 120 active non-bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.), headquartered in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.

STATISTICALDISCLOSUREBYBANKHOLDINGCOMPANIESThe following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:



Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis189Analysis Of Year-To-Year ChangesIn Net Interest Income188Book Values Of Securities37-40 and 127-132Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities132Loan Types34-36, 117-118 and 190Selected Loan Maturities AndInterest Sensitivity192Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets69-75, 106-107,119 and 190Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale41 and 69-76Summary Of Loan Loss Experience75-76, 118-126 and 191Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses75-76 and 191Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits189Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More146 and 192Selected Consolidated Financial Data23-24Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2010, 2009 and 2008
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.

SUPERVISIONANDREGULATION

OVERVIEW

PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. You should also
read Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, included here by reference, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our
permissible activities and investments and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends
from bank subsidiaries and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which results in examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, but also capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the
imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the agencies determine, among other
things, that such operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the
conduct, growth and profitability of our operations.

We are also subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by
virtue of our status as a public company and due to the nature of some of our businesses.

As a regulated financial services firm, our
relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and powers to
approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.









We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically
on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives would be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act),
the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (Credit CARD Act), the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), as
well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, including the new rules set forth in Regulation E related to overdraft charges.

Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reforms the regulation of financial institutions, products and
services. Dodd-Frank requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous rules and regulations. Because the federal agencies are granted broad discretion in drafting these rules and regulations, many of the details and much of the
impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, Dodd- Frank provides for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; requires that deposit
insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository institution’s assets rather than its insured deposits and raises the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured
deposits) to 1.35%; places restrictions on a financial institution’s derivatives activities; limits proprietary trading and owning or sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds; places limitations on the interchange fees we can charge for
debit card transactions; and establishes new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages.

Dodd-Frank also establishes,
as an independent agency that is organized as a bureau within the Federal Reserve, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB). Starting July 21, 2011, the CFPB will have the authority to prescribe rules governing the provision of consumer
financial products and services, and it is expected that the CFPB will issue new regulations, and amend existing regulations, regarding consumer protection practices. Also on that date, the authority of the OCC to examine PNC Bank, N.A. for
compliance with consumer protection laws, and to enforce such laws, will transfer to CFPB.

Additionally, new provisions concerning the
applicability of state consumer protection laws will become effective on July 21, 2011. Questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws may be preempted after this date. We expect to experience an increase in regulation
of our retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, revenue impacts, and costs.

Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are
likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject that follows is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially
material change. See also the additional information included in Item 1A of this Report under the risk factor discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it, on
the regulatory environment for the financial services industry.

On November 17, 2010, the Federal Reserve announced that, together with
the primary federal bank regulators, it would undertake a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of the 19 bank holding companies (BHCs) that participate in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP). This capital adequacy assessment
will be based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each SCAP BHC to the Federal Reserve and its primary federal bank regulator. Pursuant to this review, PNC filed its capital plan with the Federal Reserve on January 7, 2011.

The Federal Reserve will evaluate PNC’s capital plan based on PNC’s risk profile and the strength of PNC’s internal capital
assessment process under the regulatory capital standards currently applicable and in accordance with PNC’s plans to address proposed revisions to the regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel
III) and as set forth in relevant provisions of Dodd-Frank. The Federal Reserve’s evaluation will take into consideration any capital distribution plans, such as plans to increase common stock dividends or to reinstate or increase common stock
repurchase programs. In accordance with the Federal Reserve announcement of the SCAP evaluation, PNC expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the end of the first quarter 2011. Further, while the Basel III capital framework has yet
to be finalized by the Federal banking agencies, and is therefore subject to further change, management believes that, based on its current interpretation of the new framework, PNC will be Basel III compliant, on a fully phased-in basis, during the
first half of 2012.

At least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there is an increased focus on fair lending and
other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related regulatory reforms include measures aimed at reducing mortgage foreclosures.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years have been compliance with anti-money laundering rules and regulations and the protection of
confidential customer information.

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFPB,
the SEC, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory









organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our
businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion
is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding
companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers and the financial markets in general.

BANKREGULATION

As a bank holding company and
a financial holding company, we are subject to supervision and regular inspection by the Federal Reserve. PNC Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by applicable federal banking agencies, principally the OCC. As
a result of Dodd-Frank, subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. will be subject to state law and regulation to the same extent as if they were not subsidiaries of a national bank, such as PNC Bank, N.A. Additionally, based on Dodd-Frank, state authorities
may assert that certain state consumer financial laws that provide different requirements or limitations than Federal law may apply to national banks, including PNC Bank, N.A. Such state laws may be preempted if they meet certain standards set forth
in Dodd-Frank.

Dodd-Frank established the 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with
identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically important” and could, in extraordinary cases, break up financial firms that are deemed to
be “too big to fail.” It also requires the Federal Reserve Board to establish prudential standards for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion that are more stringent than the standards
and requirements applicable to bank holding companies with assets below this threshold and that increase in stringency for bank holding companies that present heightened risk to the financial system, such as the extent of leverage and off-balance
sheet exposures. These heightened prudential standards may include risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure requirements, and concentration
limits. The FSOC also makes recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board concerning the establishment and refinement of these prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements. These heightened standards will apply to PNC since we have
more than $50 billion in assets. The Federal Reserve Board has

not yet proposed or issued these standards, so we cannot predict what the standards will be at this time.

Because of PNC’s voting ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal
restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank, N.A. is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 21
Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual
restrictions is also available in “Liquidity Risk Management” in the Risk Management section and “PNC Capital Trust E Trust Preferred Securities” and “Acquired Entity Trust Preferred Securities” in the Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements and VIEs section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Under Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit
resources to support such bank. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash
dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and
overall financial condition. Further, in the November 17, 2010 announcement of its supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of the bank holding companies that participated in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, discussed above,
the Federal Reserve stated that it expects plans submitted in 2011 will reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share repurchase programs, and that requests that imply dividend payout ratios above 30% of net income will receive
particularly close scrutiny. The Federal Reserve stated that it further expects that plans will allow for significant accretion of capital after taking into consideration all proposed capital actions.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The GLB Act permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a “financial holding
company” and thereby to affiliate with financial companies engaging in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance
companies and companies engaged in other









activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are determined by the
Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000.

The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary broker-dealers, investment managers, investment companies,
insurance companies and banks, also subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business.

As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities or
acquire non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. In addition, our non-bank subsidiaries (and any financial subsidiaries of subsidiary banks) are now permitted to engage in certain activities that were not
permitted for banks and bank holding companies prior to enactment of the GLB Act, and to engage on less restrictive terms in certain activities that were previously permitted. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial
holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities.

In addition, the GLB Act permits
national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance
agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. Certain activities, however, are
impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including insurance under-writing, insurance investments, real estate investment or development, and merchant banking.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its
holding company. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or
“critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted assets, the greater the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to
appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only a “well capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior
regulatory approval and an “adequately

capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 2010, PNC Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for
classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to “Funding and Capital Sources” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to
Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Laws and regulations limit the
scope of our permitted activities and investments. In addition to the activities that would be permitted to be conducted by a financial subsidiary, national banks (such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries may engage in any activities
that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking.

Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or
lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company
to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities.

The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or thrift, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of
more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or thrift, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or thrift holding company. The BHC Act enumerates the factors the Federal Reserve Board must consider when reviewing the merger
of bank holding companies or the acquisition of banks. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved
in the transaction; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. In cases involving interstate bank
acquisitions, the Board also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. Our ability to grow through acquisitions could be limited by these approval requirements.

At December 31, 2010, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated “Outstanding” with respect to CRA.

FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of
FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles
take into account weaknesses that are









found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the
costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. Also, the deposit insurance provisions of Dodd-Frank, as implemented by the FDIC, could increase the deposit insurance
premiums for a bank such as PNC Bank, N.A.

SECURITIESANDRELATEDREGULATION

The SEC is the functional regulator of our registered broker-dealer and investment advisor
subsidiaries. The registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), among others.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and provide services to clients, other PNC affiliates and related entities, including registered investment companies. Under
rules to be adopted under Dodd-Frank, we expect to be required to register additional subsidiaries as investment advisors to private equity funds. Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and the regulations thereunder. Investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. An investment advisor to registered investment companies is
also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.

Our broker-dealer and
investment advisory subsidiaries also may be subject to state securities laws and regulations. Over the past several years, the SEC and other governmental agencies have been focused on the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries.
Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are continuing additional reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries and impose
additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries.

Under provisions of the federal securities
laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result
in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public
company in its timing and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations
in acting upon

applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

Our securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including BlackRock, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in
the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC and FINRA
regulation, as described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to the supervision and regulation of the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock, we refer you to the discussion under
the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

In addition, Dodd-Frank subjects virtually all derivative transactions (swaps) to regulation by either the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
(in the case of non security-based swaps) or the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps). This section of Dodd-Frank was enacted to reduce systemic risk, increase transparency, and promote market integrity within the financial system by, among
other things: (i) providing for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers (SDs) and major swap participants (MSPs); (ii) imposing mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements on all standardized swaps, with
certain limited exemptions; (iii) creating robust recordkeeping and real-time public data reporting regimes with respect to swaps; (iv) imposing capital and margin requirements on SDs and MSPs; (v) imposing business conduct
requirements on SDs and MSPs in their dealings with counterparties; and (vi) enhancing the CFTC’s and SEC’s rulemaking and enforcement authorities with respect to SDs and MSPs. Under the rules anticipated under Dodd-Frank, we expect
to register with the CFTC as an SD and accordingly be subject to all of the new regulations and requirements imposed on an SD.

COMPETITION

We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions and from non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar
products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with
traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including CLO managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing,
structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a
result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars.









PNC Bank, N.A. competes for deposits with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and private equity activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.

EMPLOYEESEmployees totaled 50,769 at December 31, 2010. This total includes 44,817 full-time and 5,952
part-time employees.

SEC REPORTS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this
information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also
maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy
statements and other information

about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We also make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on or through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com
and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at
www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, or by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where
applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its
committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In
addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and
the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by
sending their requests to George P. Long, III, Chief Governance Counsel and Corporate Secretary, at corporate headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to
shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

INTERNET INFORMATION

The PNC Financial
Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under “About PNC – Investor
Relations,” such as “Investor Events, Quarterly Earnings, SEC Filings, Financial Information, Financial Press Releases and Message from the Chairman. Under “Investor Relations,” we will from time to time post information that we









believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including
earnings releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to
expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information
described in the sections above in the Investor Relations section of our website.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such
as our web address and web addresses of the SEC and of BlackRock, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part
hereof.

