ITEM1 –BUSINESS

BUSINESSOVERVIEW

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and
institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally, as well as other products and services in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey,
Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, North Carolina, Florida, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Alabama, Virginia, Missouri, Georgia, Wisconsin and South Carolina. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At
December 31, 2013, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders’ equity were $320.3 billion, $220.9 billion and $42.4 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have
diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

2012 RBC BANK(USA) ACQUISITION

On March 2, 2012, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding common stock of RBC Bank (USA), the U.S. retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada. As part of the acquisition, PNC also
purchased a credit card portfolio from RBC Bank (Georgia), National Association. PNC paid $3.6 billion in cash as the consideration for the acquisition of both RBC Bank (USA) and the credit card portfolio. The transaction added approximately $18.1
billion in deposits, $14.5 billion of loans and $1.1 billion of goodwill and intangible assets to PNC’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of business activity associated with the RBC Bank (USA)
acquisition subsequent to March 2, 2012. Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in Item 8 of our 2012 Form 10-K includes additional details related to the RBC Bank (USA) transactions.

RBC Bank (USA), based in Raleigh, North Carolina, operated more than 400 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and South
Carolina. The primary reasons for

the acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) were to enhance shareholder value, to improve PNC’s competitive position in the financial services industry, and to further expand PNC’s existing
branch network in the states where it already operated as well as expanding into new markets.

2012 SALEOFSMARTSTREET

Effective October 26, 2012, PNC divested certain deposits and assets of the Smartstreet business unit,
which was acquired by PNC as part of the RBC Bank (USA) acquisition, to Union Bank, N.A. Smartstreet is a nationwide business focused on homeowner or community association managers and had approximately $1 billion of assets and deposits as of
September 30, 2012. The gain on sale was immaterial and we reduced goodwill and core deposit intangibles by $46 million and $13 million, respectively.

REVIEWOFBUSINESSSEGMENTS

In
addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the captions Business Segment Highlights and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the
financial and other information by business in Note 26 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2013 have been reclassified to reflect current
methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the same basis.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment management and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, ATMs, call
centers, online banking and mobile channels. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, North Carolina, Florida, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Alabama, Virginia,
Missouri, Georgia, Wisconsin and South Carolina.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and
transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K1




share of our customers’ financial assets, such as savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets, including retirement assets. A strategic priority for PNC is to redefine the
retail banking business in response to changing customer preferences. A key element of this strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we
have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized and large corporations, government and
not-for-profit entities. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer
services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, securities, loan syndications and mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market
companies. We also provide commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions, for the commercial real estate finance industry. Products and services are generally provided within our primary geographic markets, with
certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a
premier provider of financial services in each of the markets we serve. The value proposition to our customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the
comprehensive resources of PNC to help each client succeed. Our primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and prudent risk and expense management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and institutional asset
management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions, and trust management and administration for individuals and their families.
Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody administration and retirement administration services. Institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments, primarily
located in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual and institutional
asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver

high quality banking advice and trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and
services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service our clients, grow the business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates first lien residential mortgage loans, on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and originates
loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and sold, servicing
retained, to secondary mortgage conduits of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all
functions related to servicing mortgage loans, primarily those in first lien position, for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loan applications are brokered by majority owned affiliates to others.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships, providing quality investment
loans and delivering acceptable returns consistent with our desired risk appetite. A strategic priority for PNC is to build a stronger residential mortgage business offering seamless delivery to customers while improving efficiencies. Our national
distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion and cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.

BlackRockis a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail
clients worldwide. BlackRock provides diversified investment management services to institutional clients, intermediary investors and individual investors through various investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily consist of the
management of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products. BlackRock offers its investment products in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,iShares®exchange-traded funds (ETFs), collective investment trusts and
separate accounts. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base ofclients. Financial markets advisory services include valuationservices relating to illiquid securities, dispositions andworkout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution.





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




We hold an equity investment in BlackRock, which is a key component of our diversified revenue strategy.
BlackRock is a publicly traded company, and additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Non-Strategic Assets Portfolioincludes a consumer portfolio of mainly residential mortgage and brokered home equity loans and lines of credit, and a small commercial loan and lease
portfolio. We obtained a significant portion of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies.

SUBSIDIARIES

Our
corporate legal structure at December 31, 2013 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 130 active non-bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.),
headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.

STATISTICALDISCLOSUREBYBANKHOLDINGCOMPANIES

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:



Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis223-224Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income225Book Values Of Securities43-44and 149-154Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities153-154Loan Types38-42, 130-131and 226Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity229Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets73-82,117-120,131-144and 227Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale44 and74-84Summary Of Loan Loss Experience82-84,131-148 and 228Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses82-84 and 228Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits223-224Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More176 and 229Selected Consolidated Financial Data28-29Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2013, 2012, and 2011
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.

EUROPEANEXPOSURE

For information regarding our exposure to European entities at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, see the European Exposure section
included in Item 7 of this Report.

SUPERVISIONANDREGULATION

PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 22 Regulatory
Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose
conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among
other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and
nonmonetary sanctions.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies,
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency,
but also capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of
significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action against a regulated entity
where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations fail to comply with applicable law or regulations or are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and
supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is responsible for examining PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws,
including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC
Bank, N.A. and its affiliates.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3




The results of the CFPB’s examinations, which are not publicly available, also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement
actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of monetary penalties.

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of
our status as a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted
by BlackRock, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

As a
regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators
have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, or reconfigure existing
operations.

We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other
financial services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed
description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change. See also the additional information included in Item 1A of
this Report under the risk factors discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the regulatory environment for PNC and the financial services industry.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years are compliance with the Bank Secrecy
Act and anti-money laundering laws, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, and the protection of confidential customer information. In addition, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other consumer protection
issues.

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities
and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be
affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and

financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be
complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and supervisory policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect
our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets in general.

Dodd-Frank Act

Dodd-Frank also established the 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged
with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically important.” In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the Federal
Reserve, could order thebreak-upof financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to establish enhanced
prudential standards for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as PNC, as well as systemically





4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




BANKINGREGULATIONANDSUPERVISION

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning. PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. are subject to the regulatory capital
requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. These requirements are currently the subject of significant changes as a result of the rules adopted by the U.S. banking agencies in July 2013 to implement the new
international guidelines for determining regulatory capital established by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (Basel Committee) known as “Basel III,” as well as to implement certain provisions of Dodd-Frank. The rules adopted in July
2013 generally have three fundamental parts.

The first part, referred to as the Basel III capital rule, among other things, narrows the
definition of regulatory capital, requires banking organizations with $15 billion or more in assets (including PNC) to phase-out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 regulatory capital, establishes a new Tier 1

common capital requirement for banking organizations, and revises the capital levels at which PNC and the PNC Bank, N.A. would be subject to prompt corrective action. These rules also require
that significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in the rule), as well as mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets, be deducted from Tier 1 common regulatory capital to the extent such items
individually exceed 10%, or in the aggregate exceed 15%, of the organization’s adjusted Tier 1 common capital. The Basel III capital rule also significantly limits the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (including
minority interests in the form of REIT preferred securities) may be included in regulatory capital. In addition, for banking organizations, like PNC, that are subject to the advanced approaches (described below), the rule includes other
comprehensive income related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans as a component of Tier 1 common capital. The Basel III capital rule became effective on January 1, 2014, for PNC and PNC Bank,
N.A., although many provisions are phased-in over a period of years, with the rules generally fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019.

The
second part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the advanced approaches and materially revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel II. The Basel II framework, which was adopted by the Basel Committee in
2004, seeks to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. The advanced approaches modifications adopted by the U.S. banking
agencies became effective on January 1, 2014, and generally apply to banking organizations that have $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or that have $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. Prior to fully
implementing the advanced approaches to calculate risk-weighted assets, PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. must successfully complete a “parallel run” qualification phase. PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. entered this parallel run qualification phase on
January 1, 2013. This phase must last at least four consecutive quarters, although, consistent with the experience of other U.S. banks, we currently anticipate a multi-year parallel run period.

The third major part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the standardized approach and materially revises the framework for the
risk-weighting of assets under Basel I. The standardized approach, for example, establishes a new framework for the risk-weighting of securitization and non-U.S. sovereign exposures, and increases the risk-weights on certain types of assets
including high-volatility commercial real estate and past due corporate and retail exposures. The standardized approach will become effective on January 1, 2015.

The risk-based capital and leverage rules that the federal banking regulators have adopted require the capital-to-assets ratios of banking organizations, including PNC and PNC





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5




Bank, N.A., to meet certain minimum standards. The Basel III rule generally divides capital into three components: Tier 1 common capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together, with Tier 1
common capital comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 common is generally common stock, retained earnings, qualifying minority interest and, for advanced approaches banking organizations, accumulated other comprehensive income, less
the deductions required to be made from Tier 1 common equity. Additional Tier 1 generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less the deductions required to be made from additional Tier 1. Tier
2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from total capital. For additional information regarding the differences between Basel III and Basel I
Tier 1 common capital, see the Funding and Capital Sources section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report.

Under the capital rules, a banking organization’s risk-based capital ratios are calculated by allocating assets and specifiedoff-balancesheet financial
instruments into risk-weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk), which are used to determine the amount of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets
(RWAs). Under the Basel I framework and the standardized approach, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages that are set forth in the
rules that increase as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset increases.

The Basel I regulatory capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank,
N.A. as of December 31, 2013 exceeded the applicable minimum levels in effect for 2013. For additional information regarding the Basel I capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. as of December 31, 2013, as well as the levels necessary to
exceed the regulatory minimums or be considered “well capitalized”, see the Funding and Capital Sources portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report. When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019,
the Basel III capital rule will require that banking organizations maintain a minimum Tier 1 common ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%. Moreover, when fully phased-in, the rule will require banking
organizations to maintain a Tier 1 common ratio of at least 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of at least 10.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions (including common stock dividends and share
repurchases) and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. For banking organizations that are subject to the advanced approaches, these higher capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a
countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% during periods of excessive credit growth, although this buffer is initially set at zero in the United States.

As a result of the staggered effective dates of the final U.S. capital rules issued in July 2013, as well as the
fact that PNC remains in the parallel run qualification phase for the advanced approaches, PNC’s regulatory risk-based capital ratios in 2014 will be based on the definitions of, and deductions from, capital under the Basel III capital rule (as
such definitions and deductions are phased-in for 2014) and its Basel I risk-weighted assets (but subject to certain adjustments set forth in the rules). After January 1, 2015, and until PNC has exited parallel run, PNC’s regulatory
risk-based Basel III ratios will be calculated using the standardized approach for risk-weights. Once PNC exits parallel run, its regulatory Basel III risk-based capital ratios will be the lower of the ratios calculated under the standardized
approach or the advanced approaches.

Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject a banking organization to a variety of
enforcement remedies available to the federal bank regulatory agencies, including a limitation on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital and, in severe cases, the





6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Dodd-Frank

adopted in July 2013 and any applicable phase-in periods. In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates a company’s projected path towards compliance with the Basel III regulatory capital
framework on a fully implemented basis. After completing its review, the Federal Reserve may object or not object to the firm’s proposed capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common
stock repurchase programs, or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments. In connection with the 2014 CCAR, PNC filed its capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of September 30, 2013 with the Federal
Reserve on January 6, 2014. PNC expects to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2014 CCAR in March 2014.

As part of the CCAR and DFAST process, both the Federal Reserve and PNC release certain revenue, loss and capital results from their
stress testing exercises, generally in March of each year. For the 2014 exercises, the Federal Reserve has announced that it intends to publish its supervisory revenue, loss and capital projections for participating bank holding companies under the
supervisory adverse and severely adverse macro-economic scenarios using the common assumptions concerning capital distributions established by the Federal Reserve in its DFAST regulations (DFAST capital action assumptions), as well as capital ratio
information using the firm’s proposed base case capital actions. PNC also is required to publicly disclose its own estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory severely adverse
macro-economic scenario and applying the DFAST capital action assumptions. Federal Reserve regulations also require that PNC and other large bank holding companies conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as of
March 31stand three company-derived macro-economic
scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario in September.

Basel III Liquidity Requirements. The Basel III framework adopted by the Basel Committee also includes new short-term liquidity standards
(the “Liquidity Coverage Ratio” or “LCR”) and long-term funding standards (the “Net Stable Funding Ratio” or “NSFR”).

In October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies requested comment on proposed rules that would implement the LCR. The proposed rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an
adequate level of cash and high quality, unencumbered liquid assets (HQLA) to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow, outflow and maturity assumptions provided in the rules (net cash outflow). An
institution’s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the haircuts and limitations in the rule, divided by its net cash outflow, with the quotient expressed as a ratio. Under the proposed rules, banking
organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank, N.A., that are subject to the





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7




advanced approaches for regulatory capital purposes would, following a phase-in period that is proposed to begin January 1, 2015, have to maintain an LCR equal to at least 1.0 based on the
entity’s highest daily projected level of net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days. Under the phase-in provisions of the proposed rules, banking organizations would have to maintain HQLA equal to 80% of their LCR requirement beginning
in 2015 and 90% in 2016, with the LCR requirement becoming fully implemented in 2017. The comment period on the proposed rules closed on January 31, 2014. Although the impact on PNC will not be fully known until the rules are final, PNC has
taken several actions to prepare for implementation of the LCR and we expect to be in compliance with the LCR requirements when they become effective.

The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. The Basel Committee, in January 2014, requested comment on a
revised NSFR framework, with comments due by April 11, 2014. Under the revised framework, the NSFR would take effect by January 1, 2018, although the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A.
PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of PNC. PNC Bank, N.A. is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions
of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 22 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent
company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section and the Trust Preferred Securities and REIT Preferred Securities portion of the Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements And Variable Interest Entities section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 14 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Federal Reserve rules provide that a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and
to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not
maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital
needs, asset quality and overall financial

condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2014 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in 2014 will
reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share repurchase programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close
scrutiny. The Federal Reserve also has stated that it expects BHCs that meet the minimum capital ratio requirements under the Basel III capital rule during the transition periods provided by the rule, but that do not meet the fully-phased in Basel
III minimum plus capital conservation buffer ratio levels (plus any applicable capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks), to maintain prudent earnings retention policies with a view to meeting these levels in accordance with the
phase-in schedule included in the Basel III capital rule.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act

The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary
broker-dealers, investment advisers, insurance companies and banks, as well as investment companies advised by investment adviser subsidiaries of the financial holding company, also being subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state
“functional” regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business.





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through the
formation of a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage
through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve. Certain activities, however, are
impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including certain insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities, real estate investment or development, and merchant banking. In order to have a financial
subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be and remain “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity, or
acquire a company engaged in a new financial activity, if the national bank and any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the CRA.

Volcker Rule.

The Federal Reserve issued an order in December 2013 that provides banking entities until July 21,
2015 to bring their activities and investments into conformance with the requirements of the Volcker Rule. The Federal Reserve, upon request, may extend this conformance period, either generally or with respect to particular activities or
investments, for up to two additional one-year periods, and may extend the period up to an additional 5 years for investments held as of May 1, 2010 in qualifying illiquid funds. Based on the level of PNC’s trading assets and liabilities,
PNC is not subject to the metrics reporting requirements of the final rules. For additional information concerning the potential impact of the Volcker Rule on PNC’s operations, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective
action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company.

Laws and regulations limit the scope of our
permitted activities and investments. National banks (such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries generally may engage only in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking,
although a financial subsidiary may engage in a broader range of activities as described above.

Moreover, examination ratings of
“3” or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank
holding company to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities. The OCC, moreover, has been applying certain heightened risk management and governance
expectations in its supervision of PNC Bank, N.A. and other large national banks and recently proposed incorporating these expectations into the agency’s safety and soundness guidelines established under section 39 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (FDI Act) (12 U.S.C.1831p-1).If the OCC determines that a national bank is not in compliance with these or other guidelines established under section 39 of the FDI Act, the OCC may require the
bank to submit a corrective action plan and may initiate enforcement action against the bank if an acceptable plan is not submitted or the bank fails to comply with an approved plan.

The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or thrift, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of
more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or thrift, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or thrift holding company. The BHC Act enumerates the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the
merger of bank holding companies, the





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9




acquisition of banks, or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets;
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on financial stability of the United States; the organizations’ compliance withanti-moneylaundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction.
In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Federal Reserve also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank, N.A. to acquire another insured bank or
thrift by merger. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve. Our ability to grow through acquisitions could be limited by these approval
requirements.

At December 31, 2013, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated “Outstanding” with respect to CRA.

Because of PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.

FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of
FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles
take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank’s holdings of assets classified as higher risk by the FDIC. A negative evaluation
by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. The methodology for the deposit
insurance base calculation currently uses average assets less Tier 1 capital.

Resolution Planning. Dodd-Frank requires bank
holding companies that have $50 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and
orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on a covered bank holding company, including additional capital requirements or limitations on
growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company’s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S.

Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an acceptable
resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. The FDIC also has adopted a rule that requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, N.A., to periodically submit a resolution plan to the FDIC that
includes, among other things, an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. Depending on how the
agencies conduct their review of the resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, N.A., these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs. PNC and PNC
Bank, N.A. submitted their first resolution plans under these rules in December 2013.

CFPB Regulation and Supervision. As noted
above, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to credit card, deposit, mortgage and
other consumer financial products and services we offer. In addition, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB broad authority to take corrective action against PNC Bank, N.A. and PNC as it deems appropriate. The CFPB also has powers that it was assigned in
Dodd-Frank to issue regulations and take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. The agency also has authority to impose new
disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. These authorities are in addition to the authority the CFPB assumed on July 21, 2011 under existing consumer financial law governing the provision of consumer financial
products and services. The CFPB has concentrated much of its initial rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage related topics required under Dodd-Frank, including ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards,
loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages.

In January 2014, new rules issued by the CFPB for mortgage origination and mortgage servicing became effective. The rules require lenders to conduct a reasonable and good faith determination at or before
consummation of a residential mortgage loan that the borrower will have a reasonable ability to repay the loan. The regulations also define criteria for making Qualified Mortgages which entitle the lender and any assignee to either a conclusive or
rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability to repay rule. The new mortgage servicing rules include new standards for notices to consumers, loss mitigation procedures, and consumer requests for information. Both the origination and
servicing rules create new private rights of action for consumers in the event of certain violations. In addition to the exercise of its rulemaking





10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




authority, the CFPB is continuing its ongoing examination and supervisory activities with respect to a number of consumer businesses and products.

SECURITIESANDDERIVATIVESREGULATION

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and may provide investment advisory services to clients, other PNC
affiliates or related entities, including registered investment companies. Certain of these advisers are registered as investment advisers to private equity funds under rules adopted under Dodd-Frank.

Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated
thereunder. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization (SRO) for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. An investment adviser to a registered investment company is also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. Our
broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions.

Over the past
several years, the SEC and other regulatory agencies have increased their focus on the mutual fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are considering additional reforms that have increased, and are
likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries. Under provisions of the federal
securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates
can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect
a public company in its timing and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of
considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

e.g.

Based on the definition of a “swap dealer” under Title VII, PNC Bank, N.A. registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer on January 31, 2013. As a result thereof, PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to
the regulations and requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC will have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank, N.A.’s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Because of the limited volume of our
security-based swap activities, PNC Bank, N.A. has not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The regulations and requirements applicable to swap dealers will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC
Bank, N.A. and will introduce additional legal risks (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action).

In addition, an investment adviser to private funds or to registered investment companies may be required to register with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator. Registration could impose significant new
regulatory compliance burdens. Presently, we expect our subsidiaries that serve as investment advisers to such entities to be eligible for exemptions from registration as a commodity pool operator.

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA regulation, and a
federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K11




and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, we refer you to the discussion under the “Regulation” section of
Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

COMPETITION

We are subject to intense competition from various financial
institutions and from non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including
collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate
risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer deposits and investments.

PNC Bank, N.A. competes for deposits with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.

EMPLOYEES

Employees totaled 54,433 at December 31, 2013. This total includes 49,921 full-time and 4,512 part-time employees, of which 22,226 full-time and 4,030 part-time employees were employed by our Retail
Banking business.

SEC REPORTSANDCORPORATEGOVERNANCEINFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange
Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and information statements, and other information about
issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York,
New York 10005.

We also make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting
Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of
exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a





12The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal
accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website)
may do so by sending their requests to PNC’s Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

INTERNETINFORMATION

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our
corporate website under “About PNC – Investor Relations,” such as Investor Events, Quarterly Earnings, SEC Filings, Financial Information, Financial Press Releases, Regulatory Disclosures and Message from the CEO. Under “Investor
Relations,” we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating public information from time to time to investors. We
generally post the following on our corporate website shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with
earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and replay audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or
events several days prior to the call or event. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the
same information.

Starting in 2013, PNC is required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma
regulatory capital ratios under a supervisory hypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios in March of each year and under a PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenario in September of each year, as well as information
concerning its capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. PNC also is required to make certain market risk-related public disclosures under the Federal banking
agencies’ final market risk capital rule that

became effective on January 1, 2013 and implements the enhancements to the market risk framework adopted by the Basel Committee (commonly referred to as “Basel II.5”). In addition,
pursuant to regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, PNC will be required to make additional regulatory capital-related disclosures beginning in 2015. Under these regulations, PNC may be able to satisfy at least a portion of these
requirements through postings on its website, and PNC has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the sections below in the Investor Relations section of our website.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web
addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.

