ITEM 1 – BUSINESS



Business Overview

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, including residential mortgage, corporate and institutional banking and asset management, providing many of our products and services nationally. Our primary geographic markets are located in 19 states in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southeast. We also provide certain products and services internationally. AtDecember 31, 2017, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders’ equity were$380.8 billion,$265.1 billionand$47.5 billion, respectively.



We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.



Review of Business Segments

In addition to the following information relating to our businesses, we incorporate the information under the captionBusiness Segments Reviewin Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in Note22Segment Reportingin the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.



Effective for the first quarter of 2017, as a result of changes to how we manage our businesses, we realigned our segments and, accordingly, changed the basis of presentation of our segments, resulting in four reportable business segments:

•Retail Banking

•Corporate & Institutional Banking

•Asset Management Group

•BlackRock



See the Business Segments Review section in Item 7 for additional detail on our first quarter 2017 change.



Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. We periodically refine our internal methodologies as management reporting practices are enhanced. To the extent significant and practicable, retrospective application of new methodologies is made to prior period reportable business segment results and disclosures to create comparability with the current period. See Note22Segment Reportingin the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for information on adjustments made in the first quarter of 2017 to our internal funds transfer pricing methodology.



Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, insurance services, investment management and cash management products and services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, ATMs, call centers, online banking and mobile channels. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina. Deposit products include checking, savings and money market accounts and certificates of deposit. Lending products include residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit, auto loans, credit cards, education loans and personal and small business loans and lines of credit. The residential mortgage loans are directly originated within our branch network and nationwide, and are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and either sold, servicing retained, or held on our balance sheet. Brokerage, investment management and cash management products and services include managed, education, retirement and trust accounts.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K1





Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with us. We also seek to deepen relationships by meeting the broad range of our customers’ financial needs with savings, liquidity, lending, investment and retirement solutions. A strategic priority for us is to reinvent the retail banking experience in response to changing customer preferences. A key element of this strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels, with an emphasis on digital capabilities, while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.



Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized and large corporations, and government and not-for-profit entities. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, securities underwriting, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and equity capital markets advisory related services. We also provide commercial loan servicing and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Products and services are provided nationally. We offer certain products and services internationally.



Corporate & Institutional Banking’s strategy is to be the leading relationship-based provider of traditional banking products and services to its customers through the economic cycles. We aim to grow our market share and drive higher returns by delivering value-added solutions that help our clients better run their organizations, all while maintaining prudent risk and expense management.



Asset Management Groupprovides personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions, and trust management and administration for individuals and their families. Our Hawthorn unit provides multi-generational family planning including estate, financial, tax planning, fiduciary, investment management and consulting, private banking, personal administrative services, asset custody and customized performance reporting to ultra high net worth families. Institutional asset management provides advisory, custody and retirement administration services. The business also offers PNC proprietary mutual funds. Institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments, primarily located in our geographic footprint.





Asset Management Group is focused on being a premier bank-held individual and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality banking, trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s priorities are to serve our clients' financial objectives, grow and deepen customer relationships and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.



BlackRock, in which we hold an equity investment, is a leading publicly-traded investment management firm providing a broad range of investment, risk management and technology services to institutional and retail clients worldwide. Using a diverse platform of active and index investment strategies across asset classes, BlackRock develops investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. BlackRock also offers an investment and risk management technology platform, risk analytics, advisory and technology services and solutions to a broad base of institutional and wealth management investors. Our equity investment in BlackRock provides us with an additional source of noninterest income and increases our overall revenue diversification. BlackRock is a publicly-traded company, and additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Subsidiaries

Our corporate legal structure atDecember 31, 2017consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 50 active non-bank subsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank), a national bank headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:

Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And NetInterest Analysis158Analysis Of Year-To-Year ChangesIn Net Interest Income159Book Values Of Securities37 and 108-111Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield OfSecurities37 and 110-111Loan Types36, 53, 98-99 and 160Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity163Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans AndOther Nonperforming Assets53-59, 87-90, 97-105 and 161Potential Problem Loans53-59Summary Of Loan Loss Experience58-59, 106-107 and 162Allocation Of Allowance For Loan And LeaseLosses58-59 and 162Average Amount And Average Rate Paid OnDeposits158Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More163Selected Consolidated Financial Data28-29Short-term Borrowings – not included as averagebalances during 2017, 2016, and 2015 were lessthan 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the endof each period.



Supervision and Regulation

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is a bank holding company (BHC) registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).



We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note18Regulatory Mattersin the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The consequences of noncompliance with these, or other applicable laws or regulations, can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.





In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity and various other factors.



The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations fail to comply with applicable law or regulations or are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations.



The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is responsible for examining PNC Bank and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB’s examinations (which are not publicly available) also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements.



We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our businesses with operations outside the United States are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.



As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3





Among the areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus are compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, capital and liquidity management, fair lending and other consumer protection issues, including retail sales practices, fee assessment and collection, cyber-security, capital planning and stress testing, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, the protection of confidential customer information, and the structure and effectiveness of enterprise risk management frameworks.



New legislation, changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on current laws and regulations and is subject to potentially material change. See also the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory initiatives on the regulatory environment for us and the financial services industry, including ongoing implementation of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) reforms.



The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial sectors in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.



In the fourth quarter of 2017, federal tax reform legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, was enacted and, among other provisions, lowered the statutory tax rate for corporations to 21% from 35% effective January 1, 2018. PNC's consolidated financial statements for the fourth quarter and full year 2017 reflect reasonable estimates of the impact of the tax legislation as of December 31, 2017, and the amounts could be adjusted during the measurement period, which will end in December 2018. See the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments section in Item 7 of this Report for more detail.



There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and supervisory policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets and financial system in general.





Banking Regulation and Supervision

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning



The regulatory capital rules generally divide regulatory capital into three components: common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together with CET1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, qualifying minority interest and, for PNC and PNC Bank as advanced approaches banking organizations, accumulated other comprehensive income related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans, less the deductions required to be made from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less the deductions required to be made from additional Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt, less any required deductions from Tier 2 capital. There are significant limits on the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (including minority interests in the form of REIT preferred securities) may be included in regulatory capital.



Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from total capital. Significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets, must be deducted from CET1 regulatory capital (subject to a phase-in schedule and net of associated deferred tax liabilities) to the extent such items individually exceed 10%, or in the aggregate exceed 15%, of our adjusted Basel III CET1 regulatory capital. Our common stock investment in BlackRock is treated



4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





as a significant common stock investment in an unconsolidated financial institution for these purposes.



The regulatory capital rules include a standardized approach for determining a banking organization’s risk-weighted assets for purposes of calculating the risk-based capital ratios. To determine risk-weighted assets under the standardized approach, a banking organization must allocate its assets and specified off-balance sheet financial exposures and instruments into risk-weighted categories. The standardized approach for risk-weighted assets takes into account credit and market risk. To calculate risk-weighted assets under the standardized approach for credit risk, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are generally multiplied by risk weights set forth in the rules, which increase as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset or exposure increases. For certain types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure. High volatility commercial real estate, past due, securitization and equity exposures, as well as investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital are generally subject to higher risk weights than other types of exposures.



Advanced approaches banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank) are also required to calculate risk-weighted assets using a separate methodology, referred to as the advanced approaches, that is based on the Basel II capital framework. The Basel II framework, seeks to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. Advanced approaches risk-weighted assets take into account credit, market and operational risk and rely to a significant extent on internal models. Prior to fully implementing the advanced approaches to calculate risk-weighted assets, PNC and PNC Bank must successfully complete a “parallel run” qualification phase. PNC and PNC Bank entered this parallel run qualification phase on January 1, 2013. As discussed further in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report, the Basel Committee in 2017 finalized additional, significant changes to the international capital framework for banking organizations.The extent to and manner in which these or similar changes would be implemented by the U.S. banking agencies, and the implications of any such developments on the U.S. regulatory capital framework (including the advanced approaches and the parallel run qualification period for PNC and PNC Bank) are not fully known at this time.



As a result of the phase-in period for provisions of the Basel III capital rules, as well as the fact that we remain in the parallel run qualification phase for the advanced approaches, our regulatory risk-based capital ratios in 2017 were based on the definitions of, and deductions from, regulatory capital (as such definitions and deductions were phased-in for 2017) and the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets. Until we have exited parallel run, our regulatory risk-



based capital ratios will be calculated using the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets, and the definitions of, and deductions from, capital (as such definitions and deductions are phased-in). Once we exit parallel run, our regulatory risk-based capital ratios will be the lower of the ratios calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. We refer to the capital ratios calculated using the phased-in Basel III provisions as the Transitional Basel III ratios. The Transitional Basel III regulatory capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2017 exceeded the applicable minimum levels. For additional information regarding the Transitional Basel III capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2017, as well as the levels needed to be considered “well capitalized”, see the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report.





For advanced approaches banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank), these higher capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer based on U.S. credit exposures of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets (once fully phased-in). This buffer is currently set at zero in the U.S. A 2016 Federal Reserve policy statement establishes the framework and factors the Federal Reserve would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the Federal Reserve determines to establish an earlier effective date. Under the phase-in schedule for the countercyclical capital buffer, the maximum potential



The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5





countercyclical capital buffer amount is 1.875% in 2018 and 2.5% in 2019 and thereafter. When fully phased-in and if the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, PNC and PNC Bank could be required to maintain a risk-based CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a total capital ratio of at least 13% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments.



PNC and PNC Bank are not subject to the additional risk-based CET1 capital surcharge, minimum long-term debt requirement, or minimum total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement that applies to U.S. firms identified as globally systemically important banks (GSIBs).



The regulatory capital rules also require that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets, referred to as the leverage ratio. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%. As of December 31, 2017, the leverage ratios of PNC and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level.



Advanced approaches banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank) also are subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio that took effect on January 1, 2018. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. BHCs with total consolidated assets of more than $700 billion or assets under custody of more than $10 trillion, as well as the insured depository institution subsidiaries of these BHCs, are subject to a higher supplementary leverage ratio requirement. These higher supplementary leverage requirements do not apply to PNC or PNC Bank.



Failure to meet applicable capital requirements could subject a banking organization to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal banking agencies, including a limitation on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital and, in severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the greater the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers. Business activities may also be affected by an institution’s capital classification. For example, as a financial holding company, PNC and PNC Bank must remain “well capitalized.” At December 31, 2017, PNC and PNC Bank exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” The thresholds at which an insured depository institution is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly



undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized” are based on (i) the institution’s CET1, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios; (ii) the institution’s leverage ratio; and (iii) for the definitions of “adequately capitalized” and “undercapitalized”, the institution’s supplementary leverage ratio. For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, see the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of theRisk Managementsection of Item 7 of this Report and to Note18Regulatory Mattersin the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.



In addition to potential changes to the U.S. capital rules as a result of developments at the Basel Committee, the U.S. banking agencies also are undertaking a review of the regulatory capital rules. In September 2017, the banking agencies jointly requested public comment on a proposal that would implement certain changes to the Basel III regulatory capital rules. The proposal would reduce the risk weight (from 150 percent to 130 percent) for high-volatility commercial real estate exposures under the standardized approach, while also making certain changes to the definition of such exposures and relabeling such exposures as either high-volatility acquisition, development or construction exposures. For non-advanced approaches banking organizations, the proposal also would modify the threshold deductions from CET1 regulatory capital for significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, mortgage servicing rights and certain deferred tax assets. The public comment period on the proposal closed on December 26, 2017.



In addition to regulatory capital requirements, we are subject to the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, annual capital stress testing requirements and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, as well as the annual and mid-year Dodd-Frank capital stress testing (DFAST) requirements of the Federal Reserve (annual and mid-cycle) and the OCC (annual). As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital planning process of BHCs, including PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. For us, this capital planning assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve that describes the company’s planned capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common stock repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments, during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the Federal Reserve under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory adverse scenario and severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve can object to our capital plan for qualitative or quantitative reasons. If the Federal Reserve objects to a BHC’s capital plan, the BHC cannot make capital distributions without Federal Reserve approval.



In evaluating capital plans of advanced approaches BHCs (such as PNC) or BHCs with $75 million or more in nonbank assets, the Federal Reserve considers a number of qualitative factors, which have become increasingly important in the



6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





CCAR process in recent years. The Federal Reserve’s supervisory expectations for the capital planning and stress testing processes at large and complex BHCs, including PNC, are heightened relative to smaller and less complex BHCs. In assessing a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes, the Federal Reserve considers whether the BHC has sound and effective governance to oversee these processes. The Federal Reserve’s evaluation focuses on whether a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes are supported by a strong risk management framework to identify, measure and assess material risks and that provides a strong foundation to capital planning. The Federal Reserve also considers the comprehensiveness of a BHC’s control framework and evaluates a BHC’s policy guidelines for capital planning and assessing capital adequacy. A BHC’s stress testing scenario design processes and approaches for estimating the impact of stress on its capital position, including stress testing models and non-model qualitative approaches, are comprehensively reviewed to ensure that projections reflect the impact of appropriately stressful conditions, as well as risks idiosyncratic to the BHC, on its capital position. Significant deficiencies in a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes may result in a qualitative objection by the Federal Reserve to its capital plan.



From a quantitative perspective, the Federal Reserve considers whether under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including the supervisory severely adverse scenario, the BHC would be able to maintain, throughout each quarter of the nine quarter review period, projected regulatory risk-based and leverage capital ratios that exceed the applicable minimums. In making these estimates, the Federal Reserve assumes that the BHC would continue its base case capital actions in each supervisory scenario, including the severely adverse scenario. Failure to meet a minimum regulatory risk-based or leverage capital requirement on a projected stress basis is grounds for objection to a BHC’s capital plan.



In connection with the 2018 CCAR exercise, we must file our capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of December 31, 2017 with the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2018. We expect to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2018 CCAR in June 2018.



As part of the CCAR and annual DFAST processes, both we and the Federal Reserve release certain revenue, loss and capital results from stress testing exercises. For the 2018 exercises, the Federal Reserve has announced that it intends to publish its supervisory revenue, loss and capital projections for participating BHCs under the supervisory adverse and severely adverse macro-economic scenarios using the common assumptions concerning capital distributions established by the Federal Reserve in its DFAST regulations (DFAST capital action assumptions), as well as capital ratio information using the company’s proposed base case capital actions. Within 15 days of the Federal Reserve publishing its DFAST results, we also are required to publicly disclose our own estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory severely adverse



macro-economic scenario and applying the DFAST capital action assumptions.



Federal Reserve regulations also require that we and other large BHCs conduct a separate, mid-cycle stress test using financial data as of June 30 and three company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. For the 2018 mid-cycle stress test cycle, we must publish our results in the period between October 5 and November 4, 2018.



The Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule provides that a BHC must resubmit a new capital plan prior to the annual submission date if, among other things, there has been or will be a material change in the BHC’s risk profile, financial condition or corporate structure since its last capital plan submission. Under the “de minimis” safe harbor of the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, we may make limited repurchases of common stock or other capital distributions in amounts that exceed the amounts included in our most recently approved capital plan subject to certain conditions, including that the Federal Reserve does not object to the additional repurchases or distributions. Such additional distributions may not exceed, in the aggregate, 0.25% of Tier 1 capital during the relevant 12-month period.



Regulatory Liquidity Standards and Liquidity Risk Management Requirements. The Basel Committee's Basel III framework included short-term liquidity standards (Liquidity Coverage Ratio or LCR) and long-term funding standards (Net Stable Funding Ratio or NSFR).



The U.S. banking agencies' LCR rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and high quality, unencumbered liquid assets (HQLA) to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions prescribed in the rules (net cash outflow). A company’s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the haircuts and limitations in the rule, divided by its net cash outflows, with the quotient expressed as a percentage. The regulatory minimum LCR that covered banking organizations are required to maintain is 100%. As of December 31, 2017, the LCR for PNC and PNC Bank exceeded the fully phased-in requirement of 100%.



Top-tier BHCs (like PNC) that are subject to the advanced approaches for regulatory capital purposes, as well as any subsidiary depository institution of such a company that has $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets (such as PNC Bank), are subject to the full LCR (rather than the less stringent modified LCR). PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis. Under the full LCR, an institution required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis must promptly provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum LCR requirement if its LCR is below the minimum requirement for three consecutive business days.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7





The Federal Reserve requires large BHCs, including PNC, to publicly disclose certain quantitative and qualitative measures of their LCR-related liquidity profile. These disclosures include major components used to calculate the LCR (e.g., HQLA, cash outflows and inflows for the consolidated parent company), and a qualitative discussion of the BHC’s LCR results, including, among other things, key drivers of the results, composition of HQLA and concentration of funding sources. We are required to make these disclosures starting with the second quarter of 2018.



The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. In 2016, the federal banking agencies requested comment on proposed rules that would implement the NSFR in the United States. The proposed rules would require a covered BHC to calculate its NSFR as the ratio of its available stable funding (ASF) to its required stable funding (RSF) amount, each as defined in the proposed rules, over a one-year horizon. The regulatory minimum ratio for all covered banking organizations is 100%. For BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more, but less than $250 billion, and on-balance sheet foreign exposure of less than $10 billion, the RSF amount is scaled by a factor of 70%. The proposal also includes requirements for quarterly quantitative and qualitative NSFR disclosures. Although the impact on us will not be fully known until the rules are finalized, we have taken several actions to prepare for implementation of the NSFR and we expect to be in compliance with the NSFR requirements if and when they become effective.



PNC is also subject to Federal Reserve rules that require BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets to, among other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC’s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets detailed requirements.



For additional discussion of regulatory liquidity requirements, please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report.



Source of Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank. PNC Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. PNC Bank is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note18Regulatory Mattersin the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity is also available in the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of theRisk Managementsection of Item 7 of this Report





Federal Reserve rules provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Dodd-Frank requires that the Federal Reserve jointly adopt new rules with the OCC and the FDIC to implement this source of strength requirement. These joint rules have not yet been proposed. Consistent with this source of strength policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2018 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in 2018 to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny.



Enhanced Prudential Requirements.Under Federal Reserve rules, PNC (and other BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more) are subject to enhanced prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management. These rules, among other things, establish liquidity stress testing requirements (described further below) and certain oversight and governance responsibilities for the chief risk officer, the board of directors, and the risk committee of the board of directors of a covered company. These standards also require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt to equity ratio on a BHC, if the federal agencies that comprise the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), determine that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk.



The Federal Reserve is also required to establish single counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements for BHCs with more than $50 billion in total assets. The Federal Reserve requested comment on proposed rules to implement a single counterparty credit limit in March 2016. Under those rules, the aggregate net credit exposure by PNC, to any single, unaffiliated counterparty, including its subsidiaries, would have to be calculated on a daily basis and could not exceed 25 percent of our Tier 1 capital. The proposed limit would cover credit exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, purchases or investments in securities, and derivative transactions, although certain exposures, including, among others, exposures to the U.S. government, would be excluded. Compliance with the proposed rules would be required one year after the effective date. The proposed rule, if finalized, would not have a material impact on our credit relationships with third parties.





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





The Federal Reserve is also required to establish early remediation requirements for BHCs with more than $50 billion in total assets and continues to work towards finalizing these requirements.



In addition, the Federal Reserve may continue to develop the set of enhanced prudential standards that apply to large BHCs in order to further promote the resiliency of such firms and the U.S. financial system. For additional information see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.



Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The GLB Act permits a qualifying BHC to become a “financial holding company” and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies, insurance agents and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. A BHC qualifies to become a financial holding company if the BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions are “well capitalized” and “well managed” and its subsidiary depository institutions have a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) of Satisfactory or better. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities. As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities, and we are generally permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve.



In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve (other than insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities and merchant banking). In order to establish a financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be “well capitalized” and “well managed” and the national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must have a CRA rating of Satisfactory or better.



If a financial holding company or a national bank with a financial subsidiary fails to continue to meet the applicable “well capitalized” or “well managed” criteria, the financial holding company or national bank must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve or the OCC, respectively, that, among other things, identifies how the capital or management deficiencies will be corrected. Until such



deficiencies are corrected, the relevant agency may impose limits or conditions on the activities of the company or bank, and the company or bank may not engage in, or acquire a company engaged in, the types of expanded activities only permissible for a financial holding company or financial subsidiary without prior approval of the relevant agency.



In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new activity, if any of its insured depository institutions receives a CRA rating of less than Satisfactory rating. A national bank’s financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a CRA rating of less than Satisfactory.



Volcker Rule.Banking entities of any size, including PNC, are prohibited under the Volcker Rule and its implementing regulations from engaging in short-term trading as principal and having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds, private equity funds, and certain other private funds (together, “covered funds”), unless an exemption or exception applies. For example, the exemptions under the Volcker Rule allow PNC to trade as principal for securities underwriting, market making and risk-mitigating hedging purposes, subject to a variety of conditions.



To date, the prohibitions under the final Volcker Rule regulations have not had, and we do not expect them to have in the future, a material effect on our businesses or revenue. However, the conditions for engaging in exempted trading activities and having permissible relationships with a private fund under the regulations could, depending on the agencies’ approach to interpreting them, cause us to forego engaging in hedging or other transactions that we would otherwise undertake in the ordinary course of business and, thus, to some extent, may limit our ability to most effectively hedge our risks, manage our balance sheet or provide products or services to our customers.



The final Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance and reporting obligations on banking entities.  We are subject to the enhanced compliance program requirements and have adopted an enterprise Volcker compliance program.  We have also divested prohibited investments in covered funds and received extensions allowing an extended conformance period for our remaining $.2 billion interests in illiquid covered funds (as defined by the applicable requirements).



Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies also possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company, and the Federal Reserve and the OCC have the ability to take enforcement action against PNC and PNC Bank, respectively, to prevent and remedy acts and practices that the agencies determine to be unfair or deceptive.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9







In August 2017, the Federal Reserve requested public comment on a proposal that would introduce a new supervisory rating system for BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including PNC. Under the proposal, covered BHCs would receive separate ratings from the Federal Reserve for (i) capital planning and positions, (ii) liquidity risk management and positions and (iii) governance and controls. Each of these component areas would receive one of the following four ratings: (i) Satisfactory, (ii) Satisfactory Watch, (iii) Deficient-1 or (iv) Deficient-2. As proposed, a covered BHC would have to maintain a rating of Satisfactory Watch or better for each of the three components to be considered “well managed”. The public comment period for the proposal closed on February 15, 2018, with initial ratings under the new framework to be assigned during 2018.



Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve’s implementing regulation, Regulation W, place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates (for example between PNC Bank, on the one hand, and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the other hand). In general, section 23A and Regulation W limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and any single affiliate to 10 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and all its affiliates to 20 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, prohibit a bank from purchasing low-quality assets from an affiliate, and require certain covered transactions to be secured with prescribed amounts of collateral. Section 23B generally requires that transactions between a bank and its affiliates be on terms that are at least as



favorable to the bank as the terms that would apply in comparable transactions between the bank and a third party. Dodd-Frank amended section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative transaction with the affiliate. The Federal Reserve has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions.



The Federal Reserve and the OCC have provided guidance regarding incentive and other elements of compensation provided to executives and other employees at financial services companies they regulate, both as general industry-wide guidance and guidance specific to select larger companies, including PNC. These guidelines are intended to ensure that the incentive compensation practices of covered banking organizations do not encourage excessive risk-taking.  The Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC and two other regulatory agencies jointly proposed regulations in 2011 and again in 2016 to implement the incentive compensation requirements of Section 956 of Dodd-Frank. Regulation of compensation provided by us to our executives and other employees, whether through guidance or rules and regulations, could hamper our ability to attract and retain quality employees.



The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or BHC, or to merge or consolidate with any other BHC. The BHC Act and other federal law enumerates the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations’ compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction.



The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is also required, and similar factors are considered, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of a savings association or savings and loan holding company, or to merge or consolidate with a savings and loan holding company. In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Federal Reserve also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. Under Dodd-Frank, a BHC is generally prohibited from merging or consolidating with, or acquiring, another company if upon consummation the resulting company would control 10% or more of deposits in the U.S or a state, or if the resulting company’s liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate liabilities of the U.S. financial sector (including the U.S. liabilities of foreign financial companies). In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the



10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





Federal Reserve, could order the break-up of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States.



OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank to acquire another insured bank or savings association by merger or to acquire deposits or substantially all of the assets of such institutions. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve in connection with the acquisition of a bank or BHC. Approval of the FDIC is required to merge a nonbank entity into PNC Bank. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or reorganize our operations could be limited by these approval requirements.



At December 31, 2017, PNC Bank had an Outstanding rating with respect to the CRA.



Based on the Federal Reserve’s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it considers BlackRock to be a subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. for purposes of the BHC Act due to PNC’s current and historical ownership interest in, as well as  other relationships with, BlackRock and, thus, subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.



FDIC Insurance and Related Matters. PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to deposit premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary federal banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank’s holdings of assets or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category.



Federal banking laws and regulations also apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a “well capitalized” insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In addition, brokered deposits are generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR.



The FDIC has imposed a deposit insurance assessment surcharge on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more (including PNC Bank), which will continue in effect until the earlier of (i) the date on which the Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) reaches 1.35% (estimated by the FDIC to occur before the end of 2018), or (ii) December 31, 2018. If the ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC will



impose a one-time shortfall assessment on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more (including PNC Bank).



Resolution and Recovery Planning



PNC Bank also is subject to OCC guidelines under section 39 of the FDI Act that establish standards for recovery planning. These guidelines require a covered bank to develop and maintain a recovery plan that, among other things, identifies a range of options that could be undertaken by the covered bank to restore its financial strength and viability should identified triggering events occur. The recovery plan guidelines are enforceable in the same manner as the other guidelines the OCC has established under section 39 of the FDI Act.



CFPB Regulation and Supervision. The CFPB examines PNC and PNC Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services that we offer. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service.



The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by PNC Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that we receive, alter the way we provide our products and services, or expose us to greater risk of private litigation



The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K11





or regulatory enforcement action. The CFPB may engage in rulemakings affecting prepaid cards, data on small business lending, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and payday, vehicle title, and certain high-cost installment loans.



Securities and Derivatives Regulation

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, respectively, and related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.



Our investment adviser subsidiary that serves as adviser to registered investment companies is also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and related regulations. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions.



The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect our ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.



Dodd-Frank imposed comprehensive and significant regulations on the activities of financial institutions that are active in the U.S. over-the-counter derivatives and foreign exchange markets. These regulations were intended to (i) address systemic risk issues, (ii) bring greater transparency to the derivatives markets, (iii) provide enhanced disclosures and protections to customers and (iv) promote market integrity. Among other things, Dodd-Frank: (i) requires the registration of both “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” with one or both of the CFTC (in the case of non security-based swaps) and the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps); (ii) requires that most standardized swaps be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house and traded on a centralized exchange or swap execution facility; (iii) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to capital and margin requirements in excess of historical practice; (iv) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to comprehensive new recordkeeping and real-time public reporting requirements; (v) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to new business conduct requirements, including the provision of daily marks to counterparties and disclosing to counterparties (pre-execution) the material risks, material incentives, and any conflicts of interest associated with their swap; (vi) imposes special duties on swap dealers and major swap participants when transacting



a swap with a “special entity” (e.g., governmental agency (federal, state or local) or political subdivision thereof, pension plan or endowment); and (vii) imposes margin requirements on swaps that are not centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house.



As a registered swap dealer with the CFTC, PNC Bank's derivatives and foreign exchange businesses are subject to the regulations and requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC (and for certain delegated responsibilities, the National Futures Association) has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank’s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap activities, PNC Bank has not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The regulations and requirements applicable to swap dealers have and will continue to impose compliance burdens on PNC Bank and introduces additional legal risks (including as a result of applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). In addition, failure to comply with the "pay-to-play" regulations that govern our swap and municipal securities businesses could result in limitations on PNC Bank's ability to conduct swap and municipal securities business with state or local governments and their authorities.



BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA regulation, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, see the discussion under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.



Regulations of Other Agencies

In addition to regulations issued by the federal banking, securities and derivatives regulators, we also are subject to regulations issued by other federal agencies with respect to certain financial products and services we offer. For example, certain of our fiduciary, brokerage and investment management activities are subject to regulations issued by the Department of Labor (DOL) under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and certain of our student lending and servicing activities are subject to regulation by the Department of Education. Certain provisions of final rules issued by the DOL expanding the definition of “investment advice” for retirement accounts and certain other accounts took effect in June 2017. The rules increased the scope of activities that give rise to fiduciary status under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code and primarily apply to aspects of our Retail Banking and Asset Management Group segments. Certain requirements of the amended rules that had been scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2018 have been delayed until July 1, 2019 and the DOL is expected to propose amendments to the rules during the delay.





12The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K





Competition

We are subject to intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions and non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.



PNC Bank competes for deposits and/or loans with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Credit unions,

•Consumer finance companies,

•Leasing companies,

•Other non-bank lenders,

•Financial technology companies,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.



In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Financial technology companies,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.



Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers,

•Hedge funds,

•Mutual fund complexes,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.



Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for deposits and investments. Competitors may seek to compete with us through traditional channels such as physical locations or through digital channels such as internet or mobile. We include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in the Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.



Employees

Employees totaled52,906at December 31,2017. This total included50,358full-time and2,548part-time employees, of which29,604full-time and2,368part-time employees were employed by our Retail Banking business.





SEC Reports and Corporate Governance Information

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330. You can obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.



The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.



We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically.



Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance, including our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address.



Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board of Directors’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to PNC’s Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at The



The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K13





Tower at PNC Plaza, 300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2401. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.



Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”



Internet Information

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under “About Us – Investor Relations.” We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating to the public information that may be relevant to investors.



We generally post the following under “About Us – Investor Relations” shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases, and supplemental financial information, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events several days prior to the call or event. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and non-GAAP financial information, and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we include non-GAAP financial information. Where applicable, we provide such GAAP reconciliations in materials for that event or in materials for prior investor presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports.



We are required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios under supervisory and PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios, as well as information concerning our capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. We are also required to make certain additional regulatory capital-related public disclosures about our capital structure, risk exposures, risk assessment processes, risk-weighted assets and overall capital adequacy, including market risk-related disclosures, under the regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Under these regulations, we may satisfy these requirements through postings on our website, and we have done so and expect to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC.





Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings with the SEC includes information relating to our corporate governance and annual communications from our chairman to shareholders.



Where we have included internet addresses in this Report, such as our internet address and the internet address of the SEC, we have included those internet addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.





