ITEM1 – BUSINESS

BUSINESSOVERVIEW

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and
institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally, as well as products and services in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey,
Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, North Carolina, Florida, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Alabama, Virginia, Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At
December 31, 2012, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders’ equity were $305.1 billion, $213.1 billion and $39.0 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have
diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

RBC BANK(USA) ACQUISITION

On March 2, 2012, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding common stock of RBC Bank (USA), the U.S. retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada. As part of the acquisition, PNC also
purchased a credit card portfolio from RBC Bank (Georgia), National Association. PNC paid $3.6 billion in cash as the consideration for the acquisition of both RBC Bank (USA) and the credit card portfolio. The transaction added approximately $18.1
billion in deposits, $14.5 billion of loans and $1.1 billion of goodwill and intangible assets to PNC’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of business activity associated with the RBC Bank (USA)
acquisition subsequent to March 2, 2012.

RBC Bank (USA), based in Raleigh, North Carolina, operated more than 400 branches in North
Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and South Carolina. The primary reasons for the acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) were to enhance

shareholder value, to improve PNC’s competitive position in the financial services industry, and to further expand PNC’s existing branch network in the states where it currently
operates as well as expanding into new markets.

SALEOFSMARTSTREET

Effective October 26, 2012, PNC divested certain deposits and assets of the Smartstreet business unit, which was acquired by PNC as part of the RBC
Bank (USA) acquisition, to Union Bank, N.A. Smartstreet is a nationwide business focused on homeowner or community association managers and had approximately $1 billion of assets and deposits as of September 30, 2012. The gain on sale was
immaterial and we reduced goodwill and core deposit intangibles of $46 million and $13 million, respectively.

FLAGSTARBRANCHACQUISITION

Effective December 9, 2011, PNC acquired 27 branches in the northern metropolitan
Atlanta, Georgia area from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $210 million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.

BANKATLANTICBRANCHACQUISITION

Effective June 6, 2011, PNC acquired 19 branches in the greater Tampa, Florida area from BankAtlantic, a subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. We
assumed approximately $324 million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.

REVIEWOFBUSINESSSEGMENTS

In addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the captions Business Segment Highlights, Product Revenue, and Business Segments Review in
Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in Note 26 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for
periods prior to 2012 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K1




same basis. Business segment information does not include PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS). Results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related after-tax gain on its
sale in the third quarter of 2010 are reflected in discontinued operations.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending,
brokerage, investment management and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers, online banking and mobile channels.
The branch network is principally located in our primary geographical markets.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who
maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets, including
retirement assets. A key element of our strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the
engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management and capital markets-related products and services to
mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and
investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications,
mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan
servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain
products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier
provider of financial services in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to our customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the
comprehensive resources of PNC to help each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and
prudent risk and expense management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high
net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and
administration for individuals and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody and retirement administration services. Institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits,
foundations and endowments, primarily located in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier
bank-held individual and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality banking advice and trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and
institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service our clients, grow the business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a
significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and also originates loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically
underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and sold, servicing retained, to secondary mortgage conduits of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and
third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this
Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans, primarily those in first lien position, for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loan applications
are brokered by majority owned affiliates to others.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building
stronger customer relationships, providing quality investment loans, and delivering acceptable returns consistent with a moderate risk philosophy. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion,
and cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.

BlackRockis a leader in
investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. BlackRock provides diversified investment





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




management services to institutional clients, intermediary and individual investors through various investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily consist of the management of
equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products. BlackRock offers its investment products in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,iShares®exchange-traded funds (ETFs), collective investment trusts and separate accounts. In addition, BlackRock provides
market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of clients. Financial markets advisory services include valuation services relating to illiquid securities, dispositions and workout
assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution.

We hold an equity
investment in BlackRock, which is a key component of our diversified revenue strategy. BlackRock is a publicly traded company, and additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).

Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio(formerly, Distressed Assets Portfolio) includes a consumer portfolio of mainly
residential mortgage and brokered home equity loans and a small commercial loan and lease portfolio. We obtained a significant portion of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies.

SUBSIDIARIES

Our
corporate legal structure at December 31, 2012 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 141 active non-bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.),
headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.

STATISTICALDISCLOSUREBYBANKHOLDINGCOMPANIESThe following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report
and is incorporated herein by reference:Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance SheetAnd Net Interest Analysis237 – 238Analysis Of Year-To-Year ChangesIn Net Interest Income239Book Values Of Securities46 – 49and 165 – 171Maturities And Weighted-AverageYield Of Securities170 – 171Loan Types42 – 45, 145 and 240Selected Loan Maturities AndInterest Sensitivity242Nonaccrual, Past Due AndRestructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets85 – 95, 130 – 131,146 – 158 and240 – 241Potential Problem Loans And LoansHeld For Sale49 – 50 and86 – 97Summary Of Loan Loss Experience95 – 97,146 – 158, 162 – 164and 241Assignment Of Allowance For LoanAnd Lease Losses95 – 97 and242Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits237 – 238Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More191 and 242Selected Consolidated Financial Data29 – 30Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2012, 2011, and 2010
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.EUROPEANEXPOSUREFor information regarding our exposure to European entities at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, see the European Exposure section included in Item 7 of this Report.





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3




SUPERVISIONANDREGULATION

OVERVIEW

PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 22
Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments and
require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank
subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which result in examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, but also capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the
imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among
other things, that such operations are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with the regulations or supervisory policies of the agency. This supervisory framework could materially
impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new agency established by
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), is responsible for examining PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with most consumer financial protection laws and for enforcing such laws with
respect to PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates. This authority previously was exercised by the OCC and the Federal Reserve. The CFPB also now has authority for prescribing rules governing the provision of consumer financial products and services such
as credit cards, student and other loans, deposits and residential mortgages. The agency has issued final regulations that impose broad new

requirements relating to our mortgage origination activities and the servicing activities we perform for residential mortgage loans. These regulations include a requirement that residential
mortgage lenders, like PNC Bank, make a “good faith and reasonable determination” at or before the time of consummation of a residential mortgage loan that the prospective borrower has a reasonable ability to repay that loan. The new
regulations also include broad new requirements applicable to servicers of residential mortgage loans, like PNC, which include provisions requiring policies and procedures relating to how servicers respond to and manage loans of borrowers who are in
default. Most of these regulations are scheduled to take effect in January of 2014. In addition, the CFPB is now considering additional regulations that will modify the application and closing disclosures that must be provided to borrowers in
connection with residential mortgage loans.

As a result of Dodd-Frank, after July 21, 2011, subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. are subject
to state law and regulation to the same extent as if they were not subsidiaries of a national bank. Additionally, based on Dodd-Frank, state authorities may assert that certain state consumer financial laws that provide different requirements or
limitations than Federal law may apply to national banks, including PNC Bank, N.A. Such state laws may be preempted if they meet certain standards set forth in Dodd-Frank or other applicable law. We expect to experience an increase in regulation of
our Retail Banking, Asset Management Group and Residential Mortgage Banking businesses and additional compliance obligations, revenue and cost impacts.

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our
banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted by BlackRock, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of
our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to
conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.

We anticipate new
legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives would be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the
regulators, including the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009





4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




(Credit CARD Act), the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), and Dodd-Frank, as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, including the new rules set forth in Regulation E related to overdraft charges.

Dodd-Frank established the
10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically
important” and could, in extraordinary cases and in conjunction with the Federal Reserve, break up financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. Dodd-Frank also requires the Federal
Reserve to establish prudential standards for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion that are more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to bank holding companies with assets
below this threshold, and that increase in stringency for bank holding companies that present heightened risk to the financial system. Additional information concerning these enhanced prudential standards is provided in Item 1A – Risk
Factors of this Report. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and refinement of these prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements.

Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are
likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to
potentially material change. See also the additional information included in Item 1A of this Report under the risk factors discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to
implement it, on the regulatory environment for PNC and the financial services industry.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high
level of regulatory focus over the last several years are compliance with anti-money laundering laws and the protection of confidential customer information. In addition, at least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there
is an increased focus on fair lending and other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related regulatory reforms include measures aimed at reducing mortgage foreclosures.

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the CFPB, the SEC, the CFTC, other federal and state regulatory
authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could
also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion
is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding
companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets in general.





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5




BANKINGREGULATIONANDSUPERVISION

Capital Regulations

In connection with the 2013 CCAR, PNC filed its capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of September 30, 2012 with the
Federal Reserve on January 7, 2013. PNC expects to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2013 CCAR by March 15, 2013. The Federal Reserve also has
announced that it intends to publish on this date the results of its assessments, including the Federal Reserve’s estimates of the Basel I capital ratios for each of the largest 19 BHCs participating in the 2013 reviews, including PNC, during
the review period under the Federal Reserve’s severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the firm’s proposed base case capital distributions. Prior to this release, the Federal Reserve will release on March 7, 2013 its
estimate of the Basel I capital ratios, as well as its estimate of certain revenue and loss information, for such BHCs under the same supervisory severely adverse scenario but applying the common assumptions concerning capital distributions by firms
established by the Federal Reserve for the stress tests required by Dodd-Frank
(Dodd-

Frank capital action assumptions). PNC also is required to publicly disclose, in March 2013, its estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory
severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the Dodd-Frank capital action assumptions. Federal Reserve regulations also require that PNC and other large bank holding companies conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as
of March 31stand three company-derived
macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario in September.

The Federal banking agencies have requested comment on proposed rules to implement the Basel III capital framework in the United States. These rules have not yet been finalized and remain subject to
change. For additional information on these proposed rules, see Recent Market and Industry Developments in Item 7 and Item 1A – Risk Factors in this Report. PNC’s estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 7.5% at
December 31, 2012, excluding the benefits of the transitional phase-in periods provided by Basel III. This estimate is based on management’s understanding of the Basel III proposed rules issued by the U.S. banking agencies in June
2012 and on available data and information as of December 31, 2012. It also reflects our estimates of PNC’s risk-weighted assets under Basel II (with the modifications proposed in June 2012) and application of the Basel II.5 market risk
rules that became effective on January 1, 2013. Both our Basel II and Basel III estimates are point in time estimates and are subject to further regulatory guidance and clarity, as well as the development, refinement, validation and regulatory
approval of internal models.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent
company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank, N.A. is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of
credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 22 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company
liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section and the Trust Preferred Securities portion of the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements And Variable Interest
Entities section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 14 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Federal Reserve rules provide that a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit
resources to support such banks if necessary. Consistent with the “source of strength”





6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net
income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.
Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2013 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in 2013 will reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share repurchase
programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny. The Federal Reserve also has stated that it expects BHCs that
meet the minimum capital ratio requirements under Basel III during the transition periods provided by Basel III, but that do not meet the fully-phased in Basel III minimum plus capital conservation buffer ratio of 7 percent Tier 1 common (plus any
applicable capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks), to maintain prudent earnings retention policies with a view to meeting this standard in accordance with the phase-in schedule included in the agencies’ proposed Basel III
rules.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLB Act) permits a qualifying bank holding
company to become a “financial holding company” and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates
include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental
thereto” or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. In order to be and remain a financial holding company, a
bank holding company and its subsidiary depository institutions must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity if any of its insured
depository institutions received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).

The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary
broker-dealers, investment advisers, insurance companies and banks, as well as investment companies advised by investment adviser subsidiaries of the financial holding company, also being subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state
“functional” regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business.

As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally
allowed to conduct new financial activities, and PNC is generally permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. In addition, our non-bank subsidiaries
(and any financial subsidiaries of subsidiary banks) are permitted to engage in certain activities that were not permitted for bank holding companies and banks prior to enactment of the GLB Act, and to engage on less restrictive terms in certain
activities that were previously permitted. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities.

In addition, the GLB Act permits national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial
subsidiary.” PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary
in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve. Certain activities, however, are impermissible for a financial subsidiary
of a national bank, including certain insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities, real estate investment or development, and merchant banking.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository
institution and its holding company. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,”
“significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the greater the scope and severity of the
agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only a “well capitalized”
depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an “adequately capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 2012, PNC
Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to the Funding and Capital Sources portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review
section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 22 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. National banks (such as PNC Bank,





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7




N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries generally may engage only in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking, although a financial
subsidiary may engage in a broader range of activities as described above.

Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower, lower
capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company to engage in
new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities.

At December 31, 2012, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated
“Outstanding” with respect to CRA.

Because of PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject to the supervision
and regulation of the Federal Reserve.

FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower
capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative

evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks
in a lower risk category. Under Dodd-Frank, in April 2011, the deposit insurance base calculation shifted from deposits to average assets less Tier 1 capital. This methodology change did not materially impact the premiums due to the FDIC for PNC.

CFPB Regulation and Supervision.Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. for compliance with a
broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to credit card, deposit, mortgage and other consumer financial products and services we offer. In addition, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB
broad authority to take corrective action against PNC Bank, N.A. and PNC as it deems appropriate. The CFPB also has powers that it was assigned in Dodd-Frank to issue regulations and take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices
relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. The agency also has authority to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. These authorities are in
addition to the authority the CFPB assumed on July 21, 2011 under existing consumer financial law governing the provision of consumer financial products and services.

SECURITIESANDDERIVATIVESREGULATION

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and may provide investment advisory services to clients, other PNC affiliates or related entities, including registered
investment companies. Certain of these advisers are registered as investment advisers to private equity funds under rules adopted under Dodd-Frank.

Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization (SRO) for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations
thereunder. An investment adviser to a registered investment company is also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also
are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions.

Over the past several years, the SEC and other regulatory agencies
have increased their focus on the mutual fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




regulatory reforms and are considering additional reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund and broker-dealer industries and
impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries. Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their
service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct
certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In
addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels,
management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

Based on the definition of a “swap dealer” under Title VII, PNC Bank, N.A.
registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer on January 31, 2013. As a result thereof, PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to all of the above-described regulations and

requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC will have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank, N.A.’s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Because of
the limited volume of our security-based swap activities, we have not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The above described requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC Bank, N.A.
and will introduce additional legal risks (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action).

In addition, an investment adviser to private funds or to registered investment companies may be required to register with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator. Registration could impose significant new
regulatory compliance burdens. Presently, we expect our subsidiaries that serve as investment advisers to such entities to be eligible for exemptions from registration as a commodity pool operator.

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA regulation, as
described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, we refer you to the
discussion under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

COMPETITION

We are
subject to intense competition from various financial institutions and from non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other
non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current
environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars.

PNC Bank, N.A. competes for deposits with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9




•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,

•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.

EMPLOYEES

Employees
totaled 56,285 at December 31, 2012. This total includes 50,947 full-time and 5,338 part-time employees, of which 23,331 full-time and 4,563 part-time employees were employed by our Retail Banking business.

SEC REPORTSANDCORPORATEGOVERNANCEINFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange
Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE,
Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file
electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We also make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or
furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as

reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information
at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies
without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL)
exhibit is only available electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is
available on PNC’s corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers
from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet
address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance
Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by sending their requests to George P. Long, III, Chief
Governance Counsel and Corporate Secretary, at corporate headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

INTERNETINFORMATION

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our
corporate website under “About PNC – Investor Relations,” such as Investor Events, Quarterly Earnings, SEC Filings, Financial Information, Financial Press Releases and Message from the Chairman. Under “Investor Relations,”
we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings
releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and replay audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite
public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information.





10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Starting in 2013, PNC will be required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income,
losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios under a supervisory hypothetical severely adverse economic scenario in March of each year and under a PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenario in September of each year, as well as
information concerning its capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. Under these regulations, PNC may be able to satisfy at least a portion of these requirements through
postings on its website, and PNC may elect to do so

without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the sections above in the Investor Relations section of our website.Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as
inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.





The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K11




