ITEM1 –BUSINESS

BUSINESSOVERVIEWHeadquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services
companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, residential mortgage banking and global investment servicing, providing many of our products and services nationally
and others in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. We also provide certain investment
servicing internationally. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated total assets, deposits and shareholders’ equity were $269.9 billion, $186.9 billion and $29.9 billion, respectively.

As described further below and elsewhere in this Report, on December 31, 2008, PNC acquired National City Corporation (National City). Our consolidated
financial statements for 2009 reflect the impact of National City.

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank
acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.

ACQUISITIONOFNATIONALCITYCORPORATION

On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City for
approximately $6.1 billion. The total consideration included approximately $5.6 billion of PNC common stock, $150 million of preferred stock, and cash of $379 million paid to warrant holders by National City.

Following the closing, PNC received $7.6 billion from the US Department of the Treasury (US Treasury) under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008
(EESA) in exchange for the issuance of preferred stock and a warrant. These proceeds were used to enhance National City Bank’s regulatory capital position to well-capitalized in order to continue serving the credit and deposit needs of existing
and new customers. On a consolidated basis, these proceeds resulted in further improvement to our capital and liquidity positions. See Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Preferred Stock below for additional information.

National City, based in Cleveland, Ohio, was one of the nation’s largest financial services companies. In connection with obtaining regulatory
approvals for the acquisition, PNC agreed to divest 61 of National City Bank’s branches in Western Pennsylvania. This divestiture, which included $4.1 billion of deposits and $.8 billion of loans, was completed during the third quarter of 2009.








Additional information regarding our acquisition of National City can be found in Item 7 and Item 8 of this Report.

REPURCHASEOFOUTSTANDINGTARP PREFERREDSTOCK

See Note 19 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report regarding our December 31, 2008, issuance of $7.6
billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series N (Series N Preferred Stock), and the related warrant to the US Treasury under the US Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program.

As approved by the Federal Reserve Board, the US Treasury and our other banking regulators, on February 10, 2010, we redeemed all 75,792 shares of our
Series N Preferred Stock totaling $7.6 billion held by the US Treasury. We used the net proceeds from our February 2010 common stock and senior notes offerings and other funds to redeem the Series N Preferred Stock. We did not exercise our right to
seek to repurchase the related warrant at the time we redeemed the Series N Preferred Stock.

Note 28 Subsequent Events in Item 8 of this
Report has additional information regarding the redemption of the Series N Preferred Stock and the February 2010 common stock and senior notes offerings.

PENDINGSALEOFPNC GLOBALINVESTMENTSERVICING

On February 2, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS), a leading provider of processing,
technology and business intelligence services to asset managers, broker-dealers and financial advisors worldwide, for $2.3 billion in cash. Upon completion of the sale, we expect to report an after-tax gain of approximately $455 million.

We currently anticipate closing the transaction in the third quarter of 2010. Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and
certain other closing conditions. If the sale of GIS has not been completed by November 1, 2010, we will be required, on or before that date, to raise $700 million in additional Tier 1 common capital. We would do this either through the sale of
assets approved by the Federal Reserve Board and/or through the issuance of additional common stock. See Item 1A Risk Factors for further information.

In addition to National City and GIS, we include information on other significant acquisitions and divestitures in Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.

REVIEWOFLINESOFBUSINESSIn the first
quarter of 2009, we made changes to our business organization structure and management reporting in conjunction with the National City acquisition. In addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate
information under the captions Line of Business Highlights, Product Revenue, and

Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include financial and other information by business in Note 27 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were
not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2009 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the same basis but do not
include the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008. As a result of its pending sale, GIS is no longer a reportable business segment.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic
markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and the internet. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia,
Delaware, Washington, DC and Wisconsin.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and
transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets. A key element of our strategy is to expand the use
of alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator for
customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury
management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and
equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and
services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional
Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our
primary geographic markets with certain products and services offered nationally.








Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier provider of financial services
in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to its customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the comprehensive resources of PNC to help
each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and prudent risk and expense management.

Asset Management Groupincludes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and
institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals and their
families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, foundations and unions and charitable endowments located primarily in our geographic
footprint. This segment includes the asset management businesses acquired through the National City acquisition and the legacy PNC wealth management business previously included in the Retail Banking segment.

Asset Management Group is focused on becoming one of the premier bank-held wealth and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The
business seeks to deliver high quality advice and investment management to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a full array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to
service its clients, grow its business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential
Mortgage Bankingdirectly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within our retail banking footprint and also originates loans through joint venture partners. Mortgage
loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate and are made to borrowers in good credit standing. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third party standards, and sold, servicing
retained, to primary mortgage market conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the
Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) program. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing first mortgage loans for various investors. Certain loans originated through our joint ventures are serviced
by a joint venture partner. In November 2009, we reduced our joint venture relationship related to our legacy PNC business and rebranded the former National City Mortgage as PNC Mortgage.



Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer
relationships, providing quality investment loans, and delivering acceptable returns under a moderate risk profile. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion, and cost-effective extension of
the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.

BlackRockis the largest publicly traded investment management
firm in the world. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative and cash management separate accounts and funds. In addition,
BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services globally to a broad base of clients.

At December 31, 2009, our share of BlackRock’s earnings was approximately 23%. Our investment in BlackRock is a strategic asset of PNC and a key component of our diversified earnings stream. The ability of BlackRock to grow assets
under management is the key driver of increases in its revenue, earnings and, ultimately, shareholder value. BlackRock’s strategies for growth in assets under management include a focus on achieving client investment performance objectives in a
manner consistent with their risk preferences and delivering excellent client service. The business dedicates significant resources to attracting and retaining talented professionals and to the ongoing enhancement of its investment technology and
operating capabilities to deliver on this strategy.

Distressed Assets Portfolioincludes commercial residential development
loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. These loans require special servicing and management oversight given current market conditions. The majority
of these loans are from acquisitions, primarily National City. Total loans were $18.5 billion at December 31, 2009.

The business
activities of this segment are focused on maximizing the value of the assets while mitigating risk. Business intent drives the inclusion of assets in this business segment. Not all impaired loans are included in this business segment, nor are all of
the loans included in this business segment considered impaired. The fair value marks taken upon our acquisition of National City, the team we have in place and targeted asset resolution strategies help us to manage these assets. Additionally, our
capital and liquidity positions provide us flexibility in a challenging environment to optimize returns on this portfolio for our shareholders.

SUBSIDIARIESOur corporate legal structure at December 31, 2009 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 153 active non-bank








subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.), headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

We merged the charter of PNC Bank Delaware into PNC Bank, N.A. in August 2009 and merged the charter of National City Bank into PNC Bank, N.A. in November 2009. Our non-bank subsidiary, GIS, has a banking
license in Ireland and a branch in Luxembourg, which allow GIS to provide depositary services as part of its business. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.

STATISTICALDISCLOSUREBYBANKHOLDINGCOMPANIESThe
following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:



Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis171Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income170Book Values Of Securities33-37 and 113-117Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities116Loan Types30, 108 and 172Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity174-175Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets67-70, 110 and 172Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale37 and 67-70Summary Of Loan Loss Experience68-70 and 173Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses68-70 and 173Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits171Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More132 and 175Selected Consolidated Financial Data20-21

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

OVERVIEW

PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. You should also
read Note 23 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, included here by reference, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict
permissible activities and investments and require compliance with

protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from bank
subsidiaries and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC),
which results in examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also capital
levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. An examination downgrade by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on
our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the agencies determine, among other things, that such operations are unsafe or
unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our
operations.

We are also subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by virtue of our status as a public company and
due to the nature of some of our businesses.

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are
of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and powers to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications
or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.

Due to the
current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, we anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in
which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), the Credit CARD Act of 2009 (Credit CARD
Act), and the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer
Act. Developments to date, as well as those that come in the future,








have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject that follows is based on
the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change.

On May 7, 2009, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System announced the results of the stress tests conducted by banking regulators under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program with respect to the 19 largest bank holding companies. As a result of this test, the Federal Reserve concluded
that PNC was well capitalized but that, in order to provide a greater cushion against the risk that economic conditions over the next two years are worse than currently anticipated, PNC needed to augment the composition of its capital by increasing
the common shareholders’ equity component of Tier 1 capital. In May 2009 we raised $624 million in new common equity at market prices through the issuance of 15 million shares of common stock. In connection with the Supervisory Capital
Assessment Program, we submitted a capital plan which was accepted by the Federal Reserve.

In light of the economic uncertainties and the
actions taken by Congress, the US Department of the Treasury and other regulatory agencies to address the credit crisis, there is an increased focus by regulators on lending activities by banks and the relationship between those activities and
governmental efforts to improve this situation. Also at least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related
regulatory reforms include measures aimed at limiting mortgage foreclosures.

There has been a heightened focus recently on consumer
protection issues generally, including those related to the protection of confidential customer information and fees assessed on deposits and credit card accounts.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years has been compliance with anti-money laundering rules and regulations.

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, other federal and state regulatory authorities and
self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by
rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accord-

ingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us.

BANKREGULATION

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, we are subject to supervision and regular inspection by the Federal Reserve. PNC Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries are subject to supervision and
examination by applicable federal banking agencies, principally the OCC.

Because of PNC’s voting ownership interest in BlackRock,
BlackRock is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The
principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank N.A. is also
subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 23 Regulatory Matters included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management section and in the “Perpetual Trust
Securities”, “PNC Capital Trust E Trust Preferred Securities”, and “Acquired Entity Trust Preferred Securities” sections of the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and VIEs section of Item 7 of this Report.

Under Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources
to support such bank. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends
unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall
financial condition.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The GLB Act permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a
“financial holding company” and thereby to affiliate with financial companies engaging in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and
dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are determined by
the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000.








The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary
broker-dealers, investment managers, investment companies, insurance companies and banks, also subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their
lines of business.

As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are allowed to conduct new
financial activities or acquire non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. In addition, our non-bank subsidiaries (and any financial subsidiaries of subsidiary banks) are now permitted to engage in certain
activities that were not permitted for banks and bank holding companies prior to enactment of the GLB Act, and to engage on less restrictive terms in certain activities that were previously permitted. Among other activities, we currently rely on our
status as a financial holding company to conduct mutual fund distribution activities, merchant banking activities, and securities underwriting and dealing activities.

In addition, the GLB Act permits national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” In order to qualify to establish or
acquire a financial subsidiary, PNC Bank, N.A. must be “well capitalized” and “well managed” and may not have a less than “satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating. A national bank that is one of the
largest 50 insured banks in the United States, such as PNC Bank, N.A., must also have issued debt (which, for this purpose, may include the uninsured portion of a national bank’s long-term certificates of deposit) with certain minimum ratings.
PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity
that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. Certain activities, however, are impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including insurance under-writing, insurance investments, real estate investment or
development, and merchant banking.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers
to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted assets, the greater
the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only a
“well capitalized” depository institution may accept

brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an “adequately capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At
December 31, 2009, PNC Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to “Funding and Capital Sources” in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 23 Regulatory Matters included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. In addition to the activities that would be permitted to be conducted by a
financial subsidiary, national banks (such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries may engage in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking.

Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management,
controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or
to continue to conduct existing activities.

The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or
substantially all of the assets of any bank or thrift, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or thrift, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or thrift holding
company. When reviewing bank acquisition applications for approval, the Federal Reserve considers, among other things, each subsidiary bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities it serves in accordance with the CRA. Our
ability to grow through acquisitions could be limited by these approval requirements.

At December 31, 2009, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated
“outstanding” with respect to CRA.

FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower
capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary
federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category.








SECURITIESANDRELATEDREGULATION

The SEC, together with either the OCC or the Federal Reserve, regulates our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are also subject to
rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), among others.

Several of our subsidiaries are
registered with the SEC as investment advisers and provide services both directly to clients and to PNC affiliates and related entities, including registered investment companies. Our investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to the requirements
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the SEC’s regulations thereunder. The principal purpose of the regulations applicable to investment advisers is the protection of clients and the securities markets, rather than the
protection of creditors and shareholders of investment advisors. The regulations applicable to investment advisers cover all aspects of the investment advisory business, including limitations on the ability of investment advisers to charge
performance-based or non-refundable fees to clients; record-keeping; operational, marketing and reporting requirements; disclosure requirements; limitations on principal transactions between an adviser or its affiliates and advisory clients; as well
as general anti-fraud prohibitions. These investment advisory subsidiaries also may be subject to state securities laws and regulations.

In
addition, our investment advisory subsidiaries that are investment advisors to registered investment companies and other managed accounts are subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the SEC’s
regulations thereunder, including PNC Capital Advisors, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PNC Bank, N.A. and registered investment advisor. GIS is subject to regulation by the SEC as a service provider to registered investment companies.

Over the past several years, the SEC and other governmental agencies have been investigating the mutual fund and hedge fund industries, including PNC
Capital Advisors, LLC, GIS and other industry participants. The SEC has proposed various rules, and legislation has been introduced in Congress, intended to reform the regulation of these industries. The effect of regulatory reform has, and is
likely to continue to, increase the extent of regulation of the mutual fund and hedge fund industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries.

Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service
providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain
activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing

and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into
account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

Our securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including BlackRock and GIS, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities
in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC and
FINRA regulation, as described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to the supervision and regulation of the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock, we refer you to the discussion
under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

COMPETITION

We are subject to intense
competition from various financial institutions and from non-bank entities that engage in similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including
CLO managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit activities
are subject to pricing pressures and customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars.

PNC Bank, N.A.
competes for deposits with the following:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Savings and loan associations,

•Credit unions,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and private equity activities compete with the following:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Merchant banks,








•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with the following:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.

EMPLOYEESEmployees totaled 55,820 at December 31, 2009. This total includes 49,761 full-time and 6,059 part-time employees. This total also includes 4,450 GIS employees.

SEC REPORTS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other
information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public
Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC also maintains an internet website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information
about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We also make our Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on or through our internet website
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and
bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without

exhibits, or by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available
electronically.

Information about our Board and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s corporate website
at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters
of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, or Personnel and Compensation Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by sending their requests to George P. Long, III, Corporate Secretary, at corporate
headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

INTERNET INFORMATION

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the
internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors in portions of our corporate website, such as the Investor Events and Financial Information areas that you can find under “About PNC – Investor Relations.” In this section,
we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings
releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite
public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the
section above in the Investor Relations section of our website.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address
and web addresses of the SEC and of BlackRock, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part of this Report.








