ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Business Overview

Headquartered
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage
banking, providing many of our products and services nationally. Our primary geographic markets are located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware,
Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At December 31, 2016, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders’ equity were
$366.4 billion, $257.2 billion and $45.7 billion, respectively.

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic
bank andnon-bankacquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of variousnon-bankingsubsidiaries.

Review of Business Segments

In addition to the following information relating to
our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the caption Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in Note 22 Segment Reporting in the
Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to
foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. We periodically refine our internal methodologies as management reporting practices are enhanced. To the extent significant and practicable, retrospective application of new
methodologies is made to prior period reportable business segment results and disclosures to create comparability with the current period. See Note 22 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report
for information on enhancements made in the first quarter of 2015 to our internal funds transfer pricing methodology.

Retail Bankingprovides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment management and cash management
services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, ATMs, call centers, online banking and mobile channels. The branch network is located primarily in
Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina.

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with us. We also seek to deepen
relationships by meeting the broad range of our customers’ financial needs with savings, liquidity, lending, investment and retirement solutions. A strategic priority for us is to redefine the retail banking business in response to changing
customer preferences. A key element of this strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels, with an emphasis on mobile and online banking capabilities, while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In
addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.

Corporate & Institutional Bankingprovides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services
tomid-sizedand large corporations, government andnot-for-profitentities. Lending products include secured and unsecured
loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital
markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, securities, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and equity capital markets advisory related services. We also provide commercial loan servicing and
technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Products and services are generally provided within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking’s strategy is to be the leading relationship-based provider of traditional banking products and services
to its customers through the economic





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K1




cycles. We aim to expand our market share and drive higher returns by growing and deepening customer relationships through solutions-based selling, while maintaining prudent risk and expense
management.

Asset Management Groupprovides personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth
clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions, and trust management and administration for
individuals and their families. Our Hawthorn unit provides multi-generational family planning including estate, financial, tax planning, fiduciary, investment management and consulting, private banking, personal administrative services, asset
custody and customized performance reporting to ultra high net worth families. Institutional asset management provides advisory, custody and retirement administration services. The business also offers PNC proprietary mutual funds. Institutional
clients include corporations, unions, municipalities,non-profits,foundations and endowments, primarily located in our geographic footprint.

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality banking,
trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service our clients, grow the
business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.

Residential Mortgage Bankingdirectly
originates first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized byone-to-four-familyresidential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and either sold with servicing
retained, or held on PNC’s balance sheet. Loan sales are primarily to secondary mortgage conduits of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party
investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 2 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and
included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans, primarily those in first lien position, for various investors and for loans owned by us.

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships and providing quality investment
loans and mortgage servicing opportunities. A strategic focus for us is to transform the home lending process by integrating our mortgage and home equity

lending into a common platform for improved efficiency and a better customer experience. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion and
cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint to serve our customers with home financing needs and offer them our full suite of retail products.

BlackRock, in which we hold an equity investment, is a leading publicly traded investment management firm providing a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and
retail clients worldwide. Using a diverse platform of active and index investment strategies across asset classes, BlackRock develops investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset
class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. BlackRock also offers an investment and risk management technology platform, risk analytics, advisory and technology services and solutions to a broad
base of institutional and wealth management investors. Our equity investment in BlackRock provides us with an additional source of noninterest income and increases our overall revenue diversification. BlackRock is a publicly traded company, and
additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Non-StrategicAssets Portfolioconsists of a consumer portfolio of mainly residential mortgage and brokered home equity loans and lines of credit and a small commercial lending portfolio. We obtained a
significant portion of thesenon-strategicassets through acquisitions of other companies.

Total
business segment financial results differ from total consolidated net income, as presented in Note 22 Segment Reporting in Item 8 of this Report. The impact of these differences is reflected in the “Other” category. “Other”
includes residual activities that do not meet the criteria for disclosure as a separate reportable business, such as gains or losses related to BlackRock transactions, integration costs, asset and liability management activities including net
securities gains or losses, other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities and certain trading activities, exited businesses, private equity investments, intercompany eliminations, most corporate overhead, tax adjustments that are not
allocated to business segments, and differences between business segment performance reporting and financial statement reporting (GAAP), including the presentation of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as the segments’ results
exclude their portion of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.

Effective for the first quarter of 2017, we intend to realign
our segments with how we began managing our businesses in 2017 and we intend to change the basis of presentation of our segments as follows:

•Residential Mortgage Banking will be combined into Retail Banking,





2The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




•Non-StrategicAssets Portfolio will be eliminated and the assets will be moved to Other and
Corporate & Institutional Banking,

•Residential mortgages within Other will be moved to Retail Banking, and

•A portion of business banking will be moved from Retail Banking to Corporate & Institutional Banking.

We also are making certain adjustments to our internal funds transfer pricing methodology. Prior periods will be restated to conform to the new segment
alignment and to our change in methodology.

Subsidiaries

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2016 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 60 activenon-banksubsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank), a national bank headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see
Exhibit 21 to this Report.

Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:



Form 10-K pageAverage Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis167Analysis OfYear-To-YearChangesIn Net
Interest Income168Book Values Of Securities39 and 112-116Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities39 and115-116Loan Types38, 102-103 and169Selected Loan Maturities AndInterest Sensitivity172Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets55-61,90-93,101-109and 170Potential Problem Loans55-61Summary Of Loan Loss Experience59-60,109-111 and171Allocation Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses59-60 and172Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits167Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More172Selected Consolidated Financial Data30-31Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2016,
2015, and 2014 were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.

Supervision and Regulation

PNC is a bank holding company (BHC) registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 18 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products
and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability
to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The consequences of noncompliance with these, or other applicable laws or regulations, can include
substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among
other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal
bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated
entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations fail to comply
with applicable law or regulations or are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the
conduct, growth and profitability of our operations.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is responsible for examining PNC Bank
and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or
provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB’s examinations (which are not publicly





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K3




available) also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of
substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements.

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public
company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our banking and securities businesses, as well as those conducted by BlackRock, with operations outside the United States are
also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.

As a regulated financial
services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad
enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.

We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial
services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the
significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change. See also the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of
this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the regulatory environment for us and
the financial services industry.

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years are
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, capital and liquidity management, cyber-security, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, the protection of confidential customer information, and the
structure and effectiveness of enterprise risk management frameworks. In addition, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other consumer protection issues, including retail sales practices and fee assessment and collection.

New legislation, changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory
organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our

businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial sectors in general, including changes to the laws governing
taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

The new presidential administration has laid out certain regulatory policy objectives
and core principles to guide financial law and regulation in a series of recent executive orders and other actions. For example, the new presidential administration has directed the heads of executive departments and agencies to, among other things,
temporarily suspend rulemaking until a new agency principal nominated by the administration has reviewed and approved any new regulations and to identify two existing regulations for repeal in connection with the issuance of any new rule. The
administration also has announced a set of core principles intended to guide financial regulation, which include, among other things, rebalancing the goals of financial regulation to foster job and economic growth in addition to promoting financial
stability, and that direct the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the heads of the federal agencies that comprise the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), to conduct a review of existing financial laws, regulations, guidance and other
requirements to determine the extent to which these promote the announced core principles. Whether and how these developments may impact the rules and policies applicable to us remains at this point unclear.

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion
is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and supervisory policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions
and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and ournon-customercreditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets and financial system in
general.

Dodd-Frank Act

Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services.
Dodd-Frank requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous new rules and regulations. Among other things, Dodd-Frank established the CFPB and the FSOC, a10-memberinter-agency body that is
charged with identifying and monitoring systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certainnon-bankcompanies deemed to be “systemically important”; provided
for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; required that deposit insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository institution’s assets rather than its
insured deposits; raised the minimum





4The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) to 1.35%; established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the derivatives activities
of financial institutions; prohibited banking entities, after a transition period and subject to certain exceptions and exemptions, from engaging in proprietary trading, as well as acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, sponsoring, and
having certain types of relationships with hedge funds, private equity funds, and other private funds (through provisions commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule”); placed limitations on the interchange fees charged for debit card
transactions; and established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages. Certain of the rules required by Dodd-Frank have not been proposed or finalized.

Banking Regulation and Supervision

Enhanced Prudential Requirements.Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to establish enhanced prudential standards for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as PNC, as well as systemically importantnon-bankfinancial companies designated by the FSOC for Federal Reserve supervision. For such BHCs, these enhanced standards must be more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to BHCs with less than $50 billion in assets, and must
increase in stringency based on the Federal Reserve’s assessment of a BHC’s risk to the financial system. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and refinement of these enhanced prudential
standards.

The Federal Reserve has adopted enhanced prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management,
which took effect for us on January 1, 2015. These rules, among other things, require that covered BHCs conduct liquidity stress tests at least monthly, maintain a contingency funding plan and sufficient highly liquid assets to meet net stresscash-flowneeds (as projected under the company’s liquidity stress tests) for 30 days, and establish certain oversight and governance responsibilities for the chief risk officer, the board of directors, and the
risk committee of the board of directors of a covered company. These standards also require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum15-to-1debt to equity ratio on a BHC
if the FSOC determines that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such adebt-to-equityrequirement
would mitigate such risk.

In March 2016, the Federal Reserve requested comment on a revised set of proposed rules that would establish a
single counterparty credit limit for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. Under the proposed rules, the aggregate net credit exposure by us, including our subsidiaries, to any single, unaffiliated counterparty, including
its subsidiaries, would be calculated on a daily basis and could not exceed 25 percent of our Tier 1 capital. The proposed limit would cover credit exposure resulting from, among other

transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, purchases or investments in securities, and derivative transactions, although certain exposures, including,
among others, exposures to the United States government, are excluded. Compliance with the proposed rules would be required one year after the effective date. The comment period on the proposal closed on June 3, 2016. The proposed rule, if
finalized, would not have a material impact on our credit relationships with third parties.

The Federal Reserve continues to work towards
finalizing the early remediation requirements that it must establish under Dodd-Frank for BHCs with more than $50 billion in total assets. In addition, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to continue to develop the set of enhanced
prudential standards that apply to large BHCs in order to further promote the resiliency of such firms and the U.S. financial system. For additional information see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning. PNC and PNC Bank are subject to the regulatory capital requirements
established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. The foundation of the agencies’ regulatory capital rules is the international regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee),
the international body responsible for developing global regulatory standards for banking organizations for consideration and adoption by national jurisdictions. In July 2013, the U.S. banking agencies adopted rules to implement the new
international regulatory capital standards established by the Basel Committee, known as “Basel III”, as well as to implement certain provisions of Dodd-Frank. Many provisions arephased-inover a
period of years, with the rules generally fullyphased-inas of January 1, 2019.

The rules
adopted in July 2013 generally have three fundamental parts. The first part, referred to as the Basel III capital rule, among other things, narrowed the definition of regulatory capital, requires banking organizations with $15 billion or
more in assets (including PNC) tophase-outtrust preferred securities from Tier 1 regulatory capital, establishes a new common equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital regulatory requirement for banking organizations,
and revises the capital levels at which PNC and PNC Bank would be subject to prompt corrective action. These rules also require that significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as mortgage servicing rights
and deferred tax assets, be deducted from CET1 regulatory capital to the extent such items individually exceed 10%, or in the aggregate exceed 15%, of the organization’s adjusted Basel III CET1 regulatory capital. Our common stock investment in
BlackRock is treated as a significant common stock investment in an unconsolidated financial institution for these purposes. The Basel III capital rule also significantly limits the extent to which minority interests in consolidated





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K5




subsidiaries (including minority interests in the form of REIT preferred securities) may be included in regulatory capital. In addition, for banking organizations, like PNC, which are subject to
the advanced approaches (described below), the rule includes other comprehensive income related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans as a component of CET1 capital. The Basel III capital rule became
effective on January 1, 2014 for PNC and PNC Bank, although many provisions arephased-inover a period of years.

The Basel III rule generally divides regulatory capital into three components: CET1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together with CET1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital.
CET1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, qualifying minority interest and, for advanced approaches banking organizations, accumulated other comprehensive income, less the deductions required to be made from CET1 capital. Additional
Tier 1 capital generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less the deductions required to be made from additional Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated
debt, less any required deductions from Tier 2 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from total capital.

The second major part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the standardized approach and materially revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel I. Under the
regulatory capital rules, a banking organization’s risk-based capital ratios are calculated by allocating assets and specifiedoff-balancesheet financial instruments into risk-weighted categories (with
higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk), which are used to determine the amount of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets. The standardized approach for risk-weighted
assets takes into account credit and market risk. To calculate risk-weighted assets under the standardized approach for credit risk, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts ofoff-balancesheet items are generally multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages set forth in the rules and that increase as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset increases. For certain
types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure. The standardized approach took effect on
January 1, 2015 for PNC.

The third part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the advanced approaches and materially
revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel II. The Basel II framework, which was adopted by the Basel Committee in 2004, seeks to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk

management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. Advanced approaches risk-weighted assets take into account credit, market and operational risk and rely to a
significant extent on internal models. The advanced approaches modifications adopted by the U.S. banking agencies became effective on January 1, 2014, and generally apply to banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank) that have
$250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or that have $10 billion or more inon-balancesheet foreign exposure. Prior to fully implementing the advanced approaches to calculate risk-weighted
assets, PNC and PNC Bank must successfully complete a “parallel run” qualification phase. PNC and PNC Bank entered this parallel run qualification phase on January 1, 2013. As discussed further in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report,
the Basel Committee continues to consider additional, significant changes to the international capital framework for banking organizations. The timing of the Basel Committee’s work, the likelihood that these or similar changes would be
implemented by the U.S. banking agencies in the United States, and the implications of any such developments on the U.S. regulatory capital framework (including the advanced approaches and the parallel run qualification period for PNC and PNC Bank)
are not fully known at this time.

As a result of thephase-inperiods included in the Basel III
rules, as well as the fact that we remain in the parallel run qualification phase for the advanced approaches, our regulatory risk-based capital ratios in 2016 were based on the definitions of, and deductions from, regulatory capital under Basel III
(as such definitions and deductions werephased-infor 2016) and the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets. Until we have exited parallel run, our regulatory risk-based Basel III ratios
will be calculated using the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets, and the definitions of, and deductions from, capital under Basel III (as such definitions and deductions arephased-inthrough 2019). Once we exit parallel run, our regulatory risk-based capital ratios will be the lower of the ratios calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. We refer to the capital ratios calculated using thephased-inBasel III provisions as the Transitional Basel III ratios. The Transitional Basel III regulatory capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2016 exceeded the applicable minimum levels in
effect for 2016. For additional information regarding the Transitional Basel III capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2016, as well as the levels needed to be considered “well capitalized”, see the Capital Management
portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report.

The Federal Reserve has adopted rules to apply an additional risk-based
CET1 capital surcharge to U.S. firms identified as globally systemically important banks (GSIBs) using a scoring methodology that is based on five measures of global systemic importance (size, interconnectedness, substitutability,





6The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




complexity, and cross-jurisdictional activity). In addition, in December 2016, the Federal Reserve finalized rules that require U.S. GSIBs and the U.S. operations of foreign-based GSIBs to meet a
new minimum long-term debt requirement and a new minimum total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement. The GSIB surcharge and the new minimum long-term debt and TLAC requirements are subject to a phase in period and will be fully effective on
January 1, 2019. We are not a GSIB based on the methodology described above and, therefore, are not subject to these requirements.

capital-to-assets

phase-in

phased-in

For banking organizations that are subject to the advanced approaches (such as PNC and PNC Bank), these
higher capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer based on U.S. credit exposures of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets (once fullyphased-in).This buffer is currently set at zero in the United States. In September 2016, the Federal Reserve finalized a policy statement on the framework and factors the Federal Reserve would use in setting and
adjusting the amount of the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement,
unless the Federal Reserve determines to establish an earlier effective date. Under thephase-inschedule for the countercyclical capital buffer, the maximum potential countercyclical capital buffer amount is
1.25% in 2017, 1.875% in 2018, and 2.5% in 2019 and thereafter. When fully

phased-inand if the full buffer amount is implemented, covered banking organizations would be required to maintain a risk-based CET1 capital ratio of at
least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a total capital ratio of at least 13% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments.

The regulatory capital framework adopted by the federal banking regulators also requires that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1
capital to average consolidated assets, referred to as the leverage ratio. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%. As of December 31, 2016, the leverage ratios of PNC
and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level.

Banking organizations subject to the advanced approaches (such as PNC and PNC Bank) also
will be subject to a new minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio that becomes effective on January 1, 2018. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into accounton-balancesheet assets as well as certainoff-balancesheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. BHCs with total
consolidated assets of more than $700 billion or assets under custody of more than $10 trillion, as well as the insured depository institution subsidiaries of these BHCs, are subject to a higher supplementary leverage ratio requirement. These
higher supplementary leverage requirements do not apply to PNC or PNC Bank.





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K7




ratios; (ii) the institution’s leverage ratio; and (iii) for the definitions of “adequately capitalized” and “undercapitalized”, the institution’s
supplementary leverage ratio (if applicable) once the supplementary leverage ratio takes effect as a minimum requirement in 2018. For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to the Capital Management portion of the Risk
Management section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 18 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

In addition to these regulatory capital requirements, we are subject to the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, annual capital stress testing requirements and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review (CCAR) process, as well as the annual andmid-yearDodd-Frank capital stress testing (DFAST) requirements of the Federal Reserve (annual andmid-cycle)and the
OCC (annual). As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of BHCs, including PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. For us, this capital adequacy
assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve that describes the company’s planned capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common stock
repurchase programs, or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments, during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the Federal Reserve under different hypothetical
macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory adverse scenario and severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve can object to our capital plan for qualitative or quantitative reasons. If the Federal Reserve
objects to a BHC’s capital plan, the BHC cannot make capital distributions without specific Federal Reserve approval.

In evaluating
capital plans of BHCs with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, $10 billion or more inon-balancesheet foreign exposure, or $75 million or more in nonbank assets, the Federal
Reserve considers a number of qualitative factors, which have become increasingly important in the CCAR process in recent years. The Federal Reserve’s supervisory expectations for the capital planning and stress testing processes at large and
complex BHCs, including PNC, are heightened relative to smaller and less complex BHCs. In assessing a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes, the Federal Reserve considers whether the BHC has sound and effective governance to
oversee these processes. The Federal Reserve’s evaluation focuses on whether a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes are supported by a strong risk management framework to identify, measure and assess material risks and that
provides a strong foundation to capital planning. The Federal Reserve also considers the comprehensiveness of a BHC’s control framework and evaluates a BHC’s policy guidelines for capital planning and assessing capital adequacy. A
BHC’s scenario design

processes and approaches for estimating the impact of stress on its capital position are comprehensively reviewed to ensure that projections reflect the impact of appropriately stressful
conditions, as well as risks idiosyncratic to the BHC, on its capital position. Significant deficiencies in a BHC’s capital planning and stress testing processes may result in a qualitative objection by the Federal Reserve to its capital plan.

From a quantitative perspective, the Federal Reserve considers whether under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including the
supervisory severely adverse scenario, the company would be able to maintain throughout each quarter of the nine quarter planning horizon, even if it maintained its base case planned capital actions, projected regulatory risk-based and leverage
capital ratios that exceed the minimums that are, or would then be, in effect for the company, taking into account the Basel III capital rules and any applicablephase-inperiods. Failure to meet a minimum
regulatory risk-based or leverage capital requirement on a projected stress basis is grounds for objection to a BHC’s capital plan. In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates a company’s projected path towards compliance with the Basel III
regulatory capital framework on a fully implemented basis.

In connection with the 2017 CCAR exercise, we must file our capital plan and
stress testing results using financial data as of December 31, 2016 with the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2017. We expect to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either anon-objectionor
objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2017 CCAR in June 2017.

As part of the CCAR and annual DFAST processes, both we and
the Federal Reserve release certain revenue, loss and capital results from their stress testing exercises. For the 2017 exercises, the Federal Reserve has announced that it intends to publish its supervisory revenue, loss and capital projections for
participating BHCs under the supervisory adverse and severely adverse macro-economic scenarios using the common assumptions concerning capital distributions established by the Federal Reserve in its DFAST regulations (DFAST capital action
assumptions), as well as capital ratio information using the company’s proposed base case capital actions. Within 15 days after the Federal Reserve publishes its DFAST results, we also are required to publicly disclose our own estimates of
certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the DFAST capital action assumptions.

Federal Reserve regulations also require that we and other large BHCs conduct a separate,mid-cyclestress test using financial data as of June 30 and three
company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. For the 2017mid-cyclestress test cycle, we must publish
our results in the period between October 5 and November 4, 2017.





8The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




The Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule provides that a BHC must resubmit a new capital plan prior to
the annual submission date if, among other things, there has been or will be a material change in the BHC’s risk profile, financial condition, or corporate structure since its last capital plan submission. Under the “de minimis” safe
harbor of the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, we may make limited repurchases of common stock or other capital distributions in amounts that exceed the amounts included in our most recently approved capital plan subject to certain
conditions, including that the Federal Reserve does not object to the additional repurchases or distributions. Such distributions may not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of Tier 1 capital for the CCAR 2016 planning period, and 0.25% of Tier 1 capital
for the CCAR 2017 planning period and thereafter.

In September 2016, Governor Daniel Tarullo of the Federal Reserve outlined in a speech
additional changes that the Federal Reserve is considering to its capital plan rule and the CCAR process, including the establishment of a new “stress capital buffer”. Governor Tarullo indicated that such potential changes would be issued
for public comment at a later date and, accordingly, the precise nature of these additional potential changes is not known at this time.

Basel III Liquidity and Other Requirements. The Basel III framework adopted by the Basel Committee included short-term liquidity standards
(Liquidity Coverage Ratio or LCR) and long-term funding standards (Net Stable Funding Ratio or NSFR).

The rules adopted by the U.S. banking
agencies to implement the LCR took effect on January 1, 2015. The LCR rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and high quality, unencumbered liquid assets (HQLA) to meet estimated net
liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions prescribed in the rules (net cash outflow). A company’s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the haircuts and
limitations in the rule, divided by its net cash outflow, with the quotient expressed as a percentage.

Top-tierBHCs (like PNC) that are subject to the advanced approaches for regulatory capital purposes, as well as
any subsidiary depository institution of such a company that has $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets (such as PNC Bank), are subject to the full LCR (rather than the less stringent modified LCR). The minimum required ratio under
the Full LCR was subject to aphase-inschedule, with the minimum in 2016 being 90%, increasing to the fullyphased-inminimum of 100% effective January 1, 2017.
Effective July 1, 2016, PNC and PNC Bank were required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis. An institution required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis must promptly provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the
minimum if its LCR is below the minimum for three consecutive business days.

The Federal Reserve has adopted a rule that requires large BHCs, including PNC, to publicly disclose
certain quantitative and qualitative measures of theirLCR-relatedliquidity profile. These disclosures include major components used to calculate the LCR (e.g., HQLA, cash outflows and inflows for the
consolidated parent company), and a qualitative discussion of the BHC’s LCR results, including, among other things, key drivers of the results, composition of HQLA and concentration of funding sources. We will be required to make these
disclosures starting with the second quarter of 2018.

The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities
of banking organizations over aone-yeartime horizon. The Basel Committee, in October 2014, released the final NSFR framework. In April 2016, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC requested comment on proposed
rules that would implement the NSFR in the United States. The proposed rules would require a covered BHC to calculate its NSFR as the ratios of its available stable funding (ASF) and its required stable funding (RSF) amount, each as defined in the
proposed rules, over aone-yearhorizon. The regulatory minimum ratio for all covered banking organizations is 100 percent. For BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more, but less than
$250 billion, andon-balancesheet foreign exposure of less than $10 billion, the RSF amount is scaled by a factor of 70 percent. The proposal also includes requirements for quarterly
quantitative and qualitative NSFR disclosures. The requirements of the proposed rules would take effect January 1, 2018. The comment period on the proposed rules closed on August 5, 2016. Although the impact on us will not be fully known
until the rules are final, we have taken several actions to prepare for implementation of the NSFR and we expect to be in compliance with the NSFR requirements when they become effective.

The Federal Reserve also has adopted new liquidity risk management requirements for BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets (like PNC). These rules require covered BHCs to, among
other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC’s30-dayliquidity
stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets detailed requirements.

For additional discussion of regulatory liquidity
requirements, please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report.

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank. PNC
Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of PNC. PNC Bank is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent
holding company and





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K9




non-bankaffiliates as discussed in Note 18 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further
information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 10
Borrowed Funds and Note 15 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Federal Reserve rules
provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Dodd-Frank requires that the Federal Reserve jointly adopt new rules with the OCC and the
FDIC to implement this source of strength requirement. These joint rules have not yet been proposed. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking,
a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the
corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2017 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in
2017 to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share repurchase programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projectedafter-taxnet income available to common
shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny.

The Federal Reserve and the OCC have provided guidance regarding incentive and other
elements of compensation provided to executives and other employees at financial services companies they regulate, both as general industry-wide guidance and guidance specific to select larger companies, including PNC. Acting under provisions of
Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC and two other regulatory agencies have jointly proposed regulations to, among other things, prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk-taking.
These regulations were initially proposed in 2011 andre-proposedin 2016 and have not been finalized, with the timing of final adoption and the form of any final regulations uncertain. Regulation of
compensation provided by us to our executives and other employees, whether through guidance or rules and regulations, could hamper our ability to attract and retain quality employees.

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The GLB Act permits a qualifying BHC to become a “financial holding company” and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies
engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by

the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be
“complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. In order to be and remain a financial holding company, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must be “well
capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new activity, if any of its insured
depository institutions received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant
banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities. As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, ournon-banksubsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial
activities, and we are generally permitted to acquirenon-bankfinancial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, withafter-the-factnotice to the Federal Reserve.

In addition,
the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance
agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury,
in consultation with the Federal Reserve (other than insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities and merchant banking). In order to have a financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution
affiliates must be and remain “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new
financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the CRA.

If a financial holding company or a national bank with a financial subsidiary fails to continue to meet the applicable “well capitalized” or “well managed” criteria, the financial
holding company or national bank must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve or the OCC, respectively, that, among other things, identifies how the capital or management deficiencies will be corrected. Until such deficiencies are
corrected, the relevant agency may impose limits or conditions on the activities of the company or bank, and the company or bank may not engage in, or acquire a company engaged in, the types of expanded activities only permissible for a financial
holding company or financial subsidiary without prior approval of the relevant agency.





10The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




Volcker Rule.In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, SEC and CFTC issued final
rules to implement the “Volcker Rule” provisions of Dodd-Frank. The Volcker Rule’s prohibitions and restrictions generally became effective on July 21, 2015. The rules prohibit banks and their affiliates (collectively, banking
entities) from trading as principal on a short-term basis in securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments, but also include several important exclusions and exemptions from this prohibition. These exclusions and exemptions, for
example, permit banking entities, subject to a variety of conditions and restrictions, to trade as principal for securities underwriting, market making and risk-mitigating hedging purposes, and to trade in U.S. government and municipal securities.
We currently do not expect the proprietary trading aspects of the final rules to have a material effect on our businesses or revenue. However, the limits and restrictions of the Volcker Rule could, depending on the agencies’ approach to
interpreting the rules, cause us to forego engaging in hedging or other transactions that it would otherwise undertake in the ordinary course of business and, thus, to some extent, may limit our ability to most effectively hedge our risks, manage
our balance sheet or provide products or services to our customers.

The rules also prohibit banking entities from acquiring and retaining
ownership interests in, sponsoring, and having certain relationships with private funds (such as, for example, private equity and hedge funds) that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the
exemptions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act (covered funds). Again there are exemptions from these restrictions which themselves are subject to a variety of conditions. Moreover, the rules prohibit banking entities from engaging in
permitted trading or covered fund activities if the activity would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties, result in a material exposure by the banking entity to
a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy, or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States. Banking entities, like PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total assets
are required to establish and maintain an enhanced compliance program designed to ensure that the entity complies with the requirements of the final rules.

In July 2016, the Federal Reserve, exercising authority granted by the Volcker Rule, granted all banking entities until July 21, 2017 to conform their investments in, and relationships with, covered
funds that were held or existed prior to December 31, 2013 (legacy covered funds) to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to provide banking entities up to an additional 5 years to conform investments
in and other relationships with covered funds that qualify as “illiquid funds” under the Volcker Rule and the Federal Reserve’s implementing regulation. In February 2017, PNC received such an additional 5 year period, ending on
July 21, 2022, to conform or divest its interests in approximately $300 million illiquid legacy covered funds.

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. Laws and regulations limit the
scope of our permitted activities and investments. The federal banking agencies also possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company, and the Federal Reserve and the
OCC have the ability to take enforcement action against PNC and PNC Bank, respectively, to prevent and remedy acts and practices that the agencies determine to be unfair or deceptive.

Sections 23A and 23B of the
Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve’s implementing regulation, Regulation W, place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates (for example between PNC Bank, on the one hand, and
PNC and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the other hand). In general, section 23A and Regulation W limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and any single affiliate to 10 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus,
limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and all its affiliates to 20 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, prohibit a bank from purchasinglow-qualityassets from an
affiliate, and require certain covered transactions to be secured with prescribed amounts of collateral. Section 23B generally requires that transactions between a bank and its affiliates be on terms that are at least as favorable to the bank as the
terms that would apply in comparable transactions between the bank and a third party. Dodd-Frank amended section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K11




bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative transaction with the affiliate. The Federal Reserve has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions.

break-up

At December 31, 2016, PNC Bank had an
“Outstanding” rating with respect to the CRA.

Based on the Federal Reserve’s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal
Reserve has indicated that it considers BlackRock to be a subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act due to PNC’s current and historical ownership interest in, and other relationships with, BlackRock and, thus, subject to the supervision and
regulation of the Federal Reserve.

FDIC Insurance and Related Matters. PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to deposit
premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that
have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank’s holdings
of assets or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that
of competing banks in a lower risk category.

Federal banking laws and regulations also apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on
insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a “well capitalized” insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In addition, brokered deposits are
generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR.

Dodd-Frank mandated an increase in the
Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) from 1.15% to 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and required that insured depository institutions with $10 billion or more in total
assets, such as PNC, bear the cost of the increase. As a result, the FDIC adopted rules that impose a deposit insurance assessment surcharge (Surcharge) on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more
(including PNC Bank), which became effective on July 1, 2016. The Surcharge will continue in effect until the reserve ratio reaches 1.35 percent (estimated by the FDIC to occur before the end of 2018).

Recovery and Resolution Planning. Dodd-Frank requires BHCs that have $50 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, to periodically
submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress.
The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on a covered BHC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company’s plan is not credible or would not
facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an
acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. The FDIC also requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, to periodically submit a resolution plan to the FDIC that includes, among other
things, an analysis of





12The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. Depending on how
the agencies conduct their review of the resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs. PNC and PNC Bank
are required to submit their next resolution plans by December 31, 2017.

The OCC has adopted final enforceable guidelines under section
39 of the FDI Act that establish standards for recovery planning for insured national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including PNC Bank. These guidelines require a covered bank to develop and maintain a
recovery plan that, among other things, identifies a range of options that could be undertaken by the covered bank to restore its financial strength and viability should identified triggering events occur. For PNC Bank the compliance date for these
guidelines is January 1, 2018. The recovery plan guidelines are enforceable in the same manner as the other guidelines the OCC has established under section 39 of the FDI Act.

CFPB Regulation and Supervision. Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations,
including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services we offer. The CFPB also has the power to issue regulations and take
enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or
service. In addition to these authorities, on July 21, 2011, and pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the CFPB assumed authorities under other consumer financial laws in effect on that date governing the provision of consumer financial products and
services.

The CFPB has engaged in extensive rulemaking activities, including adopting comprehensive new rules on mortgage related topics
required under Dodd-Frank, including borrowerability-to-repayand qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards and loan originator compensation standards.
In October 2015, broad new regulations took effect that substantially revised the disclosures we provide to prospective residential mortgage customers. These regulations, among other things, require the provision of new disclosures near the time a
prospective borrower submits an application and three days prior to closing of a mortgage loan. The CFPB is also engaged or expected to engage in rulemakings that impact products and services offered by PNC Bank, including regulations affecting
prepaid cards, overdraft fees charged on deposit accounts and arbitration and class-action waiver provisions included in customer account agreements. If adopted, it is possible that CFPB regulations in

these or other areas could reduce the fees that we receive, alter the way we provide our products and services, or expose us to greater private litigation risks.

Securities and Derivatives Regulation

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC.

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and may provide investment advisory services to clients, other of our
affiliates or related entities, including registered investment companies.

Broker-dealer subsidiaries are registered with the SEC and subject
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related regulations. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Investment adviser
subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related regulations. Our investment adviser subsidiary that serves as adviser to registered investment companies is also subject to the requirements of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 and related regulations. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions.

Over the past several years, the SEC and other regulatory agencies have increased their focus on the asset management, mutual fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted
regulatory reforms and are considering additional reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund, investment adviser and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance
obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries. Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service providers, a
determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and
an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect our ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a
broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and
disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.

Title VII of Dodd-Frank imposes comprehensive and significant regulations on the activities of
financial institutions that are active in the U.S.over-the-counterderivatives and





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K13




(pre-execution)

e.g.

As PNC Bank is registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC, it is
subject to the regulations and requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC (and for certain delegated responsibilities, the National Futures Association) has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank’s derivatives
and foreign exchange businesses. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap activities, PNC Bank has not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The regulations and requirements applicable to swap dealers will
collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC Bank and introduces additional legal risks (including as a result of newly applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action).

BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA regulation, and a
federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, we refer you to the discussion under the
“Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form10-K,which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Regulations of Other Agencies

In
addition to regulations issued by the federal banking, securities and derivatives regulators, we also are subject to regulations issued by other federal agencies with respect to

Competition

We are subject to
intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions andnon-bankentities that can offer a number of similar products and services without
being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.

PNC Bank competes for deposits and/or loans with:

•Other commercial banks,

•Savings banks,

•Credit unions,

•Consumer finance companies,

•Leasing companies,

•Othernon-banklenders,

•Financial technology companies,

•Treasury management service companies,

•Insurance companies, and

•Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.

Our variousnon-bankbusinesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with:

•Commercial banks,

•Investment banking firms,

•Collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers,

•Hedge funds,

•Mutual fund complexes,

•Merchant banks,





14The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K




•Insurance companies,

•Private equity firms, and

•Other investment vehicles.

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with:

•Investment management firms,

•Large banks and other financial institutions,

•Brokerage firms,

•Financial technology companies,

•Mutual fund complexes, and

•Insurance companies.

Loan
pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration
as a result of intense competition for deposits and investments. Competitors may seek to compete with us through traditional channels (such as physical locations) or primarily through internet or mobile channels. We include here by reference the
additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in the Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.

Employees

Employees totaled 52,006 at December 31, 2016. This total includes
49,360 full-time and 2,646 part-time employees, of which 21,535 full-time and 2,269 part-time employees were employed by our Retail Banking business.

SEC Reports and Corporate Governance Information

We are subject to the
informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is001-09718.You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.You can obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference
Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.

The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that
contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices
of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

We make our Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the

SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish it to, the SEC. Our corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services
at800-982-7652or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at800-843-2206or viae-mailat investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits
where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically.

Information about our Board of Directors and its
committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition,
any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal
accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board of Directors’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on our corporate
website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to PNC’s Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at The Tower at PNC Plaza, 300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2401. Copies will be provided
without charge to shareholders.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”

Internet Information

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at
www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under “About Us – Investor Relations.” We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating to the public information that may
be relevant to investors.

We generally post the following under “About Us – Investor Relations” shortly before or
promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases, and supplemental financial information, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements,
presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and





The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. –Form 10-K15




access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events
several days prior to the call or event. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same
information. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking andnon-GAAPfinancial information, and we provide
GAAP reconciliations when we includenon-GAAPfinancial information. Where applicable, we provide GAAP reconciliations for such additional information in materials for that event or in materials for other
prior investor presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports.

We are required to provide additional public disclosure
regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios under supervisory andPNC-developedhypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios, as well as information concerning our capital
stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. We are also required to make certain additional regulatory capital-related public disclosures about our capital structure, risk
exposures, risk assessment processes, risk-weighted assets and overall capital adequacy, including market risk-related disclosures, under the regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Under these regulations, we may satisfy
these requirements through postings on our website, and we have done so and expect to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC.

Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings with the SEC includes information relating to our corporate governance and annual communications from our
chairman to shareholders.

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we
have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.

