
10-K


                                   FORM 10-K 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One) 
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
       ACT OF 1934   [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended              September 1, 1994
                         ----------------------------------------------

                                           OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from                   to
                               ------------------  --------------------
Commission file number              1-10658
                      -------------------------------------------------

                             Micron Technology, Inc.
                             -----------------------
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                                  75-1618004
- - ----------------------------------------           ---------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of	                   (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)	                    Identification No.)

2805 East Columbia Road, Boise, Idaho	               83706-9698
- - ----------------------------------------           ---------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)	       (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code	 (208) 368-4000
                                                   ---------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
       Title of each class             Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, par value $.10 per share	       New York Stock Exchange
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                  None
                         ------------------------
                              (Title of Class)

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter 
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) 
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
                                                                      ---   ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant 
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.[   ]

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates 
of the registrant, based upon the closing price of such stock on 
September 1, 1994, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was 
approximately $3.1 billion.  Shares of Common Stock held by each officer 
and director and by each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding 
Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be 
affiliates.  This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a 
conclusive determination for other purposes.

The number of outstanding shares of the registrant's Common Stock as of 
September 1, 1994, was 101,896,582.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
    Portions of the Proxy Statement for registrant's 1994 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders to be held on January 30, 1995, are incorporated by 
reference to Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                                   PART I
Item 1. Business

General

     Micron Technology, Inc., is a Delaware holding company with the 
following principal operating subsidiaries: Micron Semiconductor, Inc., 
Micron Custom Manufacturing Services, Inc., and Micron Computer, Inc. 
These subsidiaries' operations principally serve the computer, 
telecommunications, and office automation industries. As used in this 
Annual report on Form 10-K, the term "company" means Micron Technology,
Inc., and its subsidiaries.

     Micron Semiconductor, Inc. ("MSI"), the primary operating subsidiary of 
Micron Technology, Inc., designs, manufactures, and markets 
semiconductor memory components primarily for use in various computer 
applications. MSI's products include Dynamic Random Access Memories 
("DRAM"s), Static RAMs ("SRAM"s), specialty DRAMs, and specialty SRAMs. 
Micron Custom Manufacturing Services, Inc., specializes in the custom 
manufacture of complex circuit board assemblies and the recovery and 
test of nonstandard semiconductor memory components. Micron Computer, 
Inc., develops, assembles, and markets high-performance, memory-
intensive personal computers.

     Additional subsidiaries include: Micron Communications, Inc., which is 
engaged in research and development of technologies related to radio 
frequency identification products; Micron Construction, Inc., which 
provides construction management services for facility owners and 
developers; Micron Display Technology, Inc., which is engaged in 
research and development of technologies related to flat panel field 
emission displays; Micron Investments, Inc., which makes investments in 
publicly held securities; Micron Quantum Devices, Inc., which is engaged 
in research and development of nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices; 
and Micron Systems Integration, Inc., which designs, manufactures, and 
markets semiconductor testing equipment, including AMBYX(registered) 
Intelligent Test and Burn-in systems, and high throughput device loading and 
unloading equipment.

Products

     The company's product strategy is focused primarily on the design, 
development, and manufacture of semiconductor memory products for 
standard and custom memory applications, with various packaging and 
configuration options, architectures, and performance characteristics.

     (a) Dynamic Random Access Memory. DRAMs are semiconductor devices which 
store digital information in the form of bits and provide high speed 
storage and retrieval of data. Manufacture of the company's DRAM 
products utilizes proprietary advanced complimentary metal-oxide-silicon 
("CMOS") process technologies. DRAMs are the highest density, lowest 
cost per bit, random access memory component available, and are the most 
widely used semiconductor memory components in most computer systems. 
Demand for the company's products has recently benefited primarily from 
strong market conditions for personal computers and increasingly memory-
intensive software applications. The company's primary product during 
1994 was the 4 Meg DRAM, which sells in multiple configurations, speeds, 
and package types.  The company is currently pursuing internal qualification 
of its 16 Meg DRAM in a 300 mil package, which is expected to be the preferred 
market package, and is beginning to transfer the 64 Meg DRAM from the pilot 
line to the manufacturing area. The 256 Meg DRAM is in the early stages 
of development (see "Research and Development"). Efficient DRAM 
production requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing 
techniques. The company is engaged in an ongoing effort to enhance its 
production processes to reduce the die size of existing products and 
increase capacity utilization. Smaller die sizes and higher production 
yields reduce manufacturing costs. Development of Video RAMs beyond the 
company's current 2 Meg generation has been terminated, as the company 
pursues development of more cost-effective memory products for graphics 
applications. DRAM sales, including specialty DRAMs, represented 
approximately 73%, 72%, and 79% of total company net sales in fiscal 
1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.

     (b) Static Random Access Memory. SRAMs perform memory functions much the 
same as DRAMs; however, unlike DRAMs, SRAM memory cells are not required 
to be electronically refreshed, which generally increases the speed at 
which they operate and simplifies system designs. The company's SRAM 
family focuses on the high-performance sector of the SRAM market, which 
requires very high speed access to memory. SRAMs include more complex 
electronic circuitry than DRAMs, resulting in higher per bit production 
costs. The market for high-performance SRAMs has grown with the number 
of applications that require a "buffer" or "cache" of high speed memory 
between the central processing unit and the main DRAM-based memory. The 
company manufactures its current SRAM products utilizing CMOS process 
technologies. The company currently sells 64K, 256K, and 1 Meg SRAMs in 
a variety of configurations, speeds, and package types, and has a 4 Meg 
SRAM under development. SRAM sales represented approximately 8%, 14%, 
and 18% of total company net sales in fiscal 1994, 1993, and 1992, 
respectively.
 
     (c) Board-level products. The company manufactures and markets a 
variety of memory-intensive module and complex printed circuit board 
products, all of which utilize semiconductor memory components. The 
company's custom manufacturing efforts are focused on providing a full 
range of turnkey manufacturing services, including design layout and 
product engineering, materials procurement, inventory management, 
quality assurance, and just-in-time delivery. The company's board-level 
products are assembled utilizing surface mount technology ("SMT") that 
can accommodate a high density of memory components. Revenue from sales 
of board-level products reached approximately 7% of consolidated net 
sales in fiscal 1994.

     (d) Personal Computers. The company established a personal computer 
manufacturing operation in fiscal 1992 focusing on high-performance, 
memory-intensive personal computer systems. Revenue from sales of 
personal computers constitute an increasing percentage of total net 
sales and comprised approximately 8% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 
1994.

Marketing and Customers

     The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by rapid 
technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, 
difficult product transitions, relatively short product life cycles, and 
volatile market conditions. These circumstances historically have made 
the semiconductor industry highly cyclical, particularly in the market 
for DRAMs, which are the company's primary products.

     The company's products are essentially interchangeable with, and have 
similar functionality to, products offered by the company's competition. 
Customers for the company's semiconductor memory products include most 
major domestic computer manufacturers and other customers in the 
computer, telecommunications, and office automation industries. The 
company markets products worldwide through independent sales 
representatives, distributors, and direct sales personnel.
Sales representatives serve on a commission basis and obtain orders 
subject to final acceptance by the company. Shipments against accepted 
orders are made directly to the customer by the company. Distributors 
carry the company's products in inventory and typically sell a variety 
of products, including competitors' products. Under the company's 
distribution agreements, distributors may be entitled to price rebates 
on inventory if the company lowers the price of its products, and to 
rights to return certain company products.

     Many of the company's customers require a thorough review or 
"qualification" of new products and processes. In some instances, 
qualification may take six months or longer. As the company diversifies 
its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing products, 
acceptance of these products and processes may be inhibited by this 
qualification procedure.There can be no assurance that new products or 
processes will be qualified for purchase by existing customers.

     The company sells products in both domestic and international markets. 
Sales to Compaq Computer Corporation approximated 11% of net sales in 
fiscal 1994 and 10% in fiscal 1993. No customer's sales individually 
comprised 10% or more of net sales in fiscal 1992. Export sales totaled 
approximately $471 million for fiscal 1994, including approximately $248 
million to the Far East and $159 million to Europe. Export sales 
approximated $251 million and $162 million for fiscal years 1993 and 
1992, respectively. Export sales are primarily in United States 
currency. The company incurs import duties on sales into Europe of up to 
14% of the product value. The company's subsidiaries have sales offices 
in the United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore, and Taiwan.

     The company markets its custom manufacturing services through a direct 
sales force that interfaces with independent sales representatives and, 
to a lesser extent, original equipment manufacturers. Board level 
products are also marketed directly to existing DRAM and SRAM component 
customers.

     The company's personal computers are marketed primarily through direct 
advertising. Sales have historically been made through mail and 
telephone orders and through a single retail outlet. Increasingly, sales 
are made through industrial distributors and value-added resellers.

     Consistent with industry practice, the company typically provides a 
limited warranty that its products are in compliance with specifications 
existing at the time of delivery. All other warranties are typically 
disclaimed. Liability for a stated warranty period is usually limited to 
replacement of defective items or return of amounts paid.

Backlog

     The rate of booking new orders varies from month to month and depends 
upon the scheduling practices of individual customers. Cyclical industry 
conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, 
fixed-price contracts.  Orders for the company's primary products are 
typically entered into with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to 
reflect market conditions at the delivery date. For the foregoing reasons, 
and because of the possibility of


customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders 
without significant penalty, the company does not believe that its 
backlog, as of any particular date, is firm or that it is a reliable 
indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.

Research and Development

     Rapid technological change and intense price competition place a premium 
on new product and process development efforts. The company's continued 
ability to compete in the memory market will depend in part on its 
ability to continue to develop technologically advanced products and 
processes, of which there can be no assurance. Research and development 
is being performed in strategic areas related to the company's 
historical semiconductor expertise. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain 
Factors" and "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements - Contingencies".

     Internal qualification is under way on the 16 Meg DRAM in a 300 mil 
package, which is expected to be the preferred market package. Internal 
qualification typically occurs at the end of the development cycle 
before initial production quantities are released for qualification by 
major customers. The company's research and development efforts on the 
64 Meg DRAM have progressed and the company is beginning to transfer a 
prototype part from the pilot line to the manufacturing area for further 
product development and evaluation. Additional research and development 
efforts are focused primarily on design and development of the 256 Meg 
DRAM and 4 Meg SRAM. Manufacturing efficiencies from new product and 
process development are incorporated into the manufacture of existing 
products where cost reductions can be realized.

     The company has entered into various research and development cost-
sharing contracts with the Advanced Research Projects Agency ("ARPA") 
aggregating approximately $21 million to pursue multi-year development 
of an advanced 16 Meg SRAM process, a flat panel field emission display, 
and alternative semiconductor materials. The company is also researching 
and developing technologies related to radio frequency identification 
products and nonvolatile memory devices. Research and development 
expenditures were $83 million, $57 million, and $48 million in 1994, 
1993, and 1992, respectively.

Patents and Licenses

     As of September 1, 1994, the company owned 557 United States patents 
relating to the use of its products and processes. In addition, the 
company has numerous United States and foreign patent applications 
pending. There can be no assurance that patents will ever be issued for 
such applications or that any issued patents will be determined to be 
valid.  The company intends to continue to seek patent protection on any 
of its significant patentable technology.

     The company has entered into several cross-license agreements with 
third parties. The agreements require one-time and/or periodic royalty 
payments and expire at various times. A significant portion of the one-
time payments were capitalized and are being amortized over the shorter 
of the estimated useful life of the technology, the patent term, or the 
term of the agreement. Royalty and other product and process technology 
expenses were $128 million, $78 million, and $45 million in fiscal 1994, 
1993, and 1992, respectively. It may be necessary or advantageous in the 
future for the company to obtain additional patent licenses or to renew 
existing license agreements, several of which expire in the next fiscal 
year. The company is unable to predict whether these license agreements 
can be obtained or renewed on terms acceptable to the company.

     Periodically, the company is made aware that technology used by the 
company in the manufacture of some or all of its products may infringe 
on product or process technology rights held by others. An adverse 
decision on infringement of patents may have a material adverse effect 
on the company's financial position or results of operations, and may 
require material changes in production processes or products. For 
additional discussion of product and process technology issues, see 
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements - Contingencies".

Competition

     The company's semiconductor memory operations experience intense 
competition from a number of substantially larger foreign and domestic 
companies, including Fujitsu, Ltd., Goldstar Electron, Co., Ltd., 
Hitachi, Ltd., Hyundai Electronics, Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric 
Corp., Motorola, Inc., NEC Corp., Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., Texas 
Instruments, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation. The company has captured a 
very small percentage of the semiconductor memory market and may be at a 
disadvantage in competing against these larger manufacturers with 
significantly greater capital resources, larger engineer/employee bases, 
and more diversified product lines which may provide long-term 
advantages in research and new product development and better enable 
them to withstand periodic downturns in the semiconductor market. In 
addition, the company believes its competition has sufficient resources 
and manufacturing capacity to influence market pricing.


     As has occurred in the past in reaction to improved market conditions, 
many of the company's competitors are adding new facilities designed to 
use 8-inch wafers, which have approximately 84% greater usable surface 
area than the 6-inch wafer currently used by the company. The company 
believes many competitors are currently achieving significantly lower 
yields for their 16 Meg DRAM products than would be expected when such 
products mature. Yield improvements by these competitors would 
dramatically increase worldwide semiconductor memory capacity. Excess 
supply as a result of increased semiconductor manufacturing capacity, 
adverse market conditions, or currency fluctuations resulting in a 
strengthening dollar against the yen, could result in downward pricing 
pressure. A decline in the current favorable product pricing would have 
a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations.

     The company's custom manufacturing operations compete against numerous 
domestic and offshore contract manufacturers, including such companies 
as Avex, Benchmark, DOVAtron, Jabil, SCI, and Solectron. In addition, 
the company competes against the in-house manufacturing capabilities of 
its existing customers as well as with certain large computer 
manufacturers, including DEC and IBM. Many of the company's custom 
manufacturing competitors have substantially greater manufacturing, 
financial, and marketing resources dedicated to custom manufacturing. 
These resources and the competitors' multiple domestic and overseas 
manufacturing locations in close geographic proximity to the customer 
base, may place the company's limited custom manufacturing operations at 
a competitive disadvantage.

     The company's personal computer operations experience intense 
competition from a number of domestic and foreign personal computer 
manufacturers, particularly from those who also market personal computer 
systems through direct distribution channels. The company's principal 
personal computer competitors include Compaq Computer Corporation, Dell 
Computer Corporation, and Gateway 2000, Inc. Personal computer products 
are differentiated based primarily on price, performance, reliability, 
service and support. As a result of competitive pricing pressures, the 
margins realized on the company's personal computer products are 
substantially lower than the margins currently realized by the company's 
primary semiconductor memory products.

Manufacturing

     Semiconductor memory manufacturing cost is primarily a function of 
circuit size (since the potential number of good circuits per wafer 
increases with reduced circuit size), number of mask layers, and the 
yield of acceptable die produced on each wafer. Other contributing 
factors are wafer size, number of fabrication steps, costs and 
sophistication of the manufacturing equipment, package type, equipment 
up time, process complexity, and cleanliness. The manufacture of the 
company's semiconductor products is a complex process and involves a 
number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly, burn-in, 
and final test.

     The company's principal semiconductor memory manufacturing facility 
includes two 6-inch wafer fabrication lines equipped with diffusion 
tubes, photolithography systems, ion implant equipment, chemical vapor 
deposition reactors, sputtering systems, plasma and wet etchers, and 
automated mask inspection systems. The production facility operates in 
12-hour shifts, 24 hours per day, and 7 days per week (in three or four 
day shift cycles) to reduce down time during shift changes, and seeks to 
reduce fabrication costs further through 100% utilization of fabrication 
capacity. Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean 
environment to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting 
contaminants.  Notwithstanding the highly controlled manufacturing operation, 
equipment does not consistently perform flawlessly, and minute impurities, 
defects in the photomasks, or other difficulties in the process may cause a 
substantial percentage of the wafers to be rejected or individual 
circuits to be nonfunctional. The success of the company's manufacturing 
operations will be dependent largely on the ability to minimize such 
impurities and to maximize yield of acceptable, high-quality circuits. 
In this regard, the company employs rigorous quality controls throughout 
the manufacturing, screening, and testing processes.

     After fabrication, each silicon wafer is separated into individual 
circuits. Functional circuits are connected to external leads by 
extremely fine wire and are assembled into plastic packages. Each 
completed package is then inspected, sealed, and tested. The assembly 
process uses high speed automatic systems such as wire bonders, as well 
as semiautomatic plastic encapsulation and solder systems. The company 
tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, 
performs high temperature burn-in on finished products, and conducts 
numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production 
flow. In addition, through the utilization of its proprietary AMBYX line 
of intelligent test and burn-in systems, the company simultaneously 
conducts circuit testing of all die during the burn-in process, thereby 
providing improved quality and reliability data and reduced time and 
cost of testing.


     The company may convert some or all of its 6-inch wafer fabrication 
lines to 8-inch processing capabilities over the next several years. 
Significant capital expenditures would be required for the conversion 
and there can be no assurance that the conversion can be accomplished 
without disruption of production. Several other semiconductor 
manufacturers are also adding significant manufacturing capacity. All 
semiconductor memory manufacturers compete for and are dependent upon a 
limited number of sophisticated equipment suppliers. The cyclical nature 
of the industry often results in extended lead times for equipment 
deliveries. There can be no assurance the company will not encounter 
delays in the company's currently planned expansion as a result of 
limited availability of equipment.

     The company's custom manufacture of board-level products involves the 
attachment of various electronic components, such as memory components 
and processors, to a printed circuit board. Nearly all of the board-
level products assembled by the company are assembled utilizing SMT, in 
which the component leads are soldered to the printed circuit board 
rather than being inserted into holes as in pin-through-hole technology. 
In-circuit testing verifies that components have been properly inserted 
and that the electrical circuits are complete. Functional and 
environmental tests determine if the board or system assembly is 
performing to customer specifications.

     Component recovery efforts conducted by the company's custom 
manufacturing operations involve the testing and grading of components 
not meeting full industry specifications to determine their highest 
level of functionality. These devices are placed in applications in 
which the functionality meets or exceeds customer requirements, such as 
PCs and peripherals, telephone answering machines, electronic games, 
laser printers, facsimile machines, and cellular telephones.

     The company's personal computers are designed to maximize performance of 
each system utilizing extensive DRAM and SRAM memory. Personal computers 
are assembled to standard and unique customer specifications on an 
integrated production line. Components, subassemblies, and software are 
obtained from a wide range of PC industry suppliers. Each personal 
computer is subjected to a burn-in and test process to ensure high-
quality performance on delivery.

Availability of Raw Materials

     Raw materials utilized by the company generally must meet exacting 
product specifications. The company is generally able to arrange for 
multiple sources of supply, but the number of suppliers capable of 
delivering certain raw materials is very limited. Many semiconductor 
manufacturers are adding new facilities designed to use 8-inch wafers. 
The level of both 6-inch and 8-inch wafers available for semiconductor 
memory production is partially dependent on how readily wafer suppliers 
can increase capacity or create additional capacity to match the demand 
for 8-inch wafers without creating shortages in the supply of 6-inch 
wafers. Other materials used in the manufacture of the company's 
products may experience declines in availability due to the overall 
increase in worldwide semiconductor manufacturing. Although shortages 
have occurred from time to time and lead times have been extended on 
occasion in the industry, the company has not experienced any 
significant production interruption as a result of difficulty in 
obtaining raw materials to date.  Interruption of any one raw material 
source could negatively impact the company's operations.

Environmental Compliance

     Government regulations impose various environmental controls on the 
discharge of chemicals and gasses used in the manufacturing process. The 
company believes that its activities conform to present environmental 
regulations. While the company has not experienced any materially 
adverse effects on its operations from environmental regulations, there 
can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not impose the 
need for additional capital equipment or other compliance requirements. 
Additionally, the extensive process required to obtain permits for 
expansion of the company's facilities may impact how quickly the company 
can respond to increases in market demand.

Employees

     As of September 1, 1994, the company had approximately 5,450 full-time 
employees, including approximately 4,530 in the semiconductor memory 
manufacturing operations, 440 in the custom manufacturing services 
operations, and 270 in the personal computer manufacturing operations. 
Employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level 
of utilization of the company's fabrication, assembly, and test 
facilities, as well as on research and development and product and 
process development activities. Many of the company's employees are 
highly-skilled, and the company's continued success will depend in part 
upon its ability to retain such employees. None of the company's 
employees are represented by a labor organization, the company has never 
had a work stoppage, and the company considers its employee relations to 
be satisfactory.


     
Executive Officers of the Registrant
     The executive officers of the company and their ages as of September 1, 
1994 are as follows:




Background of Executive Officers

     Joseph L. Parkinson, a co-founder of Micron Technology, Inc., served as 
its President and a director from July 1980 through January 1986, when 
he was named Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.

     James W. Garrett joined Micron Technology, Inc., in April 1985 as Sales 
Manager. In January 1986, he became Vice President, Sales and Marketing 
and held that position until July 1988, when he was named Executive Vice 
President. He was elected to the Board of Directors in August 1988, and 
served as Vice Chairman of the Board from April 1991 until July 1992, 
when he was named President and Chief Operating Officer.

     Reid N. Langrill joined Micron Technology, Inc., in March 1984 as a 
financial planner. From December 1986 until July 1988, he served as 
Controller. In July 1988, he was named Vice President, Finance, 
Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer and served in that position until 
May 1989. He served as Vice President, Business Units from August 1989 
until December 1989 when he was named Vice President, Finance, and Chief 
Financial Officer. In July 1992, Mr. Langrill was elected to the Board 
of Directors and was also named Treasurer.

     Kipp A. Bedard joined Micron Technology, Inc., in November 1983 as an 
accountant and held various management responsibilities until he was 
appointed Manager of Investor Relations in June 1988. Mr. Bedard held 
that position until April 1990 when he was named Vice President and 
Manager of Investor Relations. From July 1992 to January 1994, Mr.
Bedard served as Vice President, Public Relations for Micron 
Semiconductor, Inc. In January 1994, he was named Vice President, 
Investor Relations for Micron Technology, Inc.

     Nancy M. Self joined Micron Technology, Inc., in February 1988 as a 
benefits specialist. In July 1988, she was named Benefits Manager and 
served in that position until July 1989, when she was named Risk 
Manager. In March 1993, she was named Vice President, Administration.

     Steven R. Appleton joined Micron Technology, Inc., in February 1983 and 
served in various manufacturing management positions until April 1988 
when he was named Director of Manufacturing. He was appointed Vice 
President, Manufacturing in August 1989 and served in that position 
until April 1991 when he was appointed President and Chief Operating 
Officer of Micron Technology, Inc. He was elected to the Board of 
Directors in April 1991. Mr. Appleton served in these positions until 
July 1992, when he assumed responsibilities as Chairman of the Board, 
President, and Chief Executive Officer for Micron Semiconductor, Inc. In 
May 1994, Mr. Appleton was re-elected to the Board of Directors of 
Micron Technology, Inc.

     Tyler A. Lowrey joined Micron Technology, Inc., in July 1984 as a senior 
process engineer. In March 1986, he became a Process Research 
Development/Device Group Manager and was promoted to Vice President, 
Process Research and Development, and Assistant Technical Officer in 
September 1986. In April 1990, he was named Vice President, Research and 
Development. Mr. Lowrey was appointed to the Board of Directors of 
Micron Technology, Inc., in August 1990. Mr. Lowrey served in these 
positions until July 1992, when he was elected a director and named Vice 
President, Chief Technical Officer for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Larry L. Grant joined Micron Technology, Inc., in January 1985 and 
served as General Counsel until July 1985, when he was named Vice 
President and General Counsel. Mr. Grant served in this position until 
July 1992, when he was named Vice President, General Counsel and 
Secretary for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Thomas M. Trent joined Micron Technology, Inc., in July 1980 as a senior 
design engineer. From August 1986 to April 1990, Mr. Trent served as 
Vice President, Research and Development, and Chief Technical Officer, 
at which time he was named Vice President and Manager of DRAM Design. In 
June 1991, he assumed responsibilities of all DRAM products and was 
named Vice President and Manager of DRAM Products Group. Mr. Trent 
served in these positions until July 1992, when he was named Vice 
President, DRAM Products Group for Micron Semiconductor, Inc. In April 
1993, he was named Vice President for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Edward J. Heitzeberg joined Micron Technology, Inc., in January 1984 as 
Information Systems Manager. In March 1986, he became Senior Staff 
Engineer and served in that capacity until June 1986, when he was named 
Vice President, Quality. Mr. Heitzeberg served in this position until 
July 1992, when he was named Vice President, Quality for Micron 
Semiconductor, Inc.

     Norman L. Schlachter joined Micron Technology, Inc., in March 1987 as 
Treasury Manager. From October 1988 until May 1989, he served as 
Assistant Treasurer, at which time he was named Vice President, Finance, 
and Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer. In December 1989, he was 
named Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Schlachter served in these 
positions until July 1992, when he was named Vice President and 
Treasurer for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.



      Robert M. Donnelly joined Micron Technology, Inc., in September 1988 
and served in various manufacturing management positions until August 
1989, at which time he was appointed Vice President, Business Units. 
From April 1990 to June 1991, Mr. Donnelly served as Vice President and 
Manager of DRAM Products Group. In June 1991, he was named Vice 
President and Manager of SRAM Products Group. Mr. Donnelly served in 
this position until July 1992, when he was named Vice President, SRAM 
Products Group for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Eugene H. Cloud joined Micron Technology, Inc., in January 1985 as an 
applications engineer. In June 1985, he was named Applications Manager. 
He served in that position until June 1986, when he was named Marketing 
Manager. In April 1990, he was named Vice President, Semiconductor 
Marketing. Mr. Cloud served in this position until July 1992, when he 
was named Vice President, Marketing for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Donald D. Baldwin joined Micron Technology, Inc., in April 1984 and 
served in various manufacturing and sales positions until April 1987, 
when he was named Key Accounts Manager. From April 1990 to May 1991, he 
served as Manager of North American Sales. In May 1991, he was named 
Vice President, Sales. Mr. Baldwin served in this position until July 
1992, when he was named Vice President, Sales for Micron Semiconductor, 
Inc.

     Kenneth G. Smith joined Micron Technology, Inc., in November 1987 as a 
senior diffusion engineer and held various positions in manufacturing 
until he was named Fab I/II Manager in May 1989. In July 1992, Mr. Smith 
was named Vice President, Operations for Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

     Wilbur G. Stover, Jr., joined Micron Technology, Inc., in June 1989 as 
an accounting manager. In February 1990, Mr. Stover was named Controller 
where he served until July 1992, when he was named Vice President, Finance, 
and Chief Financial Officer of Micron Semiconductor, Inc.

Item 2. Properties

     The company's principal semiconductor manufacturing, engineering, 
administrative, and support facilities are located on a 665 acre site in 
Boise, Idaho. All facilities have been constructed since 1981 and are 
owned by the company. The company has 1,245,000 square feet of building 
space at this primary site. Of the total, 263,000 square feet are 
production space, 506,000 square feet are facility support space, and 
476,000 square feet are office and other space. The company's custom 
manufacturing and component recovery operations are housed in a 52,000 
square foot facility also located in Boise, Idaho. In addition, the 
company owns a 128,000 square foot facility and approximately 30 acres 
of land in Nampa, Idaho, housing the company's personal computer 
manufacturing operations.

     The company is in the process of qualifying its newly-constructed 
central implant building at the main Boise site. This facility is 
expected to be qualified for the production of commercial volumes in 
early fiscal 1995. In addition, the company has initiated construction 
of a .25 micron, 8-inch development facility, and an additional assembly 
and test facility encompassing a total of approximately 340,000 square 
feet. The development facility and additional assembly and test facility 
are expected to be operational in fiscal 1995.

     Fixed assets with a book value of approximately $74 million are pledged 
as collateral for outstanding debt and capital leases as of September 1, 
1994. Substantially all of the tangible assets of the company's 
semiconductor memory, and custom manufacturing and component recovery 
operations not otherwise pledged as collateral for other notes payable 
and capital leases are pledged as collateral under the company's bank 
credit agreements.

     A utility-owned power substation and a vendor-owned and operated 
nitrogen production plant, each of which is dedicated for the company's 
use, were constructed on land owned by the company.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

     As of September 1, 1994, there were no material pending lawsuits to 
which the company is a party.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the 
fourth quarter of fiscal 1994.



                                    PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
Matters

Market for Common Stock

     Micron Technology, Inc.'s common stock is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange and is traded under the symbol MU. The following table 
represents the high and low sales prices for the company's common stock 
for each quarter of fiscal 1994 and 1993, as reported by The Wall Street 
Journal. All stock prices presented have been restated to reflect a 5 
for 2 stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend to 
shareholders of record as of April 1, 1994.


Holders of Record

     As of September 1, 1994, there were 2,843 shareholders of record of the 
company's Common Stock.

Dividends

     The company declared and paid cash dividends totaling $0.12 during 
fiscal 1994, and $0.02 during each of fiscal 1993 and 1992. The 
company's Board of Directors further approved a $0.05 per share cash 
dividend to shareholders of record as of September 30, 1994, for payment 
on October 24, 1994. Future dividends, if any, will vary depending on 
the company's profitability and anticipated capital requirements.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

(Amounts in millions, except for per share amounts)

     See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations - Certain Factors" for a discussion of 
material uncertainties which might cause the data reflected herein not 
to be indicative of the company's future financial condition or results 
of operations.

 

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations

     All yearly references are to the company's fiscal years ended September 
1, 1994, September 2, 1993, and September 3, 1992, unless otherwise 
indicated. Fiscal year 1992 contained fifty-three weeks compared to 
fifty-two weeks in fiscal years 1994 and 1993. All tabular dollar 
amounts are stated in millions.

Overview

     The company achieved record sales and net income in 1994 primarily as a 
result of favorable market conditions and increased production of 
semiconductor memory. Net income for 1994 was $400.5 million, or $3.80 
per fully diluted share, on net sales of $1,628.6 million. Fiscal year 
1993's net income was $104.1 million, or $1.03 per fully diluted share, 
on net sales of $828.3 million. Historical per share amounts have been 
restated to reflect a 5 for 2 stock split effected in the form of a 
stock dividend to shareholders of record as of April 1, 1994. During 
fiscal year 1994, the company paid cash dividends totaling $0.12 per 
share. The company's Board of Directors further approved a $0.05 per 
share cash dividend to shareholders of record as of September 30, 1994 
for payment on October 24, 1994. Future dividends, if any, will vary 
depending on the company's profitability and anticipated capital 
requirements.

Results of Operations


     The company's overall success continues to be dependent on the memory 
operations of the company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Micron 
Semiconductor, Inc. Favorable market conditions for memory products in 
1994 resulted in relatively stable pricing. In addition, the company's 
production of semiconductor memory, as measured in megabits, nearly 
doubled in 1994 compared to 1993. The increase in volume of 
semiconductor memory during 1994 was principally due to increased wafer 
capacity, principally as a result of continued expenditures on equipment 
and facilities; improved manufacturing yields resulting from increased 
manufacturing efficiencies; and conversion to further shrinks of 
existing products.

     The company has benefited from market supply and demand relationships 
resulting in relatively stable product pricing for approximately the 
past nine quarters. Pricing per megabit for DRAM products has 
historically declined approximately 30% per year on a long-term trend 
line. While the company expects average selling prices to return to 
their historical long-term declining trend line, market dynamics make 
it difficult to forecast when or how quickly average selling prices will 
fall.

     The company's principal product in 1994 was the 4 Meg DRAM. Volumes for 
specialty DRAMs decreased during 1994 as compared to 1993 as the company 
dedicated more production resources to the 4 Meg DRAM. SRAM net sales 
were higher in 1994 as compared to 1993, but declined as a percentage of 
total net sales to approximately 8% in 1994.  SRAM net sales were 14% and 
18% of total net sales in 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Similar to the factors leading to the increase in net sales comparing 
1994 to 1993, the increase in net sales for 1993 as compared to 1992 was 
principally due to higher volumes of semiconductor memory sold and 
slightly higher average selling prices. Volume increases were achieved 
through die-size reductions and increased manufacturing yields. Selling 
prices, on average, were higher in 1993 as compared to 1992 for 4 Meg 
and 1 Meg DRAM products, but were lower for specialty DRAM and SRAM 
products.


     The company's overall gross margin percentage improved significantly in 
1994 as compared to 1993 due to relatively stable selling prices and 
reductions in cost per unit of memory sold for DRAM products. Reductions 
in costs per unit sold were realized primarily from a combination of 
increased wafer output, yield improvements, die shrinks, and transitions 
to higher density memory products.

     Internal qualification is under way on the 16 Meg DRAM in a 300 mil 
package, which is expected to be the preferred market package. 
Manufacturing yields associated with the 16 Meg DRAM are currently lower 
than those for the company's more mature products. A shift to the 300 
mil package 16 Meg DRAM as the industry's primary product without 
significant improvement in the company's manufacturing yields would have 
a negative impact on the results of operations.
 


     Sales of personal computers, and custom modules and boards accounted 
for approximately 8% and 7%, respectively, of total net sales for 1994. 
Gross margin percentages for such products are substantially lower than 
the gross margins currently realized for the company's primary 
semiconductor products. Should sales of personal computers and custom 
modules and boards increase as a percentage of total net sales, the 
company's overall gross margin percentage would decrease. Sales of 
personal computers for 1993 and 1992 were approximately 4% and 2%, 
respectively. Net sales for custom modules and boards for 1993 and 1992 
were approximately 7% and 8%, respectively.

     Cost of goods sold includes estimated costs of settlement or 
adjudication of asserted and unasserted claims for patent infringement 
prior to the balance sheet date, and costs of product and process 
technology licensing arrangements. The charges for product and process 
technology have remained relatively constant as a percentage of net 
sales across all periods presented. Future product and process 
technology charges may increase, however, as a result of claims that may 
be asserted in the future. See "Certain Factors".

     Similar to the factors leading to the increase in gross margin comparing 
1994 to 1993, the increase in gross margin in 1993 as compared to 1992 
was primarily due to reductions in cost per unit of memory sold realized 
primarily from die shrinks and yield improvements, and slightly higher 
average selling prices for DRAM products. These factors were partially 
offset by increases in amortization of product and process technology 
associated with a higher level of net sales, and by generally lower 
average selling prices for SRAM and specialty DRAM products.


     Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased in 1994 as 
compared to 1993, but decreased as a percentage of net sales. The higher 
level of selling, general, and administrative expenses for 1994 as 
compared to 1993 was principally due to higher personnel costs; 
increased costs incurred in conjunction with the company's action before 
the International Trade Commission and patent litigation, each of which 
has been settled; increased sales commissions based on a higher level of 
net sales; and a higher level of state sales tax. The higher personnel 
costs in 1994 were principally due to an increase in amounts paid under 
the company's profit sharing programs. The increase in selling, general, 
and administrative expenses for 1993 compared to 1992 was principally 
due to a combination of higher personnel costs, increased sales 
commissions, settlement costs for the shareholders' class action 
lawsuit, legal fees associated with the shareholders' suit, and patent 
litigation.


     Research and development expenses, which vary primarily with the number 
of wafers and personnel dedicated to new product and process 
development, were higher for 1994 compared to 1993, but decreased as a 
percentage of net sales.  Efforts in 1994 were focused primarily on 
development of the 16 Meg DRAM, and design and development of the 64 Meg 
DRAM and the 4 Meg and 16 Meg SRAMs. Development of VRAMs beyond the 
company's current 2 Meg generation has been terminated as the company 
pursues development of more cost-effective alternatives for graphics 
applications. The company expects research and development expense in the 
next year to be higher than 1994 as additional resources are dedicated to 
development of the 16 Meg and 64 Meg DRAMs and to design and develop the 256 
Meg DRAM, as well as design and development of new technologies related to 
radio frequency identification products, nonvolatile semiconductor memory 
devices, and flat panel field emission displays.


     The effective tax rate for 1994 was 36% which primarily reflects the 
statutory corporate tax rate and the net effect of state taxation. State 
taxes reflect the utilization of $20 million of investment tax credits. 
The effective tax rate for 1993 and 1992 was 36% and 31%, respectively. 
Effective September 3, 1993, the company adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." 
Adoption of SFAS No. 109 did not have a material effect on the company's 
financial position or results of operations.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

     The company had cash and liquid investments of $433 million as of 
September 1, 1994, representing an increase of $247 million during 1994. 
The company's principal sources of liquidity during 1994 were cash flows 
from operations of $558 million, equipment financing of $126 million, 
issuance of long-term debt of $119 million, and proceeds of $12 million 
from the issuance of common stock in connection with the company's 
employee stock purchase and stock option plans. The principal uses of 
funds in 1994 were $251 million for property, plant, and equipment, $119 
million for repayments of equipment contracts, $46 million for payments 
on long-term debt, $18 million for acquisition and license of product 
and process technology, and $12 million for payments of cash dividends.

     As of September 1, 1994, the company had commitments of approximately 
$290 million for equipment purchases and approximately $28 million for 
the construction of buildings. Anticipated capital expenditures are 
primarily for remodels and upgrades of existing fabrication facilities 
and equipment, including upgrading manufacturing equipment to 8-inch 
wafer processing capability, qualification of a newly constructed 
central implant facility and a .25 micron 8-inch research and 
development facility, and construction of an additional assembly and 
test facility. Completion of these and future projects as currently 
anticipated will require substantial cash resources including 
significant payments out of the company's cash flow from near-term 
operations.

     The company's bank credit agreements provide for borrowings of up to 
$130 million under revolving loans expiring through May 1997. 
Substantially all of the tangible assets of the company's semiconductor 
memory, and custom manufacturing and component recovery operations not 
otherwise pledged as collateral for other notes payable and capital 
leases are pledged as collateral under the agreements. The agreements 
contain certain financial covenants, including a limitation on the 
transfer of funds from consolidated subsidiaries to Micron Technology, 
Inc. The limitation on transfer of funds is not expected to impair the 
ability of the company to meet its cash obligations. As of September 1, 
1994, the company had no borrowings outstanding under the agreements.

     The company believes continuing investments in manufacturing technology, 
facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product 
and process technology are necessary to support future growth, achieve 
operating efficiencies, and maintain product quality. Although external 
sources of cash have been required historically to supplement the 
company's cash flows from operations to fund these ongoing investments, 
the company currently expects that it will be able to fund its near-term 
liquidity needs through cash flows from operations, existing cash and 
liquid investment balances, and equipment financings. Depending on 
overall market conditions, the company may borrow amounts available 
under the bank credit agreements or pursue other external sources of 
liquidity.



Certain Factors

     The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by rapid 
technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, 
difficult product transitions, relatively short product life cycles, and 
volatile market conditions. These circumstances historically have made 
the semiconductor industry highly cyclical, particularly in the market 
for DRAMs, which are the company's primary products. Demand for 
semiconductor memory products has grown, fueled primarily by growth in 
the personal computer industry. Many of the company's competitors are 
adding new facilities designed to process 8-inch wafers which have 
approximately 84% greater usable surface area than the 6-inch wafer 
currently used by the company. Many competitors are believed to be 
running their 16 Meg DRAM manufacturing operations at significantly 
lower yields than would be expected when such products mature. Yield 
improvements by these competitors would dramatically increase 
semiconductor memory capacity. Excess supply as a result of increased 
semiconductor manufacturing capacity, adverse market conditions, or 
currency fluctuations resulting in a strengthening dollar against the 
yen, could result in downward pricing pressure. A decline in the current 
favorable product pricing would have a material adverse effect on the 
company's results of operations.

     The manufacture of the company's semiconductor memory products is a 
complex process and involves a number of precise steps, including wafer 
fabrication, assembly in a variety of packages, burn-in, and final test. 
From time to time, the company has experienced volatility in its 
manufacturing yields, as it is not unusual to encounter difficulties in 
ramping shrink versions of existing devices or new generation devices to 
commercial volumes. The company continues to develop a reduced die size 
16 Meg DRAM in a 300 mil package, which is expected to be the preferred 
market package. The company's net sales and operating results are highly 
dependent on increasing yields at an acceptable rate and to an 
acceptable level, of which there can be no assurance. Future results of 
operations may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to 
transition to future generation products in a timely fashion or at gross 
margin rates comparable to the company's current primary products.

     Periodically, the company is made aware that technology used by the 
company in the manufacture of some or all of its products may infringe 
on product or process technology rights held by others. The company has 
accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of 
settlement or adjudication of asserted and unasserted claims for 
infringement prior to the balance sheet date. Management can give no 
assurance that the amounts accrued have been adequate and cannot 
estimate the range of additional possible loss, if any, from resolution 
of these uncertainties. Resolution of whether the company's manufacture 
of products has infringed on valid rights held by others may have a 
material adverse effect on the company's financial position or results 
of operations, and may require material changes in production processes 
and products. The company has various product and process technology 
agreements expiring in the next fiscal year. The company is not able to 
predict whether these license agreements can be renewed on terms 
acceptable to the company.

 
(This page intentionally left blank)



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                                                        Page
Financial Statements:
    Consolidated Statements of Operations  for...........................16
     Fiscal Years Ended September 1, 1994,
     September 2, 1993, and September 3, 1992

    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 1,.......................17
     1994, and September 2, 1993 

    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'.............................18
     Equity for Fiscal Years Ended September 1,
     1994, September 2, 1993, and September 3, 1992
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for............................19
     Fiscal Years Ended September 1, 1994,
     September 2, 1993, and September 3, 1992

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...........................20

    Report of Independent Accountants....................................28

Financial Statement Schedules as of September 1, 1994, and for Fiscal 
Years Ended September 1, 1994, September 2, 1993, and September 3, 1992, 
are set forth as follows:

    I.  Marketable Securities............................................32

    V.  Property, Plant, and Equipment...................................33

    VI. Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of.....................34
        Property, Plant, and Equipment
    X.  Supplementary Income Statement Information.......................35

     Financial statement schedules and captions other than those included are 
omitted because they are not required or are not applicable, or the 
required information is given in the consolidated financial statements 
including the notes thereto.  Captions and column headings have been 
omitted where not applicable.


Micron Technology, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(Amounts in millions, except for per share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.


Micron Technology, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Dollars in millions, except for par value amount)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Micron Technology, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
(Dollars and shares in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Micron Technology, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Micron Technology, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(All tabular dollar and share amounts are stated in millions)

Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of presentation: The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of Micron Technology, Inc., and its domestic and foreign 
subsidiaries (the "company"). The company develops, manufactures, and 
markets DRAMs, very fast SRAMs, other semiconductor components, board-
level and system-level products, and personal computers. All significant 
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Investments 
in other entities in which the company does not have control are accounted 
for by the cost method. The company's fiscal year ends on the Thursday 
closest to August 31. Fiscal years 1994 and 1993 contained fifty-two weeks 
compared to fifty-three weeks in 1992.

Revenue recognition: Revenue from product sales to direct customers is 
recognized upon shipment. The company defers recognition of sales to 
distributors, which allow certain rights of return and price protection, 
until distributors have sold the products. Net sales include amounts earned 
under cross-license agreements with third parties and amounts received 
under government contracts.

Earnings per share: Earnings per share are computed using the weighted 
average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding.  Common 
equivalent shares result from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock 
options and affect earnings per share when they have a dilutive effect. On 
March 1, 1994, the company's board of directors announced a 5-for-2 stock 
split effected in the form of a stock dividend to shareholders of record as 
of April 1, 1994. A total of 60,942,448 additional shares were issued in 
conjunction with the stock split. The company distributed cash in lieu of 
fractional shares resulting from the stock split. The company's par value 
of $0.10 per share remained unchanged.  As a result, $6.1 million was 
transferred from additional paid-in capital to common stock. All historical 
share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect retroactively the 
stock split.

Financial instruments: Cash equivalents include highly liquid short-term 
investments with original maturities of three months or less, readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash. The amounts reported as cash and 
equivalents, liquid investments, receivables, other assets, accounts 
payable and accrued expenses, and equipment purchase contracts are 
considered to be reasonable approximations of their fair values. The fair 
value estimates presented herein were based on market information available 
to management as of September 1, 1994. The use of different market assumptions 
and/or estimation methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated 
fair value amounts. The reported fair values do not take into consideration 
potential taxes or other expenses that would be incurred in an actual 
settlement.

Financial instruments that potentially subject the company to concentrations 
of credit risk, consist principally of cash, liquid investments, and trade 
accounts receivable. The company invests its cash through high-credit-quality 
financial institutions and performs periodic evaluations of the relative 
credit standing of these financial institutions.  The company, by policy, 
limits the concentration of credit exposure by restricting investments with 
any single obligor, instrument, or geographic area. A concentration of credit 
risk may exist with respect to trade receivables, as substantially all 
customers are affiliated with the computer, telecommunications, and office 
automation industries. The company has a large number of customers worldwide 
on which it performs ongoing credit evaluations and generally does not require 
collateral from its customers. Historically, the company has not experienced 
significant losses related to receivables for individual customers or groups 
of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market. 
Costs include labor, material, and overhead costs, including product and 
process technology costs.

Property, plant, and equipment: Property, plant, and equipment are stated 
at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the 
estimated useful lives of 5 to 30 years for buildings and 2 to 5 years for 
equipment.

Product and process technology: Costs related to the conceptual formulation 
and design of products and processes are expensed as research and development. 
Costs incurred to establish patents and acquire product and process technology 
are capitalized. Capitalized costs are amortized on the units-of-production 
method and on the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated 
useful life of the technology, the patent term, or the agreement, ranging up 
to 15 years.

Foreign currency: The U.S. dollar is the company's functional currency for 
financial reporting.


Liquid Investments

The company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 
115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" as of 
September 1, 1994. Under SFAS No. 115, securities classified as held-
to-maturity are stated at amortized cost. Securities classified as 
available-for-sale and trading are stated at their fair values which 
approximate cost.


Securities classified as held-to-maturity have remaining maturities within 
one year, and securities classified as available-for- sale mature within 
one to three years.

Receivables


 

Product and Process Technology

Amortization of capitalized product and process technology costs charged to 
operations was $40.9 million in 1994; $26.2 million in 1993; and $10.0 
million in 1992. Accumulated amortization was $100.4 million and $59.5 
million as of September 1, 1994, and September 2, 1993, respectively.

Property, Plant, and Equipment


Maintenance and repair expenses were $45.9 million in 1994; $38.8 million 
in 1993; and $30.3 million in 1992.

In May 1994, the company purchased approximately 30 acres of land for 
$258,000 for development and use by the company's personal computer 
operation and obtained an option on an additional 40 acres from a director 
of the company.

Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 


Long-Term Debt

The notes payable are collateralized by plant and equipment with a total 
cost of approximately $91.2 million and accumulated depreciation of 
approximately $25.3 million as of September 1, 1994. The company is required 
to maintain certain financial ratios under loan agreements. Equipment 
recorded under capital leases, and the accumulated depreciation thereon, 
were approximately $16.9 million and $8.5 million as of September 1, 1994, 
and $42.6 million and $20.4 million as of September 2, 1993. Maturities of 
long-term debt are as follows:



The company's bank credit agreements provide for borrowings up to $130.0 
million expiring through January 1997.  Substantially all of the tangible 
assets of the company's semiconductor manufacturing, and custom manufacturing 
and component recovery operations not otherwise pledged as collateral for 
other notes payable and capital leases are pledged as collateral under the 
agreements. The agreements contain certain financial covenants, including a 
limitation on the transfer of funds from consolidated subsidiaries to Micron 
Technology, Inc. The limitation on transfer of funds is not expected to impair 
the ability of the company to meet its cash obligations. As of September 1, 
1994, the company had no borrowings outstanding under the agreements.

The estimated fair value of the company's long-term debt as of September 1, 
1994 was $155.6 million, based on a discount rate of 6.50%. The estimated 
fair value of long-term debt was based on interest rates available to the 
company for issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. 
Settlement at the estimated fair values may not be possible due to terms 
and conditions of existing agreements, or may not be a prudent management
decision.

Interest income in 1994 is net of $5.8 million of interest expense. Interest 
expense is net of $4.5 million and $4.2 million of interest income in 1993 
and 1992, respectively.  Construction period interest of $2.6 million; $0.3 
million; and $0.2 million was capitalized in 1994, 1993, and 1992, 
respectively.



Stock Purchase Plans

The company's 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan ("ISO Plan") provides for 
the granting of incentive or nonstatutory stock options.  As of September 1, 
1994, there was an aggregate of 12.4 million shares of common stock reserved 
for issuance of which 9.5 million are committed under the plan. To date, the 
exercise prices of the incentive and nonstatutory stock options have been 
100% and 85%, respectively, of the fair market value of the company's common 
stock on the date of grant.  Options are subject to terms and conditions 
determined by the Board of Directors, and generally are exercisable in 
increments of 20% during each year of employment beginning one year from 
date of grant and expire six years from date of grant.

Option activity under the ISO Plan is summarized as follows:


Options outstanding under the ISO Plan as of September 1, 1994, were at per 
share prices ranging from $2.60 to $42.66.  Options exercised were at per 
share prices ranging from $2.60 to $23.55 in 1994,  $4.25 to $20.28 in 1993, 
and $4.25 to $19.48 in 1992.

The 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan allows eligible employees of the 
company to purchase shares of common stock through payroll deductions. 
The shares can be purchased for 85% of the lower of the beginning or ending 
fair market value of each three-month offering period and are restricted 
from resale for a period of one year from purchase.  Purchases are limited 
to 20% of an employee's eligible compensation.  A total of 1.8 million shares 
are reserved for issuance under the plan, of which 1.0 million shares have 
been issued as of September 1, 1994.

Employee Savings Plan

The company has a 401(k) profit-sharing plan ("RAM Plan") in which 
substantially all employees are participants.  Employees may contribute 
from 2 to 16 percent of their eligible pay to various savings alternatives 
in the RAM Plan.  In fiscal 1994, the company modified the plan to provide 
for an annual match of the first $1,500 of eligible employee contributions, 
and for additional contributions based on the company's financial performance. 
The company's RAM Plan expense was $4.6 million in 1994, $2.4 million in 
1993, and $2.0 million in 1992.

Commitments

As of September 1, 1994, the company had commitments of $289.7 million for 
equipment purchases and $27.9 million for the construction of buildings. 
Future obligations under operating leases are not material to the company's 
operations.

Income Taxes

Effective the first day of fiscal 1994, the company adopted SFAS No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes", which prescribes the liability method of 
accounting for income taxes. Adoption of SFAS No. 109 did not have a material 
effect on the company's financial position or results of operations.  Prior 
years accounted for under SFAS No. 96 have not been restated.




The provision for income taxes consists of the following:


The tax benefit associated with disqualifying dispositions by employees of 
shares issued in the company's stock purchase plans reduced taxes payable 
by $10.7 million for 1994.  Such benefits are credited to additional paid-in 
capital.

A reconciliation between the income tax provision and income tax computed 
using the federal statutory rate follows:



State taxes reflect utilization of $20.1 million of investment tax credits. 
As of September 1, 1994, the company had unused state credits of 
approximately $2.8 million for tax and financial reporting purposes which 
expire through 1999.

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The approximate tax 
effect of temporary differences and carryforwards which give rise to the net 
deferred tax liability are as follows:



During 1993 and 1992, in accordance with SFAS No. 96, deferred income taxes 
were provided for significant temporary differences. The significant 
components of the 1993 deferred tax benefit were $14.5 million for product and 
process technology, reduced by $2.8 million for depreciation and $6.5 million 
for other items. Deferred tax expense for 1992 included product and process 
technology of $3.2 million, depreciation of $1.6 million, and other items of 
$2.0 million.


 
Export Sales and Major Customers

Export sales were $471.0 million, $250.9 million, and $161.7 million in 1994, 
1993, and 1992, respectively. Sales to one personal computer manufacturing 
customer approximated 11% of total net sales in 1994 and 10% of total net 
sales in 1993.

Contingencies

Periodically, the company is made aware that technology used by the company 
in the manufacture of some or all of its products may infringe on product or 
process technology rights held by others. The company has accrued a liability 
and charged operations for the estimated costs of settlement or adjudication 
of asserted and unasserted claims for infringement prior to the balance sheet 
date. Management can give no assurance that the amounts accrued have been 
adequate and cannot estimate the range of additional possible loss, if any, 
from resolution of these uncertainties. Resolution of whether the company's 
manufacture of products has infringed on valid rights held by others may have 
a material adverse effect on the company's financial position or results of 
operations, and may require material changes in production processes and 
products. The company has various product and process technology agreements 
expiring in the next fiscal year. The company is not able to predict whether 
these license agreements can be renewed on terms acceptable to the company.

On March 9, 1994, the company entered into a patent cross-license agreement 
with Texas Instruments, Inc. ("TI"). As a result of this agreement, the 
various patent lawsuits between Micron Semiconductor, Inc., and TI in Idaho, 
Texas, and Delaware were settled. Similar to a prior cross-license agreement 
between the parties which expired in 1992, the company will pay ongoing 
royalties to TI based on sales of DRAMs and other semiconductor devices. 
The company accrued a sufficient amount to pay the royalties related to sales 
for periods from expiration of the previous cross-license to the date of the 
settlement.

On November 13, 1992, Micron Semiconductor, Inc., filed a patent infringement 
action with the United States International Trade Commission ("ITC") against 
Goldstar Electron Company, Ltd., and Goldstar Electron America, Inc.
(collectively, "Goldstar"), and Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., Ltd., 
and Hyundai Electronics America, Inc. (collectively, "Hyundai"). The company 
has since entered into patent cross-license agreements with Goldstar and with 
Hyundai. The ITC action against Goldstar and Hyundai was dismissed.

On November 20, 1992, Thorn EMI North America, Inc. ("Thorn"), filed suit 
against Micron Technology, Inc., and MSI in the federal district court in 
Wilmington, Delaware, alleging infringement of four of Thorn's patents.  On 
December 4, 1993, the parties entered into a settlement agreement dismissing 
the lawsuit.

The company is currently a party to various other legal actions arising out 
of the normal course of business, none of which are expected to have a 
material effect on the company's financial position or results of operations.


Quarterly Financial and Market Information (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except for per share amounts)



The company declared and paid cash dividends totaling $0.12 and $0.02 per 
share in fiscal years 1994 and 1993, respectively. The company's Board of 
Directors further approved a $0.05 per share cash dividend to shareholders of 
record as of September 30, 1994, for payment on October 24, 1994.  Future 
dividends, if any, will vary depending on the company's profitability and 
anticipated capital requirements. As of September 1, 1994, the company had 
2,843 shareholders of record.

Net sales for the fourth quarter of 1993 includes $8.4 million from licensing 
product and process technology.

 

Report of Independent Accountants

The Shareholders and Board of Directors 
Micron Technology, Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial statements and financial statement 
schedules of Micron Technology, Inc., and subsidiaries listed in the index on 
page 15 of this Form 10-K. These financial statements and financial statement 
schedules are the responsibility of the company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and 
financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, 
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Micron 
Technology, Inc., and subsidiaries as of September 1, 1994, and September 2, 
1993, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows 
for each of the three years in the period ended September 1, 1994, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our 
opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered 
in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present 
fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be included 
therein.

As discussed in the contingencies note to the consolidated financial 
statements, management can give no assurance that the amounts accrued as of 
September 1, 1994, for estimated costs of settlement or adjudication of 
asserted and unasserted claims for infringement of product and process 
technology rights held by others, have been adequate, nor can management 
estimate the range of additional possible loss, if any, from resolution of 
these uncertainties.

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

Boise, Idaho 
September 22, 1994



Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure

    None.

                                 PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Certain information concerning the registrant's executive officers is 
included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" 
following Part I, Item 1 of this report. Other information required by 
Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be contained in the registrant's Proxy 
Statement which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission within 120 days after September 1, 1994, and is incorporated 
herein by reference.



                                  PART IV
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules -- 
see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements - Contingencies".



Exhibit numbers from Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 2-93343) 
retained, where applicable.

(b)Reports on Form 8-K:

The registrant did not file any Reports on Form 8-K during the quarter 
ended September 1, 1994.


                                SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in 
the City of Boise, State of Idaho, on the 22nd day of September, 1994.

                                     MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                              By     /s/ Reid N. Langrill
                                     -----------------------
                                     Reid N. Langrill, Vice President, 
                                     Finance, Treasurer, and
                                     Chief Financial Officer
                                     (Principal Financial and Accounting 
                                     Officer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this Annual Report has been signed below by the following persons on 
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates 
indicated.


                             MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                                  Schedule I
                              Marketable Securities
                              (Dollars in millions)


                             MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
                                 Schedule V
                        Property, Plant, and Equipment
                             (Dollars in millions)



                              MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
                                    Schedule VI
                    Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of
                          Property, Plant, and Equipment
                              (Dollars in millions)


                           MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
                                Schedule X
                  Supplementary Income Statement Information
                           (Dollars in millions)



                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS




