ITEM 1.    Business

Business Overview

HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. We are a
self-administered, Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") organized in 1985. We are headquartered in Long Beach, California, with offices in Nashville, Tennessee and San Francisco,
California. We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate, and provide financing to healthcare providers. Our portfolio is comprised of investments in the following five
healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) life science, (iii) medical office, (iv) post-acute/skilled nursing and (v) hospital. We make investments
within our healthcare segments using the following five investment products: (i) properties under lease, (ii) debt investments, (iii) developments and redevelopments,
(iv) investment management and (v) DownREITs.

The
delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that
the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the following:

•Compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services;•Specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and•Ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

Our
website address iswww.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the United States
("U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single largest industry in the U.S. based on Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). According to the National Health
Expenditures report dated September 2010 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"): (i) national health expenditures are projected to grow 4.2% in 2011; (ii) the average
compounded annual growth rate for national health expenditures, over the projection period of 2009 through 2019, is anticipated to be 6.3%; and (iii) the healthcare industry is projected to
represent 17.4% of U.S. GDP in 2011.

Senior
citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. According to CMS, on a per capita basis, the 75-year and older segment of the population spends 76% more on
healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and over 200% more than the population average.









U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old



Source:
U.S. Census Bureau, the Statistical Abstract of the United States.

Business Strategy

Our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on
three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification and (iii) conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make investment decisions that are expected to drive profitable growth and create shareholder value. We attempt to position
ourselves to create and take advantage of situations to meet our goals and investment criteria.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare investments diversified by segment, geography, operator, tenant and investment
product. Diversification reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business and allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market
dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of diversification, we monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type,
investment product, geographic location, the number of properties which we may lease to a single operator or tenant, or loans we may make to a single borrower. With investments in multiple segments
and investment products, we can focus on opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole. We may structure transactions as master leases, require operator or
tenant insurance and indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk.

Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative balance sheet is important to our ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach. We strive to
maintain a conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt-to-equity levels and maintaining multiple
sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit facility, access to capital markets and secured debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective institutional joint venture
partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt obligations are primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.









We
finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or arrange
for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing through offerings of equity and debt securities, placement of mortgage debt
and capital from other institutional lenders and equity investors.

We
specifically incorporate by reference into this section the information set forth in Item 7, "2010 Transaction Overview," included elsewhere in this report.

Competition

Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment
companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower
costs of capital than us. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete may also be
impacted by national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new
legislation and population trends.

Rental
and related income from our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with other companies on a number of different levels, including: the
quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians,
staff, referral sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private, federal and state payment
programs as well as the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks associated with
competitive conditions affecting our business, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Healthcare Segments

Senior housing.At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 251 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform. Senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ILFs"), assisted living facilities ("ALFs") and continuing care retirement communities ("CCRCs"), which cater to
different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through
private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Our senior housing property types are further described below:

•Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet
the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with
activities of daily living ("ADL"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. However, residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2010, we had
interests in 45 ILFs.•Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL yet require limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social
activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents.
These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance
for residents with Alzheimer's disease or other









forms
of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 194 ALFs.•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change,
thus allowing residents to "age in place." Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services. CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 12 CCRCs.

Our
Investment Management Platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Ventures II, (ii) HCP Ventures III, LLC, (iii) HCP Ventures
IV, LLC, and (iv) the HCP Life Science ventures. On January 14, 2011, the Company acquired its partner's 65% interest in HCP Ventures II, becoming the sole owner of this 25 senior
housing property portfolio ("HCP Ventures II Acquisition"). For a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our
senior housing segment accounted for approximately 31%, 30% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table
provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2010:

OperatorsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesEmeritus Corporation ("Emeritus")(1)32%10%Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. ("Sunrise")(1)(2)25%8%Brookdale Senior Living Inc. ("Brookdale")18%5%



(1)27
properties formerly operated by Sunrise were transitioned to Emeritus effective November 1, 2010. The percentage of segment revenues and total
revenues for Sunrise excludes revenues from the transitioned properties, which are included in the revenues for Emeritus.(2)Certain
of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with Sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf.
To determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by Sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased
directly to Sunrise.

Life science.At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 102 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other
organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical,
and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems. The facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and
related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology or chemistry
research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us
the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. Our properties are located in well established geographical markets known
for scientific research, including San Francisco, San Diego and Salt Lake City.









Our
life science segment accounted for approximately 22%, 22% and 21% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. The following table
provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2010:

TenantsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesGenentech, Inc. ("Genentech")20%4%Amgen, Inc.18%4%

Medical office.At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 253 medical office buildings ("MOBs"), including 66 facilities owned by
our
Investment Management Platform. These facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services
such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing,
electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built
to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers
(hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. Approximately 83% of our MOBs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses.

Our
medical office segment accounted for approximately 25%, 27% and 27% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, HCA, Inc. ("HCA"), as our tenant, contributed 13% of our medical office segment revenues.

Post-acute/skilled nursing.At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 45 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities
("SNFs"). SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and
revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous
therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain SNFs provide some of the foregoing services on
an out-patient basis. Post-acute/skilled nursing
services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are leased to single
tenants under triple-net lease structures.

In
addition to our interests in SNFs, at December 31, 2010 our post-acute/skilled nursing segment includes debt investments in HCR ManorCare, Inc. ("HCR
ManorCare") and Genesis HealthCare ("Genesis"), with par values of $1.72 billion and $328 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010.

On
December 13, 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the real estate assets of HCR ManorCare, for a total consideration of $6.1 billion
(the "HCR ManorCare Acquisition") that includes: (i) $3.53 billion in cash; (ii) $1.72 billion (par value) reinvestment of our existing debt investments in HCR ManorCare;
and (iii) subject to certain adjustments, 25.7 million shares of our common stock to be issued directly to the shareholders of HCR ManorCare, or, at our option, a cash equivalent of
$852 million. Upon closing, we will acquire 334 HCR ManorCare post-acute, skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. A wholly-owned subsidiary of HCR ManorCare will continue to
operate the assets pursuant to a long-term triple-net master lease supported by a guaranty from HCR ManorCare. For a more detailed description of the HCR ManorCare Acquisition
and these debt investments, see Notes 5 and 7, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our
post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 12%, 10% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The following table











provides
information about our post-acute/skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2010:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare(1)71%9%Covenant Care6%1%Genesis(2)5%1%



(1)Subsequent
to closing the HCR ManorCare Acquisition discussed above, we expect a significant increase in revenues earned from HCR ManorCare.(2)In
September and October 2010, we acquired debt investments in Genesis with an aggregate par value of $328 million. The percentages of segment and
total revenues presented for Genesis reflect revenues for a partial year.

Hospital.At December 31, 2010, we had interests in 21 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our Investment Management
Platform.
Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or "HMOs"), or
through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Our hospitals are all leased to
single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures.

In
addition to our interests in hospitals, our hospital segment also includes mezzanine and mortgage loan investments, which at December 31, 2010 aggregated to
$107 million.

Our
hospital segment accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table
provides information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2010:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCA28%6%(1)Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet")19%2%



(1)Percentage
of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. During the year ended December 31,
2010, we sold our remaining HCA debt investments of $141 million, which contributed $10 million of interest income during 2010.

Investment Products

Properties under lease.We primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. Most of our rents and other earned
income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. However, some of our MOBs and life science facility rents
are structured under gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and
maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance.

Our
ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental
rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases include contractual annual base rent
escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index.

Debt investments.Our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly
or indirectly
own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. Our interests in mortgages are issued by healthcare providers and are generally secured by
healthcare real estate.







Developments and Redevelopments.We generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that
market conditions will support speculative construction. We work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction
management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office
segments. Redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to achieve property stabilization or to change the
primary use of the properties.

Investment Management.We co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as
partnerships or limited liability companies. We target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate.
Predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset
management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture.

Non-managing member LLC ("DownREITs").Our DownREIT structures enable us to acquire and hold real estate in operating DownREIT
limited liability companies ("LLCs"). In connection with the formation of certain DownREIT LLCs, many members contribute appreciated real estate to the DownREIT LLC in exchange for
DownREIT units that can be exchanged at some future date for shares of our stock or, at our election, redeemed for cash. These contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the
pre-contribution gain related to the real estate is not taxed to the contributing member. However, if the contributed real estate is later sold by the DownREIT LLC, the unamortized
pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specifically allocated and taxed to the contributing members. In many of these DownREITs, we entered into indemnification
agreements with our members, under which, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the members is sold by the DownREIT in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the
property was contributed, we will reimburse the affected members for the income taxes associated with the pre-contribution gain that is specifically allocated to the affected member. Since
the formation of our first DownREIT LLC, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of real estate utilizing DownREIT structures.

Portfolio Summary

At December 31, 2010, we managed $14.5 billion of investments in our Owned Portfolio and Investment Management Platform.
At December 31, 2010, we also owned $467 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development.









Owned Portfolio

As of December 31, 2010, our properties under lease and debt investments in our Owned Portfolio consisted of the following
(square feet and dollars in thousands):

Investment(2)Year EndedDecember 31, 2010SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacity(1)PropertiesUnder LeaseDebtTotalInvestmentNOI(3)InterestIncome(4)Senior housing22625,822 Units$4,231,788$—(5)$4,231,788$354,075$364Life science986,508 Sq. ft.3,135,271—3,135,271228,270—Medical office18712,965 Sq. ft.2,226,076—2,226,076181,981—Post-acute/SNF455,331 Beds244,7381,895,538(6)2,140,27637,042121,703Hospital172,368 Beds648,346107,328(5)755,67478,66138,096Total573$10,486,219$2,002,866$12,489,085$880,029$160,163

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our business segments.



(1)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Life science facilities and medical office buildings are
measured in square feet. SNFs and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count.(2)Property
investments represent: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization;
and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. Debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments.(3)Net
Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance
of real estate properties. For the reconciliation of NOI to net income for 2010, refer to Note 14 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)Interest
income represents interest earned from our debt investments.(5)Senior
housing interest income includes amounts earned from secured loans that matured or paid off in 2010. Hospital interest income includes amounts earned
from debt securities that were sold in 2010.(6)At
December 31, 2010, our debt investments with a carrying value of $1.6 billion (par value of $1.72 billion) in HCR ManorCare will be
paid off at closing of the HCR ManorCare Acquisition. For a more detailed description of the HCR ManorCare Acquisition, see Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Developments and Redevelopments

At December 31, 2010, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate
investment of $467 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments.









Investment Management Platform

As of December 31, 2010, our Investment Management Platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and
dollars in thousands):

SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacity(1)HCP'sOwnershipInterestJoint VentureInvestment(2)TotalRevenuesTotalOperatingExpensesSenior housing(3)255,621 Units35%$1,101,270$73,193$15Medical office(4)663,383 Sq. ft.20 - 30%705,53776,37931,755Life science4278 Sq. ft.50 - 63%143,37811,5421,525Hospital4N/A(5)20%81,3827,8941,145Total99$2,031,567$169,008$34,440



(1)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are
measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count.(2)Represents
the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.(3)On
January 14, 2011, we acquired our partner's 65% interest and became the sole owner of this 25 senior housing property portfolio. For additional
information regarding HCP Ventures II see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(4)During
2010, one MOB was placed into redevelopment; its statistics are not included in the medical office information.(5)Information
not provided by the respective operator or tenant.

Employees of HCP

At December 31, 2010, we had 148 full-time employees, none of whom is subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement

Overview

Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations
relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. These regulations are
wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with
this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies
and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators
can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

We
seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and
geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not largely dependent on Medicaid reimbursement for
their revenues. Based on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at December 31, 2010 we estimate that approximately 7% and 4% of the
annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators are dependant on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, respectively.









The
following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

qui tam

or "whistleblower" actions. Many of our operators and tenants are subject to these
laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.

Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the
federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health
maintenance organizations. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will
likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and
inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states
require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process
related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established
and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. Creating a new









pharmaceutical
product requires substantial investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in
demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance
fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of
long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition,
establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the
residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.

Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public
accommodations" as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily
achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by
persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant.
Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an
ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare
facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of
these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as
us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property
damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral
which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.









