ITEM 1.    Business

Business Overview

HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. We are a
self-administered, Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") organized in 1985. We are headquartered in Long Beach, California, with offices in Nashville, Tennessee and
San Francisco, California. We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate, and provide financing to healthcare providers. Our portfolio is comprised of investments in
the following five healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) life science, (iii) medical office, (iv) hospital and (v) skilled nursing. We make investments
within our healthcare segments using the following five investment products: (i) properties under lease, (ii) debt investments, (iii) developments and redevelopments,
(iv) investment management and (v) DownREITs.

The
delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that
the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the following:

•Compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services;•Specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and•Ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

Our
website address iswww.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the United States ("U.S.") Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single largest industry in the U.S. based on Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). According to the National Health
Expenditures report dated January 2010 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"): (i) national health expenditures are projected to grow 5.7% in 2009; (ii) the average
compound annual growth rate for national health expenditures, over the projection period of 2009 through 2019, is anticipated to be 6.1%; and (iii) the healthcare industry is projected to
represent 17.3% of U.S. GDP in 2010.











Senior
citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. According to CMS, on a per capita basis, the 75-year and older segment of the population spends 76% more on
healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and over 200% more than the population average.

U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old



Source:
U.S. Census Bureau, the Statistical Abstract of the United States.

Business Strategy

Our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on
three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification and (iii) conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make investment decisions that are expected to drive profitable growth and create shareholder value. We attempt to position
ourselves to create and take advantage of situations to meet our goals and investment criteria.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare investments diversified by segment, geography, operator, tenant and investment
product. Diversification reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business and allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on individual market
dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of diversification, we monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type,
investment product, geographic location, the number of properties which we may lease to a single operator or tenant, or loans we may make to a single borrower. With investments in multiple segments
and investment products, we can focus on opportunities with the best risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole.

Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative balance sheet is important to our ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach. We strive to
maintain a conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt-to-equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit
facility, access to capital markets and secured debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective









institutional
joint venture partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.

We
may structure transactions as master leases, require operator or tenant insurance and indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security
deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk. We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our
revolving line of credit facility or arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing through offerings of equity and
debt securities, placement of mortgage debt and capital from other institutional lenders and equity investors.

We
specifically incorporate by reference into this section the information set forth in Item 7, "2009 Transaction Overview," included elsewhere in this report.

Competition

Investing in real estate is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge
fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased
competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete is also impacted by national and local economic
trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation and population trends.

Rental
and related income from our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels,
including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing
properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private,
federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks
associated with competitive conditions affecting our business, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Healthcare Segments

Senior housing.At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 256 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform(1). Senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ILFs"), assisted living facilities ("ALFs") and continuing care retirement communities
("CCRCs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents
directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Our senior housing property types are further described
below:



(1)Investment
Management Platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Ventures II, (ii) HCP
Ventures III, LLC, (iii) HCP Ventures IV, LLC, and (iv) the HCP Life Science ventures. For a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures,
see Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.•Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet
the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with
activities of daily living ("ADL"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. However, residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2009, we had
interests in 49 ILFs.









•Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL yet require limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social
activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents.
These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance
for residents with Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 193 ALFs.•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change,
thus allowing residents to "age in place." Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services. CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 14 CCRCs.

Our
senior housing segment accounted for approximately 30%, 30% and 38% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table
provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2009:

OperatorsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesSunrise Senior Living, Inc. ("Sunrise")(1)(2)35%11%Brookdale Senior Living Inc. ("Brookdale")20%6%



(1)Certain
of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with Sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf.
To determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by Sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased
directly to Sunrise.(2)On
October 1, 2009, we completed the transition of management agreements on 15 communities operated by Sunrise that were previously terminated for
Sunrise's failure to achieve certain performance thresholds. The percentage of segment revenues and total revenues for Sunrise excludes revenues from the transitioned properties.

In addition to the operator concentration above, HCP Ventures II, a 35% owned joint venture interest, leases its 25 senior housing
facilities to Horizon Bay Retirement Living. During the year ended December 31, 2009, HCP Ventures II's rental and related revenues were $83.5 million.

Life science.At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 98 life science properties, including four facilities
owned by our Investment Management Platform. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government
agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced
electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems. The facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related
amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology or chemistry research
initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the
opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. Our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for
scientific research, including San Francisco, San Diego and Salt Lake City.









Our
life science segment accounted for approximately 22%, 21% and 10% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table
provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2009:

TenantsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesGenentech, Inc. ("Genentech")21%5%Amgen, Inc.14%3%

Medical office.At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 251 medical office buildings ("MOBs"), including 67 facilities owned by
our
Investment Management Platform. These facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services
such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing,
electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built
to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers
(hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. Approximately 83% of our MOBs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses.

Our
medical office segment accounted for approximately 27%, 27% and 34% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, HCA, Inc. ("HCA"), as our tenant, contributed 6% of our medical office segment revenues.

Hospital.At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 22 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our Investment Management
Platform.
Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or "HMOs"), or
through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Our hospitals are all leased to
single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures.

In
addition to our interests in hospitals, our hospital segment also includes mezzanine and mortgage loan investments, which at December 31, 2009 aggregated to
$286 million.

Our
hospital segment accounted for approximately 11% 11% and 13% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table provides
information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2009:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCA.37%6%(1)Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet")23%2%



(1)Percentage
of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments.

Skilled nursing.At December 31, 2009, we had interests in 48 skilled nursing facilities ("SNFs"). SNFs offer restorative,
rehabilitative and
custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are
derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care
and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis.
Skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily











paid
for either by private sources or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures.

In
addition to our interests in SNFs, our skilled nursing segment includes investments in mezzanine and mortgage loans to HCR ManorCare, with a face amount in the aggregate of
$1.72 billion at December 31, 2009.

On
December 21, 2007, we purchased $1.0 billion of mezzanine loans of HCR ManorCare at a discount of $100 million, which resulted in an acquisition cost of
$900 million, as part of the financing for The Carlyle Group's $6.3 billion purchase of Manor Care, Inc. These interest-only loans mature in January 2013 and bear
interest on their face values at a floating rate of one-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 4.0%. These loans are mandatorily pre-payable in January 2012 unless
the borrower satisfies certain performance conditions. On August 3, 2009, we purchased a $720 million participation in the first mortgage debt of HCR ManorCare at a discount of
$130 million, which resulted in an acquisition cost of $590 million. The $720 million participation bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.25% and represents 45% of the
$1.6 billion most senior tranche of HCR ManorCare's mortgage debt incurred as part of the above mentioned financing for The Carlyle Group's acquisition of Manor Care, Inc. The mortgage
debt matures in January 2013 if the borrower meets certain performance conditions and exercises a one-year extension option.

Our
skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 5% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table
provides information about our skilled nursing operator operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2009:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare67%7%Covenant Care8%1%

Investment Products

Properties under lease.At December 31, 2009, our investment in properties leased to third parties aggregated approximately
$10 billion
representing 575 properties, including 30 properties accounted for as direct financing leases ("DFLs"). We primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. Most of
our rents and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. However, some of our MOBs and
life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate
taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance.

Our
ability to grow rental income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing
rental rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases include annual base rent
escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index.

Debt investments.At December 31, 2009, our mezzanine and mortgage loan investments aggregated $1.8 billion. Our mezzanine
loans are
generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior
mezzanine loans. Our mortgages are generally secured by healthcare real estate issued by healthcare providers.









Developments and Redevelopments.At December 31, 2009, our investment in properties under development, including redevelopment and
land held
for future development, aggregated $632 million. We generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support
speculative construction. We work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to assist us
in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments.

Investment Management.At December 31, 2009, our Investment Management Platform aggregated $2.0 billion in gross investments,
representing 100 properties. We co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability companies. We target
institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. Predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint
ventures ranging from 20% to 35% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or
incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture.

Non-managing member LLC ("DownREITs").Our DownREIT structures enable us to acquire and hold real estate properties in operating
DownREIT LLCs. In connection with the formation of certain DownREIT LLCs, many members contribute appreciated real estate to the DownREIT LLC in exchange for DownREIT units that
can be exchanged at some future date for shares of our stock or, at our election, redeemed for cash. These contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the
pre-contribution gain related to the property is not taxed to the contributing member. However, if the contributed property is later sold by the DownREIT LLC, the unamortized
pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specially allocated and taxed to the contributing members. In many of these DownREITs, we entered into indemnification agreements
with our members, under which, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the members is sold by
the DownREIT in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the property was contributed, we will reimburse the affected members for the income taxes associated with the
pre-contribution gain that is specially allocated to the affected member. Since the formation of our first DownREIT LLC, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of properties
utilizing DownREIT structures.

Portfolio Summary

At December 31, 2009, we managed $13.8 billion of investments in our Owned Portfolio and Investment Management Platform.
At December 31, 2009, we also owned $632 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, or land held for future development.









Owned Portfolio

As of December 31, 2009, our properties under lease and debt investments in our Owned Portfolio consisted of the following
(square feet and dollars in thousands):

InvestmentsYear EndedDecember 31, 2009SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacity(1)PropertiesUnder Lease(2)Debt(3)TotalInvestmentNOI(4)InterestIncome(5)Senior housing23125,335 Units$4,081,157$7,013$4,088,170$338,373$1,147Life science946,083 Sq. ft.2,822,709—2,822,709207,694—Medical office18412,812 Sq. ft.2,137,140—2,137,140176,663—Hospital182,510 Beds673,248286,430959,67881,39840,295Skilled nursing485,628 Beds255,0841,552,2941,807,37837,54682,704Total575$9,969,338$1,845,737$11,815,075$841,674$124,146

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for additional information on our business segments.



(1)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Life science facilities and medical office buildings are
measured in square feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count.(2)Investments
in properties under lease represents (i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated
depreciation and amortization, and assets under development and land held for future development, and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases, excluding interest accretion.(3)Debt
investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments.(4)Net
Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance
of real estate properties. For the reconciliation of NOI to net income for 2009, refer to Note 14 in our Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.(5)Interest
income represents interest earned from our debt investments.

Developments and Redevelopments

At December 31, 2009, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate
investment of $632 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments.

Investment Management Platform

As of December 31, 2009, our Investment Management Platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and
dollars in thousands):

SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacity(1)HCP'sOwnershipInterestJoint VentureInvestment(2)TotalRevenuesTotalOperatingExpensesSenior housing255,616 Units35%$1,099,376$83,510$7Medical office673,372 Sq. ft.20 - 30%719,76080,01531,682Life science4278 Sq. ft.50 - 63%81,0578,5241,527Hospital4N/A(3)20%81,3828,1651,914Total100$1,981,575$180,214$35,130



(1)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are
measured in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count.









(2)Represents
the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.(3)Information
not provided by the respective operator or tenant.

Employees of HCP

At December 31, 2009, we had 142 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement

Overview

Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations
relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. These regulations are
wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with
this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies
and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators
can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

We
seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and
geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not primarily dependent on Medicare or Medicaid
reimbursement for their revenues. As of December 31, 2009, our investments in our senior housing, life science, medical office, hospital and skilled nursing segments represented approximately
35%, 24%, 18%, 8% and 15% of our portfolio, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we estimate that approximately 14% and 7% of our tenants' and operators' revenues were derived
from Medicare and Medicaid, respectively, based on information provided by our tenants and operators.

The
following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

There are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and
arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. These laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from
filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and
fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations
of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "Stark Law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to
entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing
presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. Violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry









civil,
criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from Medicare,
Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. These laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other
things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bringqui tamor "whistleblower" actions. Many of our operators and
tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.

Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the
federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. As federal and state governments focus
on healthcare reform initiatives, and as many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely
continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and
inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states
require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process
related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established
and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product requires
significant investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is
safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance
fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are
subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial
restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.









Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public
accommodations" as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily
achievable. Should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to
make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable
accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare
facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of
these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as
us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property
damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral
which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.









