ITEM 1.Business

General Overview



HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States (“U.S.”). We are a Maryland corporation organized in 1985 and qualify as a self-administered real estate investment trust (“REIT”). We are headquartered in Irvine, California, with offices in Nashville and San Francisco. Our diverse portfolio is comprised of investments in the following reportable healthcare segments: (i) senior housing triple-net, (ii) senior housing operating portfolio (“SHOP”), (iii) life science and (iv) medical office. AtDecember 31, 2017, we had190full-time employees.

On October 31, 2016, we completed the spin-off (the “Spin-Off”) of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (“QCP”) (NYSE: QCP). The Spin-Off included 338 properties, primarily comprised of the HCR ManorCare, Inc. (“HCRMC”) direct financing lease (“DFL”) investments and an equity investment in HCRMC. QCP is an independent, publicly-traded, self-managed and self-administrated REIT. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Spin-Off.

For a description of our significant activities during2017, see Item 7 in this report.

Business Strategy



We invest and manage our real estate portfolio for the long-term to maximize the benefit to our stockholders and support the growth of our dividends. The core elements of our strategy are: (i) to acquire, develop, lease, own and manage a diversified portfolio of quality healthcare properties across multiple geographic locations and business segments including senior housing, medical office, and life science, among others; (ii) to align ourselves with leading healthcare companies, operators and service providers which, over the long-term, should result in higher relative rental rates, net operating cash flows and appreciation of property values; and (iii) to maintain an investment grade balance sheet with adequate liquidity and long-term fixed rate debt financing with staggered maturities, which supports the longer-term nature of our investments, while reducing our exposure to interest rate volatility and refinancing risk at any point in the interest rate or credit cycles.

Internal Growth Strategies

We believe our real estate portfolio holds the potential for increased future cash flows as it is well-maintained and in desirable locations. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is to: (i) work with new or existing tenants and operators to address their space and capital needs; and (ii) provide high-quality property management services in order to motivate tenants to renew, expand or relocate into our properties.

We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:

•Build and maintain long-term leasing and management relationships with quality tenants and operators. In choosing locations for our properties, we focus on their physical environment, adjacency to established businesses (e.g., hospital systems) and educational centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local demographic factors.

•Replace tenants and operators at the best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and operators and achieve attractive rental rates and operating cash flow as a result of the location, design and maintenance of our properties, together with our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer space alternatives within our portfolio.

•Extend and modify terms of existing leases prior to expiration. We structure lease extensions, early renewals or modifications, which reduce the cost associated with lease downtime or the re-investment risk resulting from the exercise of tenants’ purchase options, while securing the tenancy and relationship of our high quality tenants and operators on a long-term basis.

Investment Strategies

The delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the: (i) compelling long-term demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; (ii) specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and (iii) ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector.









While we emphasize healthcare real estate ownership, we may also provide real estate secured financing to, or invest in equity or debt securities of, healthcare operators or other entities engaged in healthcare real estate ownership. We may also acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, operating companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment strategies. We may co-invest alongside institutional or development investors through partnerships or limited liability companies.

We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment vehicle or geographic location, the number of properties that may be leased to a single tenant or operator, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. In allocating capital, we target opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for our portfolio as a whole. We may take additional measures to mitigate risk, including diversifying our investments (by sector, geography, tenant or operator), structuring transactions as master leases, requiring tenant or operator insurance and indemnifications, and obtaining credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits.

We believe we are well-positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions, financing and development. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:

•our reputation gained through over 30 years of successful operations and the strength of our existing portfolio of properties;

•our relationships with leading healthcare operators and systems, investment banks and other market intermediaries, corporations, private equity firms, non-profits and public institutions seeking to monetize existing assets or develop new facilities;

•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality healthcare real estate;

•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions responsively and efficiently, which provides confidence to domestic and foreign institutions and private investors who seek to sell healthcare real estate in our market areas;

•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the healthcare and real estate industries; and

•our control of sites (including assets under contract with radius restrictions).

Financing Strategies

Our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains); therefore, we don’t retain a significant amount of capital. As a result, we regularly access the public equity and debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions and debt investments, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt.

We may finance acquisitions and other investments through the following vehicles:

•borrowings under our credit facility;

•issuance or origination of debt, including unsecured notes, term loans and mortgage debt;

•sale of ownership interests in properties or other investments; or

•issuance of common or preferred stock or its equivalent.

We maintain a disciplined balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity. Our debt obligations are primarily long-term fixed rate with staggered maturities.

We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering debt and equity securities, placing mortgage debt and obtaining capital from institutional lenders and joint venture partners.









Segments



The following table summarizes our revenues by segment (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,Segment2017%2016%2015%Senior housing triple-net$313,54717$423,11820$428,26922SHOP525,47329686,82232518,26427Life science358,81619358,53717342,98418Medical office477,45926446,28021415,35121Other non-reportable segments173,0839214,53710235,62112Total revenues$1,848,378100$2,129,294100$1,940,489100

Senior housing (triple-net and SHOP).Our senior housing facilities are managed utilizing triple-net leases and RIDEA structures, which are permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (commonly referred to as “RIDEA”), and include independent living facilities (“ILFs”), assisted living facilities (“ALFs”), and memory care facilities (“MCFs”), and continuing care retirement communities ("CCRCs") which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. Services provided by our tenants or operators in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.

We have entered into long-term agreements with operators to manage properties under a RIDEA structure. Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease a “qualified healthcare property” on an arm’s length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”), if the property is managed on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” RIDEA structures allow us to own the risks and rewards of the operations of healthcare facilities (as compared to leasing the property for contractual triple-net rents) in a tax efficient manner. We view RIDEA as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and/or growth profiles by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset. Our operators provide comprehensive facility management and accounting services for a majority of our senior housing RIDEA properties, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to the aforementioned agreements.



Most of the management agreements have terms ranging from 10 to 15 years, with three to four 5-year renewals. The base management fees are 4.5% to 5.0% of gross revenues (as defined) generated by the RIDEA facilities. In addition, there are incentive management fees payable to our operators if operating results of the RIDEA properties exceed pre-established EBITDAR (defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and rent) thresholds.

Our senior housing property types under both triple-net leases and RIDEA structures are further described below:

•Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded socially by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. Additionally, the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living (“ADL”). However, in some of our facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services.

•Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL, such as bathing, eating, dressing and medication management, yet require limited medical care. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may have a dedicated portion of a facility that offers higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of Alzheimer’s disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations.

•Memory Care Facilities.MCFs address the unique challenges of our residents with Alzheimer’s disease or other forms of dementia. Residents may live in semi-private apartments or private rooms and have structured activities delivered by staff members trained specifically on how to care for residents with memory impairment. These facilities offer programs that provide comfort and care in a secure environment.

•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs offer several levels of service, including independent living, assisted living and nursing home care. CCRCs are different from other housing and care options for seniors because they usually provide written agreements or long-term contracts between residents and the communities (frequently lasting the term of the









resident’s lifetime), which offer a continuum of housing, services and healthcare on one campus or site. CCRCs are appealing as they allow residents to “age in place.” CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry.

The following table provides information about our senior housing triple-net tenant concentration for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:

TenantPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesBrookdale Senior Living, Inc. (“Brookdale”)(1)47%8%_______________________________________

(1)Excludes facilities operated by Brookdale in our SHOP segment, as discussed below. Our concentration with respect to Brookdale as a tenant is expected to decrease with the completion of the transaction with Brookdale (see Note 3 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).

As ofDecember 31, 2017, Brookdale operated, in our SHOP segment, approximately13%of our real estate investments based on total assets. Our concentration with respect to Brookdale as an operator in our SHOP segment is expected to decrease with the completion of the transaction with Brookdale (see Note 3 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information) and the sale of our remaining40%ownership interest in RIDEA II (see Note 5 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Because operators manage our facilities in exchange for the receipt of a management fee, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of the operators in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants. However, adverse developments in their business and affairs or financial condition could impair their ability to efficiently and effectively manage our facilities.

Life science.These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives.

Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research and drug discovery, including San Francisco (63%) and San Diego (25%), California, Boston, Massachusetts, and Durham, North Carolina (based on square feet). AtDecember 31, 2017,93%of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet).

The following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:

TenantsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesAmgen, Inc.15%3%Google LLC10%2%

Medical office.Medical office buildings (“MOBs”) typically contain physicians’ offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain vaults or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately81%of our MOBs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and94%affiliated with hospital systems. Occasionally, we invest in MOBs located on hospital campuses, which may be subject to ground leases. AtDecember 31, 2017, approximately54%of our medical office buildings were net leased (based on leased square feet) with the remaining leased under gross or modified gross leases.









The following table provides information about our medical office tenant concentration for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:

TenantPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHospital Corporation of America ("HCA")(1)17%6%_______________________________________

(1)Percentage of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and other non-reportable segments.

Other non-reportable segments.AtDecember 31, 2017, we had interests in14hospitals,61care homes in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”),onepost-acute/skilled nursing facilities (“SNF”) and debt investments. Additionally, we had interests in 72 senior housing facilities, four life science facilities, three MOBs and three SNFs owned and operated by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Services provided by our tenants and operators in hospitals are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs) or through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, and specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Care homes offer personal care services, such as lodging, meal services, housekeeping and laundry services, medication management and assistance with ADL. Care homes are registered to provide different levels of services, ranging from personal care to nursing care. Some homes can be further registered for a specific care need, such as dementia or terminal illness. SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people following a hospital stay or not requiring the more extensive and complex treatment available at hospitals. All of our care homes in the U.K., hospitals and SNFs are triple-net leased.

Competition



Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment companies, pension funds, private equity investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater flexibility (e.g., non-REIT competitors), resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete may also be impacted by global, national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation and population trends.

Income from our investments depends on our tenants’ and operators’ ability to compete with other companies on multiple levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, success of product or drug development, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks associated with competitive conditions affecting our business, see “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement



Overview

Our healthcare facility operators (which include our TRSs when we use a RIDEA structure) and tenants are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to quality of care, licensure and certificate of need, government reimbursement, fraud and abuse practices, and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. These regulations are wide ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies, and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws, regulations, reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.









The following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

qui tam

or “whistleblower” actions. Many of our tenants and operators are subject to these laws, and may become the subject of governmental enforcement actions or whistleblower actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws. Additionally, beginning in November 2019, the licensed operators of our U.S. long-term care facilities will be required to have compliance and ethics programs that meet the requirements of federal regulations. We have begun the process of developing and implementing such programs.

Laws and Regulations Governing Privacy and Security

Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for some of our tenants and operators include, among others, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal Medicare programs and state Medicaid programs and, in the U.K., the National Health Service (“NHS”) and local authority funding, and non-governmental third-party payors, such as insurance carriers and HMOs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as the federal government and many states face significant current and future budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. Similarly, in the U.K., the NHS and the local authorities are undertaking efforts to reduce costs, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by our U.K. tenants and operators. Additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the U.S., including but not limited to Medicare Advantage, Dual Eligible, Accountable Care Organizations (“ACO”), and Bundled Payments could adversely impact our tenants’ and operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.









Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio (including our facilities located in the U.K.) are subject to extensive national, federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. A healthcare facility’s failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in a revocation, suspension, or non-renewal of the facility’s license, which could adversely affect the facility’s operations and ability to bill for items and services provided at the facility. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to handle controlled substances (including narcotics), operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states in the U.S. require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion or closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact the ability of some of our tenants and operators to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration, or other regulatory authorities, for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and capital, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of our senior housing facilities, primarily the CCRCs in our unconsolidated joint ventures, are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit, typically consisting of a right to receive certain personal or health care services. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility’s financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, the right of residents to receive a refund of their entrance fees, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.

Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”)

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and any related liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property and/or the assets. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the value of such property and the owner’s ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our earnings. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.

Insurance



We obtain various types of insurance to mitigate the impact of property, business interruption, liability, flood, windstorm, earthquake, environmental and terrorism related losses. We attempt to obtain appropriate policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles considering the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as those due to acts of war or other events that may be either uninsurable or not economically









insurable. In addition, we have a large number of properties that are exposed to earthquake, flood and windstorm occurrences which carry higher deductibles.

We maintain property insurance for all of our properties, primary for our SHOP, life science and medical office segments. Tenants under triple-net leases, primarily in our senior housing triple-net segment, are required to provide primary property, business interruption and liability insurance. We maintain separate general and professional liability insurance for our SHOP facilities. Additionally, our corporate general liability insurance program also extends coverage for all of our properties beyond the aforementioned. We periodically review whether we or our RIDEA operators will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable SHOP properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information relating to casualty-related losses and recoveries incurred as a result of the hurricanes in the third quarter of 2017.

We also maintain directors and officers liability insurance which provides protection for claims against our directors and officers arising from their responsibilities as directors and officers. Such insurance also extends to us in certain situations.

Sustainability



We believe that sustainability initiatives are a vital part of corporate responsibility, which supports our primary goal of increasing stockholder value through profitable growth. We continue to advance our commitment to sustainability, with a focus on achieving goals in each of the Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) dimensions of sustainability.

Our environmental management programs strive to capture cost efficiencies that ultimately benefit our investors, tenants, operators, employees and other stakeholders, while providing a positive impact on the communities in which we operate. Our social responsibility team leads our local philanthropic and volunteer activities, and our transparent corporate governance initiatives incorporate sustainability as a critical component to achieving our business objectives and properly managing risks.

Our 2017 sustainability achievements include being named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year and constituency in the FTSE4Good Index series for the sixth consecutive year. We also earned the Green Star designation from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, or GRESB, and were named to the Leadership Band by CDP for outstanding ESG performance. We achieved constituency in the North America Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) for the fifth consecutive year, as well as the World DJSI for the third time. Additionally, we were included in The Sustainability Yearbook 2018, a listing of the world’s most sustainable companies. The list is compiled according to the results of RobecoSAM’s annual Corporate Sustainability Assessment, which also determines constituency for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) series. For additional information regarding our ESG sustainability initiatives and our approach to climate change, please visit our website at www.hcpi.com/sustainability.

Available Information



Our website address is www.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).



