ITEM 1.    Business

Business Overview

HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. We are a
Maryland corporation organized in 1985 to qualify as a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT"). We are headquartered in Long Beach, California, with offices in Nashville, Tennessee and
San Francisco, California. We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate, and provide financing to healthcare providers. Our portfolio is comprised of investments in the
following five healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) post-acute/skilled nursing, (iii) life science, (iv) medical office and (v) hospital. We make
investments in our healthcare segments using the following five investment products: (i) properties under lease, (ii) debt investments, (iii) developments and redevelopments,
(iv) investment management and (v) investments in senior housing operations utilizing the structure permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which is commonly referred
to as "RIDEA."

The
delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that
the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the following:

•Compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services;•Specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and•Ongoing consolidation of a fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

Our
website address iswww.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") are available on our
website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the United States ("U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single largest industry in the U.S. based on Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). According to the National Health
Expenditures report by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"): (i) national health expenditures are projected to grow 6.1% in 2014 and 5.8% in 2015; (ii) the average
compounded annual growth rate for national health expenditures, over the projection period of 2015 through 2022, is anticipated to be 6.2%; and (iii) the healthcare industry is projected to
represent 18.3% of U.S. GDP in 2014.

Senior
citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. According to CMS, on a per capita basis, the 75-year and older segment of the population spends 76% more on healthcare
than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and over 200% more than the population average.









U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old



Source:
U.S. Census Bureau, the Statistical Abstract of the United States.

Business Strategy

Our primary goal is to increase stockholder value through profitable growth, which allows us to maintain or increase dividends per
share to our stockholders. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification and
(iii) conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make investment decisions that are expected to drive profitable growth and create stockholder value. We position ourselves to create
and take advantage of opportunities that will allow us to meet our goals and investment criteria.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare investments diversified by segment, geography, operator, tenant and investment
product. We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment product or geographic location, the number
of properties that may be leased to a single operator or tenant, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. With investments in multiple segments and investment products, we can focus on
opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole. We may structure transactions as master leases, require operator or tenant insurance and indemnifications,
obtain credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk.









Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative balance sheet is important to our ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach. We maintain a
conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt-to-equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit facility (the "Facility"), access to
capital markets and secured debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective institutional joint venture partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt obligations are primarily fixed
rate with staggered maturities, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.

We
finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize the Facility or arrange for other short-term borrowings from
banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering equity and debt securities, placing mortgage debt and obtaining capital from institutional lenders.

We
specifically incorporate by reference into this section the information set forth in Item 7, "2013 Transaction Overview," of this report.

Competition

Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment
companies, pension funds, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources
and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete
may also be impacted by national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations,
new legislation and population trends.

Income
from our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with other companies on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care
provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral
sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private, federal and state payment programs, as well as
the effect of laws and regulations, may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks associated with competitive conditions
affecting our business, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Healthcare Segments

Senior housing.At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 444 senior housing facilities, 20 of which are in a RIDEA structure.
Excluding RIDEA
properties, all of our senior housing facilities are triple-net leased to single tenants. Senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities ("ALFs"), independent living facilities ("ILFs")
and continuing care retirement communities ("CCRCs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. Services provided by our operators or tenants in
these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Our senior
housing property types are further described below:

•Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living ("ADL"), such as bathing, eating and dressing, yet require
limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop









access,
hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private
residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of Alzheimer's disease or other
forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 366 ALFs.

•Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet
the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with ADL.
However, in some of our facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 64 ILFs.•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing
residents to "age in place." Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. CCRCs
typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 14 CCRCs.

Our
senior housing segment accounted for approximately 36%, 33% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The following table
provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2013:

Tenants/OperatorsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare, Inc. ("HCR ManorCare")1028(1)Emeritus Corporation ("Emeritus")3513Sunrise Senior Living Inc. ("Sunrise")(2)135Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. ("Brookdale")124



(1)Percentage
of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to HCR ManorCare.(2)These
concentrations include properties that are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with Sunrise to operate the respective
property on their behalf.

Post-acute/skilled nursing.At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 302 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ("SNFs"). SNFs
offer
restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and complex treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care
services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain
injury care and orthopedic therapy, as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain SNFs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. Post-acute/skilled
nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by private sources or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are triple-net
leased to single tenants.

Our
post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 29% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. During the year ended
December 31, 2013, HCR ManorCare, as our tenant/operator, contributed 83% of our post-acute/skilled nursing segment revenues.









Life science.At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 115 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government
agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced
electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops
and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or
medical device research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us
the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for
scientific research, including San Francisco, San Diego and Salt Lake City. At December 31, 2013, 96% of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet).

Our
life science segment accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 17% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The following table
provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2013:

TenantsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesAmgen, Inc.183Genentech, Inc.183

Medical office.At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 272 medical office buildings ("MOBs"), including 66 facilities owned by
our
Investment Management Platform. These facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services
such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and
mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher
structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and
physician practices), with approximately 77% of our MOBs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and 94% are affiliated with hospital systems. At December 31, 2013, 47% of our
medical office buildings were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet).

Our
medical office segment accounted for approximately 17%, 18% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2013, HCA, Inc. ("HCA"), as our tenant, contributed 14% of our medical office segment revenues.

Hospital.At December 31, 2013, we had interests in 20 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our Investment Management
Platform.
Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or "HMOs"), or
through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Our hospitals are generally leased to single
tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures.









Our
hospital segment accounted for approximately 4%, 5% and 5% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The following table provides
information about our hospital tenant/operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2013:

Tenants/OperatorsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCA(1)173Tenet Healthcare Corporation321



(1)Percentage
of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments.

Investment Products

Properties under lease.We primarily generate revenue from properties under long-term leases. Most of our rents and other earned income
from leases
are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees,
utilities and insurance. However, some of our MOB and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur
the property operating expenses.

Our
ability to grow income from leased properties depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income by increasing rental rates and occupancy
levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases include contractual annual base rent escalation clauses that are either
predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index, which may include minimum and/or maximum percentage increases.

Debt investments.Our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly
or indirectly
own properties, and are subordinate to other debt, including mortgages and other mezzanine loans. Our mortgage and construction loans are typically made to healthcare providers, and healthcare real
estate generally secures these loans.

Developments and redevelopments.We generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that
market
conditions will support speculative construction. We work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management
companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments.
Redevelopments are properties that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to renovate, achieve stabilization or to change the primary
use of the property.

Investment management.We co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as
partnerships or
limited liability companies. We target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. Predominantly, we retain
noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the
potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture.

Our
Investment Management Platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Ventures III, LLC, and HCP Ventures IV, LLC, which consists of MOB
portfolios, and (ii) the HCP Life Science ventures. For a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.







Operating properties ("RIDEA").We may enter into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a
structure permitted
by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (commonly referred to as "RIDEA"). Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease "qualified healthcare properties" on an arm's length basis to a
taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." We view RIDEA as a structure primarily to be
used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and to drive growth by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or
ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset.

Portfolio Summary

At December 31, 2013, we managed $21.7 billion of investments in our Owned Portfolio and Investment Management Platform.
At December 31, 2013, we also owned $517 million of assets under development, redevelopment, and land held for future development.

Owned Portfolio

As of December 31, 2013, our leases, operating properties and debt investments in our Owned Portfolio consisted of the following
(square feet and dollars in thousands):

Investment(3)Number ofProperties(1)TotalInvestmentInterestIncome(5)SegmentCapacity(2)Properties(1)DebtNOI(4)Senior housing44445,582 Units$7,654,129$164,663$7,818,792$653,191$11,621Post-acute/skilled30238,566 Beds5,755,824427,3566,183,180539,32073,595Life science1117,080 Sq. ft.3,439,319—3,439,319239,923—Medical office20614,094 Sq. ft.2,663,101—2,663,101212,958—Hospital162,221 Beds592,36018,071610,43168,198943​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total1,079$20,104,733$610,090$20,714,823$1,713,590$86,159​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



(1)Represents
1,059 properties under lease with an investment value of $19.3 billion and 20 operating properties under a RIDEA structure with an
investment value of $768 million.(2)Senior
housing facilities are measured in available units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Life science facilities and medical office
buildings are measured in square feet. SNFs and hospitals are measured in available bed count.(3)Property
investment represents: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization;
and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. Debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments.(4)Net
Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real
estate properties. For the reconciliation of NOI to net income for 2013, refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(5)Interest
income represents interest earned from our debt investments.

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our business segments.

Developments and Redevelopments

At December 31, 2013, in addition to our investments in leased properties and debt investments, we had an aggregate investment
of $517 million in assets under development, redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments.









Investment Management Platform

As of December 31, 2013, our Investment Management Platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and
dollars in thousands):

SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacityHCP'sOwnershipInterestJoint VentureInvestment(1)TotalRevenuesTotalOperatingExpensesMedical office663,389 Sq. ft.20 - 30%$739,493$71,755$31,250Life science4278 Sq. ft.50 - 63%145,41010,8671,889Hospital4149 Beds20%77,6107,550986​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total74$962,513$90,172$34,125​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



(1)Represents
the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.

Employees of HCP

At December 31, 2013, we had 154 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement

Overview

Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations
relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare
industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. These
regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with
this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies
and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a
significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Based
on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at December 31, 2013 we estimate that approximately 17% and 14% of the
annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators were dependent on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, respectively.

The
following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

There are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and
arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. These laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from
filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and









fee-splitting
statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or
services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral laws (commonly referred to as the "Stark Law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician
or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv) the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent
claim for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health information. Violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive
sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. These laws are
enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants
to bring

qui tam

or "whistleblower" actions. Many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and may become the subject of governmental
enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.

Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among others, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal
Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and HMOs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as the
federal government and many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for
certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and
inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states
require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process
related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some
cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration, or other regulatory authorities, for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires
substantial investments of time and money, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is
safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of our senior housing facilities are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or
consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory
oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to
cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.









Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public
accommodations" as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily
achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by
persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance
with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we
continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare
facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender.
Some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender,
such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating
to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property
damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral
which, in turn, could reduce our earnings. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.

