ITEM 1.    Business

Business Overview

HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. We are a
Maryland corporation organized in 1985 to qualify as a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT"). We are headquartered in Long Beach, California, with offices in Nashville,
Tennessee and San Francisco, California. We acquire, develop, lease, manage and dispose of healthcare real estate, and provide financing to healthcare providers. Our portfolio is comprised of
investments in the following five healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) post-acute/skilled nursing, (iii) life science, (iv) medical office and
(v) hospital. We make investments within our healthcare segments using the following five investment products: (i) properties under lease, (ii) debt investments,
(iii) developments and redevelopments, (iv) investment management and (v) investments in senior housing operations utilizing the structure permitted by the Housing and Economic
Recovery Act of 2008, which is commonly referred to as "RIDEA."

The
delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that
the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the following:

•Compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services;•Specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and•Ongoing consolidation of a fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

Our
website address iswww.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the United States
("U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single largest industry in the U.S. based on Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). According to the National Health
Expenditures report by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"): (i) national health expenditures are projected to grow 3.8% in 2013 and 7.4% in 2014; (ii) the average
compounded annual growth rate for national health expenditures, over the projection period of 2015 through 2021, is anticipated to be 6.2%; and (iii) the healthcare industry is projected to
represent 17.8% of U.S. GDP in 2013.

Senior
citizens are the largest consumers of healthcare services. According to CMS, on a per capita basis, the 75-year and older segment of the population spends 76% more on
healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old segment and over 200% more than the population average.









U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old



Source:
U.S. Census Bureau, the Statistical Abstract of the United States.

Business Strategy

Our primary goal is to increase shareholder value through profitable growth, which allows us to maintain or increase dividends per
share to our shareholders. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal is based on three principles: (i) opportunistic investing, (ii) portfolio diversification and
(iii) conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make investment decisions that are expected to drive profitable growth and create shareholder value. We attempt to position
ourselves to create and take advantage of situations to meet our goals and investment criteria.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining a portfolio of healthcare investments diversified by segment, geography, operator, tenant and investment
product. We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment product, geographic location, the number of
properties which we may lease to a single operator or tenant, or loans we may make to a single borrower. With investments in multiple segments and investment products, we can focus on opportunities
with the most attractive risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole. We may structure transactions as master leases, require operator or tenant insurance and indemnifications, obtain credit
enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk.

Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative balance sheet is important to our ability to execute our opportunistic investing approach. We strive to
maintain a conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt-to-equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit
facility, access to capital markets and secured
debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective institutional joint venture partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt obligations are primarily fixed rate with staggered
maturities, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.

We
finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or arrange
for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing through offerings of









equity
and debt securities, placement of mortgage debt and capital from other institutional lenders and equity investors.

We
specifically incorporate by reference into this section the information set forth in Item 7, "2012 Transaction Overview," included elsewhere in this report.

Competition

Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment
companies, pension funds, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources
and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete
may also be impacted by national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations,
new legislation and population trends.

Income
from our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with other companies on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care
provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral
sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private, federal and state payment programs as well as
the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks associated with competitive conditions
affecting our business, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Healthcare Segments

Senior housing.At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 441 senior housing facilities, 21 of which are in a RIDEA structure.
Excluding RIDEA
properties, all of our senior housing facilities are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. Senior housing facilities include assisted living facilities ("ALFs"),
independent living facilities ("ILFs") and continuing care retirement communities ("CCRCs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. Services
provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as
Medicaid and Medicare. Our senior housing property types are further described below:

•Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with activities of daily living ("ADL"), such as bathing, eating and dressing, yet require
limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community
excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single
rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of
personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 363 ALFs.•Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet
the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with ADL.
However, in some of our









facilities,
residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 64 ILFs.•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change,
thus allowing residents to "age in place." Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services. CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 14 CCRCs.

During
the fourth quarter of 2012, we acquired 129 senior housing communities for $1.7 billion, from a joint venture between Emeritus Corporation and Blackstone Real Estate
Partners VI, an affiliate of Blackstone (the "Blackstone JV"). Located in 29 states, the portfolio encompasses 10,077 units representing a diversified care mix of 61% assisted living, 25% independent
living, 13% memory care and 1% skilled nursing. Emeritus continues to operate the communities pursuant to a new triple-net, master lease for the 129 properties guaranteed by Emeritus. For
a more detailed description of the acquisition see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our
senior housing segment accounted for approximately 33%, 30% and 30% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table
provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2012:

OperatorsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare, Inc. ("HCR ManorCare")(1)1130Emeritus Corporation ("Emeritus")(2)238Sunrise Senior Living Inc. ("Sunrise")(3)155Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. ("Brookdale")(4)145



(1)Percentage
of total revenues includes revenues earned from both our senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to HCR
ManorCare.(2)Percentage
of total revenues from Emeritus includes partial results for Blackstone JV acquisition. Assuming that full-year results were included
for this acquisition in our 2012 revenues, the percentage of segment revenues and total revenues would be 36% and 12%, respectively.(3)Certain
of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with Sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf.
To determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by Sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased
directly to Sunrise.(4)Brookdale
percentages do not include $143 million of senior housing revenues, related to 21 senior housing facilities that Brookdale operates on our
behalf under a RIDEA structure. Assuming that these revenues were attributable to Brookdale, the percentage of combined segment and total revenues associated Brookdale would be 36% and 12%
respectively.

Post-acute/skilled nursing.At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 312 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities
("SNFs"). SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and
revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous
therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain SNFs provide some of the foregoing services on
an out-patient basis. Post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources or through
the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures.









Our
post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 29%, 29% and 13% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The following table provides information about our post-acute/skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2012:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare(1)9030



(1)Percentage
of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to HCR
ManorCare.

Life science.

At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 113 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government
agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced
electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating, and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops
and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or
medical device research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us
the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known
for scientific research, including San Francisco, San Diego and Salt Lake City. At December 31, 2012, 96% of our life science leases (based on leased square feet) were under
triple-net structures.

Our
life science segment accounted for approximately 15%, 17% and 22% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table
provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2012:

TenantsPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesGenentech, Inc.193Amgen, Inc.183

Medical office.At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 273 medical office buildings ("MOBs"), including 66 facilities owned by
our
Investment Management Platform. These facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services
such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing,
electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built
to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain "vaults" or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers
(hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 77% of our MOBs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and 94% are affiliated with hospital systems. At December 31, 2012,
47% of our medical office leases (based on leased square feet) were under triple-net structures.









Our
medical office segment accounted for approximately 18%, 19% and 25% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2012, HCA, Inc. ("HCA"), as our tenant, contributed 14% of our medical office segment revenues.

Our
Investment Management Platform represents the following unconsolidated joint ventures: (i) HCP Ventures III, LLC, and HCP Ventures IV, LLC, which
consists of MOB portfolios, and (ii) the HCP Life Science ventures. For a more detailed description of these unconsolidated joint ventures, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Hospital.At December 31, 2012, we had interests in 21 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our Investment Management
Platform.
Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or "HMOs"), or
through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Our hospitals are generally leased
to single tenants or operators under triple-net lease structures.

Our
hospital segment accounted for approximately 5%, 5% and 10% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table provides
information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2012:

Operators/Tenants and BorrowersPercentage ofSegment RevenuesPercentage ofTotal RevenuesHCA(1)294Tenet Healthcare Corporation271



(1)Percentage
of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments.

Investment Products

Properties under lease.We primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. Most of our rents and other earned
income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for a substantial recovery of operating expenses. However, some of our MOBs and life science facility rents
are structured under gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and
maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance.

Our
ability to grow income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental
rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases include contractual annual base rent
escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases and/or are a function of an inflation index.

Debt investments.Our mezzanine loans are generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly
or indirectly
own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior mezzanine loans. Borrowers of our interests in mortgage and construction loans are typically healthcare
providers and healthcare real estate generally secures these loans.

Developments and redevelopments.We generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that
market conditions will support speculative construction. We work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction
management companies to assist us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development and redevelopment investments are primarily in our life science and medical office
segments. Redevelopments are properties that require









significant
capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquisition cost or existing basis) to update, achieve stabilization or to change the primary use of the properties.

Investment management.We co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as
partnerships or limited liability companies. We target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate.
Predominantly, we retain noncontrolling interests in the joint ventures ranging from 20% to 30% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset
management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture.

Operating properties ("RIDEA").We may enter into contracts with healthcare operators to manage communities that are placed in a
structure permitted
by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (commonly referred to as "RIDEA"). Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease "qualified healthcare properties" on an arm's length basis to a
taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an "eligible independent contractor." We view RIDEA as a structure primarily to be
used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and to drive growth by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or
ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset.

Portfolio Summary

At December 31, 2012, we managed $21.3 billion of investments in our Owned Portfolio and Investment Management Platform.
At December 31, 2012, we also owned $540 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development.

Owned Portfolio

As of December 31, 2012, our leases and operating properties and debt investments in our Owned Portfolio consisted of the
following (square feet and dollars in thousands):

Year EndedDecember 31, 2012Investment(3)Number ofProperties(1)TotalInvestmentInterestIncome(5)SegmentCapacity(2)Properties(1)DebtNOI(4)Senior housing44145,669 Units$7,543,163$123,642$7,666,805$531,419$3,503Post-acute/skilled31241,538 Beds5,669,469328,9055,998,374538,85619,993Life science1097,002 Sq. ft.3,362,298—3,362,298236,491—Medical office20714,274 Sq. ft.2,613,254—2,613,254202,547—Hospital172,410 Beds650,93746,292(6)697,22980,9801,040Total1,086$19,839,121$498,839$20,337,960$1,590,293$24,536



(1)Represents
1,065 properties under lease with an investment value of $19.1 billion and 21 operating properties under a RIDEA structure with an
investment value of $759 million.(2)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Life science facilities and medical office buildings are
measured in square feet. SNFs and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count.(3)Property
investments represent: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization;
and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. Debt investment represents the carrying amount of mezzanine, mortgage and other secured loan investments.(4)Net
Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance
of real estate properties. For the reconciliation of NOI to net income for 2012, refer to Note 14 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.









(5)Interest
income represents interest earned from our debt investments.(6)Includes
a senior secured loan to Delphis Operations, L.P. ("Delphis") that was placed on non-accrual status effective January 1,
2011 with a carrying value of $31 million at December 31, 2012. For a more detailed description of the senior secured loan to Delphis, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our business segments.

Developments and Redevelopments

At December 31, 2012, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we have an aggregate
investment of $540 million in assets under development, including redevelopment, and land held for future development, primarily in our life science and medical office segments.

Investment Management Platform

As of December 31, 2012, our Investment Management Platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and
dollars in thousands):

SegmentNumber ofPropertiesCapacity(1)HCP'sOwnershipInterestJoint VentureInvestment(2)TotalRevenuesTotalOperatingExpensesMedical office(3)663,389 Sq. ft.20 - 30%$729,831$72,421$30,870Life science4278 Sq. ft.50 - 63%144,48910,8811,513Hospital4149 Beds20%81,3834,001963Total74$955,703$87,303$33,346



(1)Life
science facilities and medical office buildings are measured in square feet.(2)Represents
the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.(3)During
2010, one MOB was placed into redevelopment; its statistics are not included in the medical office information.

Employees of HCP

At December 31, 2012, we had 149 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement

Overview

Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations
relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare
industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. These
regulations are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to
comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several
government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our
tenants and









operators
can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Based
on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at December 31, 2012 we estimate that approximately 18% and 14% of the
annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators were dependent on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, respectively.

The
following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

qui tam

or "whistleblower" actions. Many of our operators and tenants are subject to these
laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.

Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the
federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and HMOs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform
initiatives, and as the federal government and many states face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth
in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and
inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states
require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of certain healthcare facilities. The









approval
process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established
and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device
requires substantial investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the
product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance
fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are
subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial
restrictions, the right of
residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.

Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public
accommodations" as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily
achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by
persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant.
Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an
ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare
facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender.
Some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender,
such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating
to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property
damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral
which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.









