ITEM1.    Business

General Overview

HCP, an S&P 500 company, invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare industry in the United States. We are a Maryland corporation organized in 1985 andqualify asa self-administered real estate investment trust (“REIT”). We are headquartered in Irvine, California, with offices in Nashville, Los Angeles, San Francisco and London. Our diverse portfolio is comprised of investments in the following healthcare segments: (i) senior housing, (ii) post-acute/skilled nursing, (iii) life science, (iv) medical office and (v) hospital.

Portfolio Summary:At December 31, 2014, we managed $24.3 billion of investments in our Owned Portfolio and Unconsolidated Joint Ventures and owned $483 million of assets under Development and Redevelopment.

Owned Portfolio.At December 31, 2014, our leases, operating properties and debt investments in our owned portfolio consisted of the following(square feetand dollars in thousands):



Number ofInvestment(3)TotalInterestSegmentProperties(1)Capacity(2)Properties(1)DebtInvestmentNOI(4)IncomeSenior housing46545,358Units$7,782,877$152,733$7,935,610$695,672$14,249Post-acute/ skilled30138,309Beds5,875,525968,2006,843,725553,23560,242Life science1117,321Sq. ft.3,648,505—3,648,505251,034—Medical office21515,222Sq. ft.3,023,953—3,023,953222,757—Hospital162,221Beds594,04817,470611,51882,678—Total1,108$20,924,908$1,138,403$22,063,311$1,805,376$74,491



(1)Represents 1,040 properties under lease with an investment value of $19.3 billion and 68 operating properties under RIDEA structures (see “Healthcare Segments—Senior housing” section below) with an investment value of $1.6 billion.

(2)Senior housing facilities are measured in available units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Post-acute/skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are measured in available bed count. Life science and medical office buildings are measured in squarefeet (“sq. ft.”).

(3)Property investment represents: (i) the carrying amount of real estate and intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization, and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases. Debt investment represents the carrying amount of loans receivable and marketable debt securities.

(4)Net Operating Income from continuing operations (“NOI”) is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. For a reconciliation of net incometo NOI for 2014, refer to Note14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.At December 31, 2014, we had interests in significant unconsolidated joint ventures representing 88 properties with an aggregate investment of $2.2 billion primarily in our senior housing, life science and medical office segments.

Developments and Redevelopments.At December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate investment of $483 million in assets under development, redevelopment and land held for future development, which are primarily in our life science and medical office segments.

For a description of our significant activities during 2014, see Item 7 in this report.















Business Strategy

We invest and manage our real estate portfolio for the long-term to maximize the benefit to our shareholders and support the growth of our dividends. The core elements of our strategy are: (i) to acquire, develop, lease, own and manage a diversified portfolio of quality healthcare properties across multiple business segments and geographic locations (including Europe); (ii) to align ourselves with leading healthcare companies, operators and service providers, which over the long-term should result in higher relative rental rates, net operating cash flows and appreciation of property values; (iii) to concentrate on longer-term escalating triple-net leases with high-quality tenants, while using RIDEA structures for properties that have higher growth potential; (iv) to maintain adequate liquidity with long-term fixed rate debt financing with staggered maturities, which supports the longer-term nature of our investments, while reducing our exposure to interest rate volatility and refinancing risk at any point in the interest rate or credit cycles; and (v) to continue to manage our balance sheet with a targeted financial leverage of 40% relative to our assets.

Internal Growth Strategies

We believe that our longer-term escalating triple-net leases with financially strong tenants and operators enhance the quality, stability and growth of our rental income. Further, we believe many of our existing properties hold the potential for increased future cash flows as they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary licensing, other approvals and/or financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is to: (i) work with new or existing tenants and operators to address their space and capital needs and (ii) provide high-quality property management services in order to motivate tenants to renew, expand or relocate into our properties.

We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:

·Build and maintain long-term leasing and managementrelationships with quality tenantsand operators. In choosing locations for our properties, we focus our attention on their physical environment, adjacency to established businesses (e.g., hospital systems) and educational centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local demographic factors.

·Replace tenants and operators quickly at the best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and operators and achieve attractive rental rates and operating cash flow as a result of the location, design and maintenance of our properties, together with our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer space alternatives within ourportfolios.

·Extend and modify terms of existing leases prior to expiration. We structure lease extensions, early renewals or modifications, which reduce the cost associated with lease downtime or the re-investment risk resulting from the exercise of tenants’ purchase options, while securing the tenancy and/or relationship of our high quality tenants and operators on a long-term basis.

Investment Strategies

The delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe that the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the: (i) compelling demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; (ii) specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and (iii) ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector.

While we emphasize healthcare real estate ownership, we may also provide real estate secured financing to, or invest in equity or debt securities of, healthcare operators or other entities engaged in healthcare real estate ownership. We may also acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, operating companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment strategies. We may co-invest alongside institutional or development investors through partnerships or limited liability companies.

We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment vehicle or geographic location, the number of properties that may be leased to a single tenant or operator, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. In allocating capital to our multiple segments, we target









opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for our portfolio as a whole. We may take additional measures to mitigate risk, including diversifying our investments (by sector, geography, tenant or operator), structuring transactions as master leases, requiring tenant or operator insurance and indemnifications, and obtaining credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits.

We believe we are well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions, financing and development. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



·our reputation gained through nearly 30 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;

·our relationships with leading healthcare operators, private equity firms, corporations, non-profits and public institutions seeking to monetize existing assets or develop new facilities;

·our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality healthcare real estate assets;

·our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing due to the strength of our experienced management team and balance sheet liquidity;

·our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions responsively and efficiently, whichprovides confidence to domestic and foreign institutions and private investors who seek to sell healthcare real estate in our market areas;

·our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the healthcare and real estate industries; and

·our control of sites (includingassets under contractwith radius restrictions).

Financing Strategies

Because our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains), we regularly access the public equity and debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions and debt investments, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt.

We may finance acquisitions and other investments through the following vehicles:

·issuance of common or preferred stock;

·issuance or origination of debt, including unsecured notes and mortgage debt;

·borrowings under our credit facility; or

·sale of ownership interests in properties or other investments.

We maintain a disciplined balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of credit facility, access to capital markets and secured debt lenders, relationships with current and prospective institutional joint venture partners, and our ability to divest of assets. Our debt obligations are primarily long-term fixed rate with staggered maturities, which reduces the impact of rising interest rates on our operations.

We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering equity and debt securities, placing mortgage debt and obtaining capital from institutional lenders.















Competition

Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment companies, pension funds, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater flexibility (e.g., non-REIT competitors), resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete may also be impacted by global, national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation and population trends.

Income from our investments is dependent on the ability of ourtenants and operatorsto compete with other companies on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, success of product or drug development, the physical appearance of a facility, price and range of services offered, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, the size and demographics of the population in surrounding areas, and the financial condition of our tenants and operators. Private, federal and state payment programs, and government reimbursement, as well as the effect of laws and regulations, may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. For a discussion of the risks associated with competitive conditions affecting our business, see “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.

Healthcare Segments

Senior housing.At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 479 senior housing facilities, including 14 properties owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our senior housing facilities are primarily triple-net leased and include independent living facilities (“ILFs”), assisted living facilities (“ALFs”), memory care facilities (“MCFs”),care homes, and continuing care retirement communities (“CCRCs”), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. Services provided by our tenants or operators in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our senior housing property types are further described below:

·Independent Living Facilities.ILFs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded socially by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living (“ADL”). However, in some of our facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2014, we had interests in64ILFs.

·Assisted Living Facilities.ALFs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL, such as bathing, eating, dressing and medication management, yet require limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may dedicate a portion of a facility that offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of Alzheimer’s disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 345 ALFs.

·Memory Care Facilities.MCFs address the unique challenges of our residents with Alzheimer’s disease or other forms of dementia. Residents may live in semi-private apartments or private rooms and have structured activities delivered by staff members trained specifically on how to care for residents with memory impairment. These facilities offer programs that provide comfort and care in a secure environment for residents with memory loss issues in comfortable settings. At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 21 MCFs.

·Care Homes (United Kingdom).Care homes offer personal care services, such as lodging, meal services, housekeeping and laundry services, medication management and assistance with ADL. Care homes are registered to provide different levels of services, ranging from personal care to nursing care. Some homes can be further registered for a specific care need, such as dementia or terminal illness. At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 23 care homes.









·Continuing Care Retirement Communities.CCRCs offer several levels of assistance, including independent living, assisted living and nursing home care. CCRCs are different from other housing and care options for seniors because they usually provide written agreements or long-term contracts between residents and the communities (frequently lasting the term of the resident's lifetime), which offer a continuum of housing, services and healthcare on one campus or site. CCRCs are appealing as they allow residents to “age in place.”  CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 26 CCRCs.

Our senior housing segment accounted for approximately 39%, 36% and 33% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following table provides information about our senior housing tenant/operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2014:



Percentage ofPercentage ofTenants/OperatorsSegment RevenuesTotal RevenuesBrookdale Senior Living, Inc. (“Brookdale”)(1)37%14%HCR ManorCare, Inc. (“HCRMC”)(2)8%26%



(1)On July 31, 2014, Brookdale completed its acquisition of Emeritus Corporation (“Emeritus”). Percentages of segment and total revenues presented are prepared on a pro forma basis to reflect the combined concentration for Brookdale and Emeritus, as if the merger had occurred as of the beginning of 2014. On August 29, 2014, HCP and Brookdale amended or terminated all former leases with Emeritus and entered into two RIDEA joint ventures (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the Brookdale Transaction). Percentages do not include senior housing facilities that Brookdale manages (is not a tenant) under a RIDEA structure.

(2)Percentage of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to HCRMC.

We have entered into long-term agreements with Brookdale to manage properties that are operated under a structure permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (commonly referred to as “RIDEA”). Under the provisions of RIDEA, a REIT may lease a “qualified healthcare property” on an arm’s length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”), if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.”

RIDEA structures allow us to own the risks and rewards of the operations of healthcare facilities (as compared to leasing the property for contractual triple-net rents) in a tax efficient manner.

We view RIDEA as a structure primarily to be used on properties that present attractive valuation entry points and/or growth profiles by: (i) transitioning the asset to a new operator that can bring scale, operating efficiencies, and/or ancillary services; or (ii) investing capital to reposition the asset. Brookdale provides comprehensive facility management and accounting services with respect to our senior housing RIDEA properties, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to the aforementioned agreements. Most of the management agreements have terms ranging from 10 to 15 years, with 5-year renewals. The base management fees are 4.5% to 5.0% of gross revenues (as defined) generated by the RIDEA facilities. In addition, there are incentive management fees payable to Brookdale if operating results of the RIDEA properties exceed pre-established EBITDAR (as defined) thresholds. As of January 1, 2015, 83 properties are under RIDEA structures, 14 of which are owned by our CCRC unconsolidated joint venture (discussed below in Item 7).

Post-acute/skilled nursing.At December 31, 2014, we had interests in 301 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”). SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for people following a hospital stay or not requiring the more extensive and complex treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic therapy, as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain SNFs provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. Post-acute/skilled nursing services provided by ourtenants and operatorsin these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations or “HMOs”) or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are triple-net leased.











Our post-acute/skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 27%, 29% and 29% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following table provides information about our post-acute/skilled nursingtenant/operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2014:



Percentage ofPercentage ofTenants/OperatorsSegment RevenuesTotal RevenuesHCR ManorCare, Inc. (“HCRMC”)(1)85%26%



(1)Percentage of total revenues includes revenues earned from both senior housing and post-acute/skilled nursing facilities leased to HCRMC.

Life science.At December 31, 2014, we had interests in and managed 115 life science properties, including four facilities owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives.

Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research, including San Francisco and San Diego, California, Salt Lake City, Utah, Durham, North Carolina and Boston, Massachusetts. At December 31, 2014, 97% of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet).

Our life science segment accounted for approximately 14%, 14% and 15% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2014:

Percentage ofPercentage ofTenantsSegment RevenuesTotal RevenuesGenentech, Inc.18%3%Amgen, Inc.17%2%



Medical office.At December 31, 2014, we had interests in and managed 281 medical office buildings (“MOBs”), including 66 facilities owned by our significant unconsolidated joint ventures. MOBs typically contain physicians’ offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain vaults or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 79% of our MOBs, based on square feet, located on hospital campuses and 94% are affiliated with hospital systems. At December 31, 2014, 48% of our medical office buildings were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet).











Our medical office segment accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following table provides information about our medical office tenant/operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2014:



Percentage ofPercentage ofTenants/OperatorsSegment RevenuesTotal RevenuesHCA(1)16%4%



(1)Percentage of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments.

Hospital.At December 31, 2014, we had interests inand managed20 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Services provided by ourtenants and operatorsin these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs) or through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. All of our hospitals are triple-net leased.

Our hospital segment accounted for approximately 4%, 4% and 5% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following table provides information about our hospital tenant/operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2014:



Percentage ofPercentage ofTenants/OperatorsSegment RevenuesTotal RevenuesHCA(1)28%4%Tenet Healthcare Corporation27%1%



(1)Percentage of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments.

Sustainability

We believe that sustainability initiatives are a vital part of corporate responsibility, which supports our primary goal of increasing stockholder value through profitable growth. We continue to advance our commitment to sustainability, with a focus on achieving goals in each of the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) dimensions of sustainability.

Our environmental management programs strive to capture cost efficiencies that ultimately benefit our investors, tenants, operators and employees, while making a positive impact on the communities in which we operate. Our social responsibility team leads our local philanthropic and volunteer activities, and our transparent corporate governance initiatives incorporate sustainability as a critical component to achieving our business objectives and properly managing risks.

Our 2014 sustainability achievements include being named Global Healthcare Sector Leader by the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) and named to the FTSE4Good Index series, each for the third consecutive year. Additionally, we were named toCDP’s S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the North American region, each for the second consecutive year.For additional information regarding our sustainability initiatives, please visit our website at www.hcpi.com/sustainability.

Insurance

We obtain various types of insurance to mitigate the impact of property, business interruption, liability, flood, windstorm, earthquake, environmental and terrorism related losses. We attempt to obtain appropriate policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles considering the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as those due to acts of war or other events that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. In addition, we have a large number of properties that are exposed to earthquake, flood and windstorm occurrences for which the related insurances carry higher deductibles.

We maintain property insurance for all of our properties and this insurance is primary for our medical office, life science and RIDEA facilities. Tenants under triple-net leases, primarily in our senior housing, post-acute/skilled nursing and









hospital segments, are required to provide primary property, business interruption and liability insurance. We maintain separate general and professional liability insurance for our RIDEA facilities. Additionally, our corporate general and professional liability insurance program also extends coverage for all of our properties beyond the aforementioned. Under our management agreements with Brookdale, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Brookdale will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

Employees of HCP

At December 31, 2014, we had 170 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement

Overview

Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations relating to quality of care, licensure and certificate of need, government reimbursement, fraud and abuse practices, and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities, and we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. These regulations are wide ranging and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving regulatory environment because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the laws may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws, regulations, reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.

Based on information primarily provided by our tenants and operators, excluding our medical office segment, at December 31, 2014, we estimate that approximately 15% and 14% of the annualized base rental payments received from our tenants and operators were dependent on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, respectively.

The following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators, and in certain cases, to us.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

qui tam

or “whistleblower” actions. Many of our

tenants and operators

are subject to these laws, and may become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to comply with applicable laws.











Reimbursement

Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among others, governmental healthcare programs, such as the federal Medicare programs and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental third-party payors, such as insurance carriers and HMOs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform initiatives, and as the federal government and many states face significant current and future budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants and operators. Additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs, including but not limited to Medicare Advantage, Dual Eligible, Accountable Care Organizations (“ACO”), and Bundled Payments could adversely impact our tenants’ and operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.

Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need

Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. In addition, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need, which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion or closure of certain healthcare facilities. The approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants’ and operators’ abilities to expand or change their businesses.

Life Science Facilities

While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other tenants are less established and, in some cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration, or other regulatory authorities, for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and capital, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.

Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities

Certain of our senior housing facilities are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility’s financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters.

Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”)

Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect.

Environmental Matters

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve a myriad of regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and any related liability therefore









could exceed or impair the value of the property and/or the assets. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our earnings. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report.

Available Information

Our website address iswww.hcpi.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Current copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Vendor Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.hcpi.com. In addition, waivers from, and amendments to, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to our directors and executive officers, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions, will be timely posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.hcpi.com.

